ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13851	... gentlemen, honourable representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 41st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests, as representatives of international and non-governmental organisations, are invited to attend the session, accompanied by the work of the House. As you know, we regularly invite the presidents and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairmans and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Council of Europe, the Monitoring Mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. To discuss the report on the review of certain BiH institutions for 2003, a representative of the BiH Financial Audit Office was also invited to attend the meeting. All guest guests, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the Embassy, as well as representatives of the Red Cross, whose representatives are also warmly welcomed here today. According to the Service report, I find the session currently holds 35 representatives, 23 from the Federation, 12 from Republika Srpska. We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. They are officially absent: Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo and Mr Nikola Špirić. Mr Jović is in Parliament's building and we need to join in any moment. So, Mr. Jusufović and Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović also announced their absence. You ladies and gentlemen have received an updated draft agenda. Yesterday we had a session of the Extended College and, with the agreement of the club presidents, i.e. on the original agenda, the draft agenda was complemented by six requests from the Council of Ministers and the procedure under Article 104 and by including, also points of agreement for the appointment of the Chief Auditor of the Office for the Review of Financial Disposal of BiH institutions. This is the addition agreed on by the Extended College compared to the previously delivered agenda. I think that it is justified to include these points at the request of the Council of Ministers, given that it is a preocectura, and also to appoint a chief auditor, given the need for all institutions to function in full capacity. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank all the representatives and to conclude that the 41st session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 2 1. Records from the 37th and 38th sessions of the House, 2nd. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross, Cross, by a hasty procedure, pursuant to Article 104. 4. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing an independent system operator in BiH, 6. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the same text: a) Law establishing the Institute of Measurement, the Metrology of BiH, (b) Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH, 7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, in accordance with Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Statistics of BiH, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10. Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the proposal for a food law, also under procedure 104. Rules of Procedure, 11. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a market surveillance law, also under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 12. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on technical requirements for products and to assess compliance under Article 104. 13. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a General Product Safety Act, also referred to in Article 104, 14. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Compassionation, also by procedure of Article 104. 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, first reading, 16. Proposal for a law of the Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in BiH, also first reading, 17. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Foreign and Trade Policy of BiH, also first reading, 18. Proposal for a law on the insurance agency for forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property, Proposer Jozo Križanović, with the notice of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 19. Report by the Office for Auditing the Business Audit of the BiH Presidency for 2003, 20. Report of the Office for Auditing BiH Institutions for 2003, 21. Proposal for a Council of Ministers' Opinion, adopted to consider the conclusions of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, 22. Information on the state of security of BiH, applicant for the Council of Ministers, 23. Giving consent to the appointment of the Chief Auditor of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office, 24. Granting consent to ratify the Convention for the establishment of a European and Mediterranean plant protection organisation. Thank you very much once again and we're moving on to point one. 3 Ad.1. Records from the 27th and 38th session of the House of Representatives you received in time. I'm opening a discussion on the 37th and 38th sessions. There's no one around the record. I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement at the same time, since there were no objections about the records from the 37th and 38th session of the House of Commons. I ask the MPs to vote for the record. Vote now. So, I agree unanimously with 36 votes for, accepted the minutes from the 37th and 38th session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. We're moving on to point two. Ad.2. In the meantime, parliamentary questions and answers were answered, to remind you: Mr. Adem Huskić, the question he asked at the 31st session of the House, Mrs. Ruža Sopta and Martin Raguž, to the questions they asked at the 32nd session. Mr. Nijaz Duraković questioned at the 36th session, Mrs. Sead Palavrić asked the question at the 38th session of the House. Do MPs have comments on the answer? Mr. Huskić. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13852	I've asked a full-scale question, I've only got one small part of the answer, which, let's say I'm satisfied, but most of the question has remained unresponsible, can be said that I've partially received the answer, not entirely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13853	Thank you very much. I would also comment on the short response I received from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13854	The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13855	So I asked the Council of Ministers at the 32nd session, and in view of the large and huge floods that took place in Popovo Polje, I asked the Council of Ministers to answer whether there is an appropriate legal regulation at BiH level and whether the Council of Ministers of the Peco Institutions and the organisation has instruments to manage water resources in BiH. The answer I received partially meets the content of the asked question and announces that the Council of Ministers will come out this fall with a proposal for legislation, so that at BiH level, all the challenges, not just preventing floods, but using water resources can be answered in a certain way. But I have to say, the damage that happened there was, indeed, great and they weren't just in Pop's Field. In that part of the year, there was damage throughout BiH, but what I cannot accept in that part of the response is said to be responsible for the management of the trebišnjica hidroelektran plant in Bilja was fully in accordance with the prescribed standards and procedures and that no responsibility can be found at the hydropower plant administration, when it is known that the drop of water in those days was at least 7 to 8 times as much as it can handle the planned and concrete part of the Trebišica River and I think it is indeed not appropriate to respond in that part. But what I don't think the Council of Ministers still recognizes is the need to deal with the issue of water management at BiH level, and not with it, but also with Mr Duraković's 4 issues regarding the above horizons. I asked the same question. All the answers that have been so far do not point to the fact that BiH institutions are capable of dealing with challenges that may have more serious consequences, no matter what part of BiH's territory. In any entity that we do not have quality information, that we do not have a qualitative analysis, to the extent that this will leave clues to the perspective of life at all in those spaces, and all I can at this point say as a representative is that we expect the proposal of this legislation to come, that this House will have the strength to open one more quality discussion of all these important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13856	I thank Mr. Raguž. Here you go, Sopta Ruža. Who else has it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13857	Anyone who wants to comment doesn't have to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13858	I'm partially satisfied with the answer, because the answer is part of it. Namely, I asked the question. What are the effects of the Council of Ministers' decision to personalize customs duties on imports, partially and completely decommissioned vehicles, parts of the vehicle, I don't know how to tell Foncfagen and I got the answer, not for the entire period, but for three years, and that is just what the effects of the release are, without responding to the part where I said what predictions are in the future. Well, here, I have seven and a half million effects of customs release in three years from 2000 to 2003, and the forecast that I could have taken out and, if the sample was very small, based on a month and a half in 2004, about 4 million would have been an effect in this year and the following years. That would be positive for me, if that were the budget, if that was the state's decision, or Parliament or the Council of Ministers, to intervene with seven and a half million, so that it is known. It is noted here that the company Folksfagen has reinvested its profits in all these years, it would be very interesting to see how much this profit is, whether it is greater than or less than seven and a half million, because seven and a half million countries automatically intervened on the increase in that profit, that is, with this release. And, second of all, I did a little checking that at least the effects of this release of customs to the public had their echoes well. Namely, vehicles, with no regard and those from Germany, which are also decorated from Sarajevo which are not decorated, i.e. the exemption of customs duties on the market, are the same price. I think we're playing hide-and-seek here. Someone is investing in profit, which the state essentially gave him out of the budget in one way or another, and the effects on the citizens are not the same. I think it'd be interesting for the next time to get this second part of the answer and the answer to how much profit was invested by Foncfaten.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13859	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13860	I wanted to comment on the President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, in fact, on the discussion of the President-in-Office, Mr Raguž. I would remind this House of what Mr. Raguž was saying back then, I don't know for a month, when it happened, that it was an extension of war by other means, as far as I can see, I don't know if it's decadent. I think that these are too strong words and that after receiving such a report that has come to answer this question, Mr Raguž should apologize for these words, not to politicise this issue in the direction of the Parliament's appeal that he has 5 understandings transferred to jurisdiction, etc. This is about a concrete issue, and Parliament should not be used for these purposes, using policy issues. I think that's how it's supposed to be done and I'm not a fan, really, to react like this. You shouldn't use too strong words in this House. It's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13861	He has a need for the chairman to respond to this replica, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13862	I accept the suggestion that we don't use too strong words, but Mr. Kunić, I suggest we consult a stenogram. I know exactly what I said. I was the day after that flood on the spot. Perhaps you should have gone, too, to see how the people who had spent after ten years, after everything was burned back there, after having their own resources and their own work without any help, arranged the orchards and opened their perspectives of life, irresponsiblely acting, responsibly hard, irresponsible actions of the people who managed the water resources, their whole work and their return and perspectives were questioned. And for me, it's a fact, you know, if it's '91. They had to be removed from that space by war, was it logical that in the 21st century, here when we're renewing life, they had to be brought to think about going, and every man there who consulted me told me that he was thinking about going after everything, and I asked if the consequences could be talked about and the fact that the war continues with some other means. I asked the question, I did not claim, but I accept that we are not going to this debate and leave me to give one assessment of whether I am satisfied with the answer or not when it comes to the Council of Ministers' response to the overall water availability situation, water resources. I still think that I am wrong, I may be wrong, I allow that I am wrong, but I believe that at BiH level, whether it is a transfer of powers or not, or a co-ordination role, or that entities give their consent a dimension. There are no mechanisms and instruments to manage responsibly and that this has really significant consequences for people's lives and for, in general, BiH's development.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13863	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13864	Mr. Kunić, then Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13865	Sir, do you understand what the BiH institutions are doing? Entity institutions are BiH institutions. And they're not other people's. They're not out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13866	Well, I do, but they don't do blue people, which I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13867	Please take care of the Constitution when you speak. You chair this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13868	Mrs. Milićević, please. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13869	I, too, want to comment on this story. First, to correct you, the headquarters of the power plants in Trebišnica is not in Trebinj, and with us it is flooded from the source of Trebišica to Trebinj, so the lake was built. And we're flooded, and there's hydropower plants down there. Secondly, I think that all the technical calculations and indicators that show that they were not selective floods were nicely delivered because Agrokop and all the properties in Pop's Field were flooded. That the amount of rainfall was disproportionate and the size of the lake of accumulation and dam and that it was handled in accordance with the given circumstances or were to shoot the dam and go to Trebinje and Dubrovnik all, meaning it was done in accordance with the given circumstances. At the same time, probably without the influence of the people of Herzegovina, they swam Vrbas, Sana, Sava, I think whether it was our will or the higher power, but I think it was very important to say that they weren't selectively carried out and that they weren't individual villages if a wave of my people came along, so it can't be managed to make one blue, the other, I don't think it's equally sorry for all people, and I hope that there'll be a way for those people to decompose. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13870	I thank Mrs. Mililćević. Any further comments? If not, I conclude this part, these agenda points, and we move on to the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Mrs. Milićević, Mr. Bešlagić, Avdić, Moranjkić, Đurković, Belkić, Džaferović, Mišić. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13871	My question concerns the way the Election Commission and the CIPS project treats the name of the municipality of Berkovici? Namely, what it's about. The introduction of the CIPS project and the current memos of the Election Commission, named the municipality of Berkovici, is called Stolac through Berkovici. In June 1996, the municipality of Berkovići and the Law on Territorial Organisation and Local Self-Government, the Official Messenger of the Republic of RS, was declared in the June 1996. The municipality of Berkovici is said to be on the list of municipalities in RS. Now we have a situation, therefore, that the documents of the CIPS project and this to be written by the Stolac through Berkovici. The citizens are justifiably dissatisfied. Other municipalities, which were also in the form of other municipalities, such as before the war. Straightly, they have the name Straight, and Berković was added the name Stolac through Berkovici. The issue also concerns the Council of Ministers, the CIPS project and the Election Commission. That's the first question. I'm referring the second question to the Department of Defense. These days there was a current situation, and the media was very used that the children, who served in the Federation Army, were said not to have enough food, that the funds were not provided, that they would be able to receive new recruits, so we found out, so there's no possibility that the new class of children would serve their military deadline, so we also found out, that, in fact, it became clear to me now why the kids were hitching off on Fridays, going home when I got out of here, that there was not enough food for those children. So, it's not secure, and then I read in the paper that these funds are only 6% of the BiH Ministry's budget. So, that information, if it's correct, I'm building on it, I'm asking. Can they provide funds for these children who serve the army as prescribed by the law to be fed, too, as the issue is also prescribed by law. Did the Department of Defense gentlemen and the professional army regularly receive their salaries and warm meals? Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13872	Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević. Does, according to this order, have Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13873	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will ask three questions, but they are specific questions. It won't be long. First question. Railways in the Tuzla Canton area have reached pre-war capacity in the transport of goods. The question is, why isn't anything invested in their reconstruction, in order to increase the economy of this company? And, b. Why is it not requested that the Banovići-Tuzla railway – Brcko – Vinkovci is not declared a corridor and thus provides sources and funding? I'm asking for a written response from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Second question. Since 1999, construction of a customs terminal has started in Tuzla since the publication of the competition. The term was completed this year and there are 3,500 m2 of closed space other than 15,000 metres of square surface area under the asphalt. It is made available to the Customs Office of Tuzla, which has been notified by all authorities from the Ministry and the Council of Ministers to the Directorate for Direct Taxation. The question is, why is it waiting to use these capacities or rather, why is customs in Tuzla still working in unconditional areas? I'm asking for a unique answer from the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. Third question. On 18.06.2004, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia informed of a new regime of travel with BiH, according to which border crossings can be set, at which goods from the Republic of Croatia can be admitted to BiH, which are crossing points: Villani Donji, Strumica and Stara Gradiška. The reasons for these measures are that at these crossings there are... scales for weighing loads. Question. Why didn't the list find the most modern international crossing of the Parish-Ores, on which is the most modern road route? I seek the answer in writing from the Foreign Ministry Strategy and Economic Relations and Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13874	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13875	... dear guests, I have an initiative and one conclusion, attitude, whatever you want. And the initiative is to urge the BiH presidency to propose a review and adoption of a border agreement, agreed at the level of state commissions from between the two countries, for the next session of the Interstate Council for Co-operation between Serbia-Montenegro and BiH. I'd say this is a strategic interest in both of them, and that, on one hand, there are no more problems around the border. It means that interstate commissions have agreed on the border line, so that the agreement should simply be considered at the first session, the next session of the Interstate Council, and the possible adoption of ratification by both states. I think that would be good. That's one. Two. Earlier, at last session, 14 MPs signed a request for a thematic session with the OHR and with a high representative. This was the need for an emergency session, because 8 meetings were scheduled for the Istanbul Summit, a Partnership for Peace and all that characterized, simple plans for BiH's future. Turns out the session wasn't scheduled. You know very well that the 47th members of 47th and 48th. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure obliges the session to be scheduled within the next ten days. If it's not done, then it's scheduled by the vice president. I would pray, we will not be dramatic, we do not have the need, but it would be good if in writing, for the last time, I ask you, that the College should make a request to the OHR to reflect the thematic, joint session with the Parliamentary House of BiH and, in this context, to seek the OHR's statement, whether, simply in such a form, to animate co-operation with Parliament and, simply, to discuss these issues, concerning the present and future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13876	I thank Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13877	Mr President-in-Office, I would like the Commission for Finance and the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to inform this House about the costs of official travel, as well as the costs of a national and foreign team in six months. I seek the answer to this question in writing and shown costs individually per person.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13878	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13879	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions referred to the Council of Ministers. First question. When the Council of Ministers will approach the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore, both homes since 23.01.2004 and their conclusion since 19.02.2004, both concern the establishment of a truth-search committee on events in Sarajevo since '92. '95.? I recall, the Council of Ministers supported the parliamentary assembly's conclusion at its 41st session, but has so far not realised the conclusion. Second question. Is there a problem with the controversial citizenship of a number of BiH citizens? Or if there is, how does the Council of Ministers feel about solving this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13880	I thank Mrs Jelina Đurković. The word is Dr. Milorad Živković, so Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13881	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it says so. Please provide me with a list of BiH institutions and their centres, as well as proposals for those institutions that need to be formed by the end of the year. In fact, on several occasions in this House, we spent a lot of time on the issue of a centre for individual institutions, and we know that 24 should be passed. I think it would be good and instructed that the representatives of this Parliament have proposals for these institutions and places where they will be, so that we can speed up these discussions or that we can hold a debate before that, so as not to waste time in Parliament. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13882	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13883	I have two questions. The first issue is the BiH Agency for the Excise Service and Entity Agency, which reads. Why competitions for working relations in state authorities are required to apply for documents that are a condition for establishing a working relationship. For example, a medical conviction costing 50 km is required, valid for six months. There is a need for conviction that they are not under investigation and, look at this, a conviction is required that they are not being indicted by the Hague. It's wanted by people who run for interns, people who are 20, 22 and 23. So, those people who were ten years old when the war was over. All of this costs and questions are why it is asked of those who only apply to the competition, and not those who, eventually, enter a narrow choice, etc. I think this is a question that deserves attention and a reaction. It's more about correcting these illogicalities and these administrative obstacles. The second question is for our delegation, i.e. the chairman, we have differed a little, the delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Namely, that's what it says. What has she concluded or decided or launched as an initiative by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at the last June session on the BiH Constitution? We have read, had the opportunity to hear the statements of some members of the chairman at some party meetings, etc. on some events at the last session, and I think it would be my turn for MPs in this House to get a written report on what was going on at the last session. Thank you very much. I'm talking about the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13884	I thank Mr. Belkić. I think all MPs should get a report and a resolution as documents and as far as I know in the procedure is a preparation for, possibly a point of the agenda, where competent information would be obtained at the House. We're moving on. Mr. Džaferović, and let Mr. Mišić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13885	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my question, that is, the request is. It is necessary for the Ministry of Human Rights, refugees, immigration and asylum to determine what the situation is regarding the right of returnees to health care. I think all the evasive and displaced faces that have returned to their homes should have free health care. In this direction, I propose amendments and additions to the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons. According to the information I have, these rights are different from the middle to the middle. In some areas, this is right and denied. I believe that this must be evened across the territory of the BiH state and that returnees have the right to free health care. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13886	Thank you. Mr. Mišić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13887	Fellow MPs, we all travel a lot, I don't know in BiH if there's one tunnel that's lit up. If there is, I apologize. In that sense, my question is. When the Ministry of Transport and Communications, in co-operation with the ministries of traffic and connections of the RS and the Federation of BiH, will do something to illuminate the tunnels in BiH, which are not large investments in relation to some projects in those ministries, and according to current data from the MUPs, on all levels and statistics, that the car accidents that occur in the tunnels in BiH, bring many deaths, and where there is a major impact on the irradiation of the tunnel. I request a written reply from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13888	Thank you very much, Mr. Mišić. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the question is brief. I hope the answer is short. Namely, what has the cantonal interior ministry done, and what has the BiH Ministry of the Interior, in connection with the relentless events in Tuzla, attempted to mark the anniversary of the vandal attack on a column of soldiers of the then JNA? Have the perpetrators been identified and have any reports been filed? I refer the issue to the BiH Ministry of Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13890	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13891	I have two questions. One question for the foreign minister and the presidency. In fact, you could hear about ten days ago from the funds of informing that the foreign minister was in Croatia and that in talks with Croatian Prime Minister Sanader it was found that Luka ploča, or an agreement between BiH and Luke Ploče, is at one stage, which, knowing what the diplomatic dictionary means, means that we are stuck. Or that there's nothing to it. So I'm asking you to answer the question. When will the protocol and the ratification of the agreement with the Republic of Croatia on Luka Ploče be signed? What is the timetable for the activities and role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and Parliament in this process? And, I ask that what is more urgent in front of us, because it is unacceptable for such capital changes to be made in relations between friendly and neighbouring countries, I think that the capital change which is seen from the shrub statement is that Croatia has no intention of ratifying this agreement and I think that we should carry out an appropriate discussion in Parliament, i.e. let the Minister of Foreign Affairs assure me that this will be done. That's the first question. So, I think the public needs to know that there's nothing out of it. That our presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers brought the matter to a standstill. Which I have, therefore, I would ask the answer to get an emergency, so that, I call, I appeal to the Foreign Minister, I ask for nothing by the Rules of Procedure, I appeal to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to come out for this pay phone at the next session, if he can tell us what this is about. I think this is a dramatic question for the future of BiH's economy. 11 Second question, I think it's for this room. Why different parliamentary committees are allowed to send only representatives of the ruling parties frequently. I'm going to set a concrete example. So, I'm not on any of that committee and I shouldn't have gone. So, but I think it is inadmissible that at meetings, let's say, in front of the neighbours, parliamentary for European integration, at a meeting with the leaders of the European Parliament, the relevant institutions, that the Commission, as part of representatives of the SDA, HDZ and the SDS. I'll set an example, Mr. Chairman. We are coming into absurd situations, that there are positions in front of this House that do not reflect the position of this Parliament. We are even in a position for the leaders of European parameters to criticise the international community, and that our leaders of the ruling parties are the defences. It's not a general matter of this House, so I'd like to ask you to give us a report on this, so that some order can be put in place in all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13892	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. As regards this second issue, the College has given one task that, when it comes to the external-political activities of the members of this House, it is up to the end of the year and in terms of priorities and in terms of rationalisation and certainly that it can find a place in this context and your question of the representation of the entire political spectrum in Parliament when it comes, especially to relevant international institutions and organisations. And, look, I hope we give one satisfactory, meaningful answer. I don't have any more reports. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I conclude, Mr. Petar Kunić. I didn't see you, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13893	Chairman, it's my fault, it's not you. Oh, about this question, Mr. Lagumdžija. Namely, there's a review of travel to the Insane. We have an individual traveling nine times, and we have individuals who don't even have a list. Is the Kolegijum, are they making, are they customs, is it so that only the representatives of the College travel, and that the MPs do not travel, abroad and there, depends on how who. I was suggested by Mr. Raguž for Brussels, I'm sorry I couldn't go, I'd be on this list, otherwise I'm not on the list, and if you have four, five, six times, nine times, etc. It seems to me, that individuals simply adopt and travel, they seem to have no measure. Where the measure is lost, it's not good, it's disruptive relations. So I'd like to ask that within the framework of this plan, the College make some travel plans and favor the people who have not traveled so far. I'm the president of a commission, which in some way by the nature of things, by the business I'm doing, I should go a little bit, but there's no activity involved. Please do something to make us all equal in this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13894	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. I've already said that the College itself has initiated a review to ensure all the important elements of functioning, the external functioning of this home, but that, as you have just referred me to one suggestion, so do I to you, to give such assessments as you have given, you should know in what function certain people have gone to and where, because somewhere it's not about whether you're a member of the College or a member of this party but whether you're elected to an institution. And as a member of the College, I am a member of the Council of Europe, and I can tell you that I only went to those obligations of the institutions that are scheduled to join that council. And, I don't think I've abused the position of a member of the Kolegli, and I've failedly fulfilled my duties as 12 as a man who's been delegated from this home to the competent institutions. And for others, I can't comment, and I think we should have one relevant review, a plan, but there's a suggestion that all MPs get involved in foreign-political activities and, in particular, there's a suggestion that the opposition must be represented on all relevant external-political activities of this home. Here, so much I can say and on behalf of the College, I can take the responsibility to prepare one plan and travel schedule based on your suggestions and suggestions from Mr. Lagumdzija. Is there more? If it doesn't, I'll close the second item of the agenda. I thank all the MPs for the questions they've asked. We're going to the third point. Ad.3. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross by an urgent procedure, Article 104. Working as a Commission, the College agreed on this request, and pursuant to Article 65(3) of the House and I agree that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers, and the proposal for a law on the Red Cross/Cross Society is being considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 and the basis of this decision, it has been designated as the competent Constitutional and Legal Commission to consider this request by the Council of Ministers and this proposal for a further procedure. Is there a need for a debate? I have informed representatives of the Red Cross, but they are here today, when the debate is both on the Commission and on the House, the door is open and you can give your opinion. I'm closing this point, point 3. Moving to point 4. Ad.4. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina We received a report from the Joint Commission on 6th of this month. You saw the Commission agree with the proposal for a law on a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopting 11 amendments. I'm opening a debate on this report. Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13895	Here, I'm just going to say for a moment that this is really one of the few laws, and this next one, when it comes to an independent system operator, who's spent a lot of time and effort and really every single one at his level has done a lot to get to these two laws, so did this joint commission, agreed and all the amendments of our home were adopted. So I suggest we pass this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13896	Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13897	I would like to point out that I, that I did not receive this law in Serbian and Cyrillic and that it was not the only material I did not receive in my own language and in my letter. I ask you to keep this in mind in the future, otherwise the SDS Club MPs will not attend the agenda points at which they have not received material in their language and in their letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13898	I thank Mr. Novaković. Are there any more logs? There isn't. I am finalising the debate on the joint commission's report, and I ask the representatives to make their statement on the joint commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote now. I find that the House with 32 votes for, without votes against and with 1 abstention, accepted the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as the law was passed. I thank the MPs. We're going to the fifth point. Ad.5. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing an independent transmission system operator in BiH has agreed on the proposal for this law by adopting six amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13899	I wish I was wrong. We will support the adoption of this report, etc. But, you see, a man's been looking at the name of this law for months, etc. And only now do I notice that there is no word of electricity at all. You don't know what this law applies to. In the name. Look at the name. How are we gonna fix this? I think we should fix this, too. There's nothing to say. Which system and what areas. In the very name of the law, very illogical. Or later to intervene with changes and additions, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13900	The second thing you suggested, Mr. Belkić. The suggestion is absolutely justified and I think we need it, but this law is significant and I don't think we can question it right now. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to hear about this report? He doesn't want to. I am finalising the debate and I am asking the representatives to make a statement by voting on the report of the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing an independent operator. Please vote now. With 33 votes in favour, 2 against, without abstentions and enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has adopted a joint committee report on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. We're going to point six. Ad.6.The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the same text: a) Law on the establishment of the Institute for Measurement, the muralology of BiH, b) Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH These laws have been adopted in various texts in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. At an extended college yesterday, it agreed that Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mrs Ruža Sopta, were proposed for three members of this home. 14 Can we make a statement about this proposal? Or are there other suggestions? I suggest we not comment but vote on this proposal. I'm asking the House to plead. Vote now. I agree that we have unanimously, without votes against and without abstentions, accepted that for three members of the joint committee of both homes, in order to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law establishing the Institute of Metrology and the Law establishing the Institute of Standardisation, Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mrs Ruža Sopta are named. I thank the MPs. Moving to point 7. Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for Law to Parliament were delivered to 17.6 when it was forwarded to lawmakers. It is a statement for the procedure referred to in Article 105. I'm opening the debate, first of all, on the request of the Council of Ministers. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the request of the Council of Ministers, that this law be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Please vote now. I agree that the House of Representatives unanimously with 36 votes in favour, accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration under procedure 105. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House of Representatives to declare by voting on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration. Vote now. With 38 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration. Thank you. We're going to the 8th point. Ad.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. We received the law in 29.06. you were sent in 1.07. and I am opening a debate on the request for a procedure under Article 105. No sign-ins. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this draft law and amendments to the Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina under procedure 105. Vote now. unanimously with 37 votes in favour, the Council of Ministers has accepted a request to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Act in accordance with procedure 105. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13901	I'm missing some special options, given the content and capacity of these changes, which are offered, something special to say, but I want to say something about the explanation of the proposed changes. I have talked about it before and asked the College and the Proposer to state in full the members that change, etc. and a little clearer and reasoned explanation of why change and supplementation is necessary. Take a closer look at this explanation, and you'll see how people explain why they're doing this. We want to say that we have three people, three different nations, that we have the representation of all the peoples, etc., and not talk about it is an important law on statistics, etc. So we need it or we don't need it, and then we say down there it won't cause any financial costs, so of course it will. So I'm really also giving the promoter some kind of criticism, and I hope that these people, who are in the preparation of these materials, will really appreciate it. We don't mind, because it's a very important law on statistics and we'll support it, etc., but we need to be correct and fair about what the reasons for the changes and supplements are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13902	I thank Mr. Belkić. Ms. Ljiljana Milićević, Mr. Petar Kunić, Mrs. Mililćević, spoke earlier, Mr. Kunić, he's right, I apologize. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13903	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, namely, it is unacceptable to accept the proposal for this law proposed by the Council of Ministers. If anyone needs to protect the legality and constitutionality of the BiH institutions, then it is the Council of Ministers as the holder of the executive authority. However, the Council of Ministers obviously forgets the procedures foreseen for the adoption of such a law. This parliament is not in charge of bringing together the ombudsman entities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13904	Nothing, it's all right. Mr. Kunić sometimes goes ahead of time. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13905	I'd still like to talk about statistics. I think the esteemed colleague Belkić stands, but it says that the least important reasons are that in fact, here it is most important that this law goes as quickly as possible. The reason why we will see today in point 13 when we will have a report from the Statistics Audit Office and we will see what a house in which we have no director, no management and what a negative opinion of the Audit Office looks like. So, at least there's an important explanation. We need to give the right content and train the Statistics Agency to work, because be safe without statistical indicators, quality processing and everything that goes on, we're blind and, in fact, we have nowhere to show what we've done and what we haven't done, we have no quality. I think that's the reason, actually, and the best explanation why this has to go today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13906	I thank Mrs. Milićević. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. The debate was about procedure, I remind you. I'm asking Dom to plead. Okay, I'm sorry. So we're pleading to the law itself. I'm asking the MPs to vote out. 16 I conclude that with 33 votes to, 3 votes against and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we have adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Act. Thank you very much. We're going to the 8th point. Ad.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. The bill was submitted to Parliament 1.7 when it was forwarded to you as well. It is a request to be considered by a shortened procedure, as referred to in Article 104. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Does anyone want to talk now? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Petar Kunić. Mr. Kunić, there's a debate here on the procedure. Are we going to accept the procedure, and the content will be discussed on the committee, and then at the House, which is why I am now, since I have stressed that we are discussing the procedure. It is my duty as chairman to intervene in this regard, and you may be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13907	I thought I was talking, I don't want to, and I'm burdening the MPs, but this is procedure. Namely, this parliament is not in charge of abolishing entity ombudsmen. It's an independent and independent institution, within the entity. This parliament is not in charge of that. The Council of Ministers, I must say here, is usurping powers, which do not have the Constitution or any law, within the framework of the legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and abolishing an institution why there is no basis. Therefore, I do not want to owe this opportunity, because there will be an amendment opportunity, and I think that this parliament, legally seeing as it is not what is happening in this Parliament, is that we can vote three times on the same thing and decide and if we refuse twice, this Parliament can discuss the same thing three times. It is nowhere in the world, so it is no wonder that this parliament, I suppose, will not declare itself incompetent for this, at least when it comes to it, is in charge of the BiH Ombudsman, but is not in charge of the merger of the entity's Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13908	I thank Mr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13909	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, given what Mr. Kunić said, appreciating the need for this issue to be very serious and very serious consultations with entities in whose jurisdiction are ombudsmen, meaning that there are, I believe that cutting deadlines would make it impossible for the necessary consultations to be carried out at entity level and therefore the SDS Club will be against the fact that this law is being considered under Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13910	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13911	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that, no matter what the procedure is today, we must remember the fact that the unification of the Ombudsman institution is one of the more ready commitments of the BiH state, when it was received in the Council of Europe and the task was two years. So this job was supposed to be done by April 24th. moj kolega Novaković, just to remind him that since BiH's accession to the Council of Europe in 2002, intensive talks with both entities have taken place since then on the unification of the Ombudsman's institution. I can understand if there is a need to continue to talk about it, but I would like to warn everyone that this task is also relevant for fulfilling our conditions for a feasibility study, because the Council of Europe is not far from the European Commission and I would ask that we support that this law goes according to Article 104, and we and how we have time to put on amendments and do everything we need, unless we like this text. But what I do know, and I've been trying to keep it going when it comes to this law, there's no opposition from any entity to do this unification, you can check it out in these next 15 or, if you decide for a month. So, I believe that BiH and that it has not only the right, but also the obligation to pass this law and bring it as soon as possible that we are already responsible for not having passed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13912	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. For the replicas, the order is, Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Živković's discussion, then Gligorić, it's the order. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13913	I just want to tell my esteemed colleague, Seadi Palavrić, that I was not talking about the need for adoption, not the adoption of this law, but the need for entities to be in agreement, that this law be passed. So that's what I'm talking about, and I didn't think that, within those short deadlines, it wouldn't be possible to achieve it. So, if, in accordance with the Constitution, the procedure is carried out, I do not mind that this law reads like this or in some other way, but it must be carried out by the Constitution and, for this reason, I do not think that the time after the shortening will allow it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13914	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13915	I must say here that this Parliament, indeed, is losing its post. He doesn't have to exist. If the world of Europe is going to determine what we have to do, that this is a done deal, then really what we decide. It's an insult to my dignity. Threatening my human rights. I don't know if he brought that advice to Europe. I don't think he brought that kind of nonsense. Namely, what's this about? It's about the next one. Please, other federal states are dropping ombudsmen closer to the citizens. Take Švajcarska, she has cantons of ombudsmans. Take the U.S. They've got in the states, there's no state of the ombudsmen. So what's the ombudsmen's function? Well, whoever knows what the Ombudsman's function is, they'll never remember in that direction to suggest, but I think I know what the Ombudsman's function is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13916	I thank Mr. Kunić. As president of this house, I've already said we're discussing the procedure now. We are not on the subject, because we could not accept the assessment and this parliament is losing its function, here, which you have already presented the second time, and the arguments that you are making here, it is logical that you present them in the debate when it comes to the content of this mutilation. Thank you very much. A debate, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13917	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just in order to speed up the debate in this house, and on several occasions I said that the committees of this Parliament should work, and that in this House we only give our opinion on the findings of these committees and speed up the debate, and in that case, I want to make a criticism to all of us. In fact, if you see the report of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, which we have received in materials, you will see that the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home on 30.4.2004 gave an opinion on the law and established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law unanimously. You will see that the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, 1.6.2004, gave an opinion on the law and unanimously. We also know that our ministers at the Council of Ministers have agreed to this law unanimously. So what's this about? If we are going to work faster in Parliament, I will do as we are obliged here to accept everything the Council of Ministers has sent, to accept what our committees are giving an opinion, or we will return to the beginning. Where were our members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Where were our members of the Refugee Commission, what are we talking about here? How was he not? It says here. So are we getting a report that isn't true? It was signed by the President of the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum, I say this is a credible report. So what kind of report did I get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13918	I thank Mr. Živković. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. Replica Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13919	I would like to tell my colleague Živković that tomorrow is on the agenda of establishing a constitutional basis under regular point 2. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I don't know what kind of report he's got or what law he's got, I guess he's got someone else on some other law. It is here today, today we are establishing a procedure, which means, the day after the procedure is determined, it can continue, begin and continue the commission's work. So, the Commission did not unanimously accept the constitutional and legal basis for this, and tomorrow we will, of course, tell the Commission clearly, or I will make it clear what I think, and I can certainly say that it will now be in line with what I was saying here today at the House session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13920	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, the replica of Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13921	It's not a replica, it's a correction of the wrong quote, but I think I need to intervene right here, as the Constitutional and Legal Commission is mentioned. It is true what counterpart Novaković said, and the report you mentioned refers to another law that is in the procedure. Read the careful name of that law. Yes, but it is not about this law we are talking about, it is about reducing the salaries of the Ombudsman, where they are brought to a level with ministers in the Council of Ministers, and this is about the institution of the Ombudsman and the law that regulates the issue of the Ombudsman institution. Of course, you need to read the materials a little more carefully, but it just happens to me sometimes to replace things, but it's a colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13922	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13923	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest, given that we have received a lot of warnings regarding this item of the agenda and that we have information that tomorrow the Constitutional and Legal Commission will discuss the constitutional basis, at 15 o'clock, to add this information to what Mr. Novaković and Mr. Ćeman said. Given that Professor Kunić, in the opening part, explained the reasons from indemnity to constitutional and legal basis, we are already in the debate concerning this law, then I think it would be correct to leave it to the Constitutional and Legal Commission tomorrow, to reach one conclusion, that the Constitutional-Law Commission declares the constitutional-legal relationship, the basis and to inform practically this House of Representatives about it, with a request that within the Constitutional and Legal Commission it would not happen, but that, indeed, we engage in these details and, of course, I also join these remarks in order to get an entity opinion and that, in fact, we come to a good law. When we were on the Red Cross Act, on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I was against it, because I felt that we could resolve this issue by decision, not by law. However, after we had consulted with the people who are at that level, they said the law needed, that they had given assurances in Geneva and I was as a man, simply accepted it and supported it practically. Why can't we do that in this case? Or in any other case, where a serious problem arises when it comes to constitutional and legal basis or jurisdiction, etc. We don't need within this Parliament to get to tensions that are completely unnecessary, and we can come to, say, a solution. And, my appeal in this case is, Mr. Chairman, to draw one working conclusion in one of these ways, and not to go too harshly to vote here today, because I will, of course, be against it, because of the way and concepts proposed by the Council of Ministers. I think they've made certain oversights there, but I'm not going to discuss their failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13924	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? I don't have any reports. I remind you once again that today we only plead to the procedure and I don't see anything procedurally questioned here. We don't speak of content today. And, please, let the Constitutional and Legal Commission do its job, let the MPs do their job, I think at first I was clear, this law belongs to the list of priorities. We have accepted it as Home, that we will treat it in this package, which treats these 16 areas, and I think it is logical that we accept the Council of Ministers' proposal for a shortened procedure. A shortened procedure also allows the commission phase and the amendment phase and the full debate and the possibility of declaring it to the entity institutions as well. 20 Therefore, for the debate, I ask the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights for BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I'm putting on a plea. I'm asking the House to plead by voting now. So 25 votes for – 9 votes against – 4 abstentions. The general majority. He doesn't have an entity majority. We should get into college now. The third member of the College is officially absent. So, we'll leave it to agree to the business deadline for three days and we'll inform the House about it. So this is how we end the 9th point and go to 10. Ad.10. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a food law, by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law, as well as the following four, which we will consider today, were given to you in 2.07., are addressed to you 5. Here is the same explanation for the shortened procedure, as well as other package laws, relating to the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. I am opening a debate on the request for a procedure under Article 104. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, that the proposal for a food law be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. In agreement with 35 votes in favour, we accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a food law under a reduced procedure under the procedure of Article 104. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 11th point. Ad.11. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a market surveillance law, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104, with an explanation and for the previous law, I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, to consider the proposal for a market surveillance law, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I'm asking the House to plead by voting now. With 37 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstention, I find that we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a market surveillance law, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 12th point. I'd like to inform you that at this point, the home session is present from 42, 40 students and that we still have the quorum. Only Mr. Špirić and Mrs. Mlaćo are out of town because they're on their way. Thank you very much. Ad.12. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on technical requirements for products and to assess compliance under the procedure of Article 104. 21 Explanation like these two laws. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want some? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, that the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance should be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. I agree that with 38 votes for, unanimously, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.13. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a general product safety law, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a general product safety law, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. I agree that with 36 votes for, without votes against and 1 abstention, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on general product safety under the procedure of Article 104. Thank you very much. We're going to the 14th. Ad.14. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Compassionation, also by procedure of Article 104. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Compensation under the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 36 votes in favour, we accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal of the Law on Compassionation, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 15th point. Ad.15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, first reading We adopted the procedure at the 36th session, under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 21.05. The committee responsible is the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, and its report has been sent to you 17.6. There were no amendments at this stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There's no record of a hearing. I am concluding the debate and I am asking the House to declare itself in its first reading on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in BiH. Vote now. I find that the House unanimously with 36 votes in favour, adopted the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act in BiH in the first reading. I suggest we make it clear if we're going to consider this law in a second reading. I'm asking the concierge to make a statement about it. 22 Vote now. They unanimously agreed with 35 votes to plead on this law and on the second reading. I ask the MPs to plead on this law and in the second reading. Vote now. I agree that the House unanimously with 38 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in BiH and in the second reading. I thank the MPs once again. Transmit 16th point. Ad.16. Proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH, in the first reading of the 38th session, we adopted the procedure, as referred to in Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion. She's a relevant commission to consider this law. Her report was sent to you on 1 July. The Constitutional and Legal Commission supported the bill. In the plenary phase, the amendments were submitted by Mr Momčilo Novaković. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13925	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I have submitted amendments to Article 8 and Article 22 in fact made objections to the principles of this law, believing this is an area of exclusive entity jurisdiction. So it was quite unnecessary to regulate the issue of registration of business entities in BiH in this way, and then lagging behind, the absolute need to keep the base in electronic form at the BiH Ministry of Justice. In this way, it practically reduces the responsibility of the courts, which influenced or gave a solution to the registration, which is absolutely, in my view, unacceptable. For these reasons, SDS will not support the proposal of this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13926	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the first deputy chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13927	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this is one of the laws, which are related to BiH's European path and it is in a package of these laws and I would ask all colleagues to address this issue in this way. This is, of course, a debate in the first reading, a debate on principles, but, since counterpart Novaković has expressed his position on the law, and when it comes to the principles, so, when it comes to the statement in the first reading, and I want to inform you that in the name of Mr Raguz, Mr Belkić, me and Mr Špirić, today I have received a letter from the Office of the High Representative from Ambassador Hejs, which presents a certain opinion on the text of the law, which was delivered by the Council of Ministers in the House of Ministers, and this opinion is precisely the provisions of Article 8 and the provisions of Article 22 of the fourth law. That's why I don't think we'd come into a situation today, that this law falls into the first reading, and it's a very important law, which is, I say, about a feasibility study, that, above all, the College, and then the House, take advantage of the business possibility, that we give this letter to our 23 Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is responsible for that, and we ask our constitutional and legal commission to look at all these aspects, therefore, aspects that are listed in this letter and to come out with a new report here in front of this house. I repeat, the only reason is that we would not come into a situation, that the law would fall in the parliamentary procedure, and it is a very important law when it comes to BiH's economy and the European path of BiH. In that direction, we have two options. a) that we do not now declare ourselves on this law, and that by the end of today's session, the Constitutional and Legal Commission sits down and sees all this together, if possible, of course. If not possible, then b) since we will have another session until vacations. The session was planned on 27th and 28th of this month, where there will be a lot of laws, to deliver a new report by that session, and to find the law on the agenda for the third time, so that we have this law and we do not come into a position to refuse in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13928	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13929	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Novaković said, which refers to the work within the Constitutional and Legal Commission, when we talked about the principles concerning this law and the amendments tabled by Mr Novaković to Article 8 and Article 22, which he has now quoted and Mr Džaferović, we should consider perhaps in this direction, as Mr Džaferović suggested, because within the Constitutional and Legal Commission we received the situation of re-election, without having entered into substance and content according to the amendments. Now, for a moment, let's ignore the constitutional and legal basis, which is questionable, but when we talk about the law itself, in it this proposal that we have received does not mean that it is perfect, and I think that amendments, which I wanted to make, but since Mr. Novaković did so, practically solve the issue and that we can also regulate that question by law, relating to the feasibility study. In this way, I believe that, if we return to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and return of course and amendments, we are also in an active role, which is allowed by the Rules of Procedure, as well as an appeal to the Commission to understand the seriousness of this law, but at the same time that we are not necessarily in a position that a proposed law cannot suffer any change, because we have a policy of abject acceptance of the proposal by the Council of Ministers or by the OHR, and at the same time we come into another position, farce, that the amendments refuse as much as they are valid, necessary etc. Then we get one obedience policy and in committees, which rises to Parliament's level, and apparently you have a procedure, and basically you have a farce, because there's someone there who's determined that no amendment can pass. Then, indeed, we come to one situation to humiliate both the MPs and the people who make amendments, with a desire to do so. Of course, in this way I do not defend anyone who submits an amendment that is also perfect and that cannot be debated about it. But, or be fixed in this sense. That's why it would be good, 'cause I'm speaking for Mr. Mixed Club right now. Professor Kunić and Blagojević, and for our own sake, that we cannot accept, practically that, and then we will come back into this entity problem when we vote. You should take care of it and save as much as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13930	Thank you. The word has Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13931	So we're talking about the principles of this law. To be honest, so I'm speaking for myself now. The report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission you received and the occasion of the matter is, when it comes to that part of the story, that there are rarely in the Constitutional and Legal Committee different opinions, but ultimately it is necessary to bring the matter to an end and procedurally we bring it to an end in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is sometimes on one or the other side of the expert, and if you want a political opinion, it is more or less normal, it is not the reason for my address and the present step. So, since we're talking about principles, I've come to understand this law with two strong messages and that's why I wasn't against the law, although I did have a dilemma about its content, especially a relationship with another law, which I'm going to mention. The first principle, in my opinion, is that the affirmative role of the registrar's court is better said by courts for registration of business entities, legal entities in both entities and Brcko. So it's not questionable. It is a stressed need to unify certain things, which have emerged as, or recorded for a long time as a problem in the area and which is what the businessmen have just turned their attention to. It has this principle of freedom of movement of people, goods and capital and some solutions, including areas of registration of legal entities, companies etc. They violated that principle. Therefore, the requirement or obligation laid down by this law, this bill to bring these criteria into line, these principles, normally, legal things, was considered to be quite logical. The second new moment is, in fact, the introduction into this business, into this procedure into this matter now the Ministry of Justice at the state level, which has the task of leading, let's say, the electronic register, sort of sums it up all on the basis of data and courts. Of course, there may be an attitude that anyone interested in it can obtain that information from the courts, but in my view it was acceptable, if not because of anything else, and also because this is on one side, we have the court and the role of the court, and on the other, the administrative authority, which should prevent, among other things, the existence of fictitious firms, which was also a major problem, and still in BiH. So in this function, I understand the existence of this register at a level of expensive. At first sight, or at which point of view, it may contradict that basic second principle, that the register is run by a court, and now we have a register in some way run by an administrative authority, or one ministry. These two things can be reconciled, if we understand, I am, therefore, speaking in favour of this solution really, if we realize that this is one of the functions of jurisdiction, and this is another in one of the other administrative, administrative, and here's a certain role, which has one broader character. Finally, I also spoke on the Constitutional Commission as a member of the Commission. I am not, by the promoter, and therefore I support my colleague Džaferović's proposal and who has already supported it, although the Constitutional Commission has a lot of work to do without this, but I support that we eventually commit ourselves to a new report with some suggestions, which will come from this debate. So, because let's let it be discussed one more time. I don't know what the contents of this letter, which was mentioned from the Office of the High Representative or from whom it had already arrived, but we'll see that too. I, therefore, support this proposal in all of this, but I remind myself that I, as a member of the Commission, have asked the question of the relationship between the resolutions of this law and, for example, the law that has been declared, by the High Representative, who is an integral part of the legal system, which is the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons, which is set up by BiH institutions. Look one thing, I still can't convince myself enough that there are reasons that there are two different regimes of registration of businesses, legal entities etc. So, I asked for one suitable, adequate solution and bringing into contact these 25 laws, although this one that mentions specifically the registration of legal persons, which are established by BiH institutions, does not always have to mean that it will be a legal person an economic entity, and it can, but it does not necessarily mean that the one that speaks about the registration of business entities could not also contain the provisions of this kind. Therefore, here is one of my suggestions for this conclusion on the new report and with new suggestions by the House, that through the conclusion of the House on the need for a new report these two laws which I mention, the bill we are discussing and the law already part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13932	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Belkić, so Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13933	As for the Party Club for BiH, we will not make, of course, a problem, but will join in finding a solution, understanding the importance of this law. We also respect this letter, etc. But I answered for something else. I wouldn't want to cloud the reasons why we disagree. Namely, what is the essence of the problem, i.e. the direction Mr. Novaković's amendments are heading. So, some minor areas, which the Justice Department has won here, should be eliminated. This is simply about keeping the main book, etc. But we can discuss it. There are no huge differences, and more importantly, the Council of Ministers unanimously proposed this solution. The Council of Ministers, our government, which we support. And all of a sudden, we don't support her right now. That's a little problematic, Mr. Novaković. Are we ready to talk about coming to a common solution, get results?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13934	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13935	You see, given the real importance of the legislative project, but also what Mr. Džferović said, so I can say on behalf of the Club that I am willing to vote so that we can reconsider on the Constitutional and Legal Committee my amendments and the letter received by Mr. Džaferović, which he mentioned here, with this, probably not being able to do so today and it is more acceptable for this variant, or another proposal to be by the next session, or by 27th or 28th, when the session is scheduled, with me having to say that, when I have taken the word, yes, of course not with the intention to replicate to Mr. Belkić in relation to support or not, the Council of Ministers. We have made a clear statement about it as a party. I don't want to repeat it here, but what I want to say is also that in this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Commission, which has been working on this law, is, therefore, and which has given consent to the text of the law, is not on this text. So, the text of the law in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given its consent differs from the proposed text, and the essence of my amendments has been in this direction and therefore I, again, say, taking into account, indeed, the importance of this law I am prepared with the Club to support Mr Džaferović's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13936	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I think, here before I give my word to Mr Lagumdžija, Mr Lagumdžija, I ask you to report in due time, to facilitate the work and 26 to the College, but here you will get the word, only to express as chairman, also a personal willingness to support, here we see more representatives, to find the possibility that the Commission can further consider this situation around this law, because this law is really important and that in the next period until the next session, which is planned by 27th or 28th form a new report and that at the next session we are considering this law. I think there's a lot of reasons why it's a constructive approach and that it allows all of these essential elements that are presented today to be discussed on the table. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13937	I thank Mr. Chairman, first of all, I think that we now have a dilemma in front of us, or, unfortunately, we are going back to the debate we have already seen, the arguments we have seen. It's a similar argument, although it wasn't said until the end, but to be clear, I want to be clear and accurate. These are the dilemmas that are repeated, which we had a few years ago by which CIPS. So, we have... which is called a unique register of BiH citizens and this same coalition, which is now in power, the CIPS project was held in the freezer and failed to agree on a single project, a BiH citizen register. Then a law was passed in the last assembly of Parliament, under which we received a unique register of citizens. Then it was said, and the document "Work and Justice" states that behind the register citizens will be made a register of companies. I want everyone here to know what this is about. The unique register of citizens was the first step towards introducing a single register of companies, which was the direct objective of doing so, to abolish fake companies and prevent smuggling and all possible manipulations of taxes, customs and the like. So why did it go to the creation of a register of citizens, why we have a ID card according to European standards and why a single register of companies was to be made, not only in Europe, but to know who is a citizen of this country and who owns which companies and where this company exists on the entire territory of BiH, it was also an assumption of what is now called the introduction of an indirect taxation administration and tomorrow VAT. So that's the whole structure. We're going back here now and what's right here in front of us, this is, uh, practically turning the point back. The amendments submitted by Mr. Novaković, to know what I'm talking about, mean, breaking up a single company register and making registers to three entities, Brcko, as an entity, the Federation as an entity and RS as an entity, and what we now have through amendments is practically going hand in hand, I'm not going to tell whom politically, but this definitely goes hand in hand to those people, who are now being paid by the introduction of order, who will stop smuggling and corruption tied up by... thieving. So we're going to meet up with all kinds of balls right now, so we know what we're talking about, and these stories, the entity law, all that's more than anything I want to say here. I'm surprised by this letter. It's the first time I've seen it. I'm surprised by this letter, because, let's forget this letter, I may not have read it well, but whoever's behind this is still behind it. Who gives us three licenses instead of one? International consultants, who here want to sell us more software packages than we need and what kind of white-world hostels, who come here as international consultants, who know less than my assistants, from the domain of information technologies, and are giving a lecture on things that have nothing to do with them. They're just going to sell us three machines instead of one, three licenses instead of one, and it's going to be credited to us in Karc projects to help BiH. So these are the big questions that I'm taking right now, but I just want you to know here. I have to, what they say tomorrow, when I talk to some students, tell them, you know, I'm the man who said this, just people don't listen there. They have people who think politically differently. I think politically that this is wrong to accept the amendment like this, that from the point of view of the objectives is completely wrong, because here we go directly to the thieves and, thirdly, it is wrong from the point of view of the basic technical and technological procedures and from the technological point of view. There are no additional gatherings, there are stories for small children, what it says here. No new gatherings are what the Justice Department's register exists, as the registry is due tomorrow to be tied to the Direct Taxation Authority, it should allow 27 auditors to enter it, etc. I don't want to tell anyone who doesn't, and I don't want to go further without giving a lecture. I consider the return of this law through amendments, the return of four years ago, and anyone who accepts this kind of access to the Order of Merit for the support of such white-world hoistuplers, including domestic thieves. That's why I insist on voting on this bill. Well, here you go, we have a law ahead of us. Don't adopt him. Make a deal, whatever you want. Nothing will be faster if the law falls, than if it returns to this disputed procedure, because this law was supposed to be in front of parlamentan a year ago under the document "Work and Justice". The Council of Ministers knew all this and now there is no chairman here, this is capital law for this country. Capital law for this country. I can't help but wonder, that from the Council of Ministers, with full respect for the people who came here, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers did not come to answer these questions, which are eminently political, legal, economic, professional, so rich and criminal. That's why I insist on voting and after whatever you want. Here, there's a Rules of Procedure... so let's just count it down for the record. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13938	Thank you very much. Short, before I give my word to Mr. Petar Kunić, Mr. Džaferović's intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13939	Dear fellow Lagumdžija, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should be intruding here, we should be saying what we are. This law, therefore, in whatever form, or content to be adopted, whether in this one, which came from the Council of Ministers or from this one that is hinting, is here from this letter, which we have here and in any case a step forward in BiH, when it comes to editing this area. We can't talk about any version that's a step back. Another thing, as far as Šefik Džaferović is concerned, I am ready to vote for this law that came from the Council of Ministers as it is. Mr. Lagumdžija, I listened carefully, and you listen to me, don't throw it away. I am prepared to vote in favour of the text of the law, as it came here and I responded to this pay phone, only at the moment when I saw that the law would not pass in Parliament and suggested that we reconsider the possibilities to finally get to the law. That's the bottom line of what I was about to say, if you don't understand me and don't go back to the CIPS project. You don't need to go back to me telling you what you were doing when you passed the I.D. Act, how you adopted it, so he later repaired the High Representative, etc. Please, there's no need to open that story. Let us be constructive in this House. So I went out to correct the wrong allegations. The law in any variant of adoption is not a step back, but a step forward in the ondos of the existing situation, as the law in Article 2 says. The purpose of this law is to determine how business entities are registered in the Federation of BiH and RS, in the text below, entities and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the text of the Brcko District, as well as the alignment of this law and the laws of entities and the Brcko District with the regulations of the European Union, by creating a unique identification of business entities. And, under 2. The law is designed to establish a quick and uniform procedure for registration of business entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is applicable to all business entities established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both domestic and foreign first and natural persons. This is the foundation of the law. This foundation of the law does not touch the amendment or the letter that came from the High Representative. So this 28 is the goal of the law itself and it is not questionable in any way, and that is the key progress that we in BiH need to make. Furthermore, the registration of legal entities was left to the courts of entities and Brcko District both by law and by this letter. So no one touches that either. That's the point, and that's what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13940	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I would say that it is acceptable this way proposed by Mr Džaferović, for the reason that, as far as the law seems to me, he would not pass, he would not get his full majority. I think that more understanding should be introduced into Parliament, not constant voting. The Constitutional Commission, in it is the atmosphere of voting. This Parliament needs to know and the question arises as long as I am the only one, who I understand something in the right to endure in the situation and resign from the Constitutional Commission, because there is no understanding there, and voting is probably going to be a vote again tomorrow, because there is no understanding there. There are few working bodies in this parliament to work in such a way as to try to reach some consensus, some agreement. I would like to point out the Rules of Procedure here. It doesn't matter who led it, I won't point it out, but we've reached an agreement and a consensus and, in that direction, we need to strive. It's easy to vote, but please consider the consequences of the vote. Let's turn on the radio sometime, turn it on and seriously turn it on. And that is why I accept what Mr. Džaferović suggested, to postpone it for the next session. It is not possible to look at the conventions of the OHR today and decide when we have a session of this kind with the agenda. I think OHR's remarks are on the trail of remarks made by Mr. Novaković and are largely acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13942	Thank you. I have two replicas. Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13943	I have to replicate my colleague Kunić, Professor Kinić, and I'll say the following. Comrade Kunić, we are voting on the Constitutional Commission, and we are not shutting down. I call on Parliament and all of you, please, to take a look at the stenograms from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so you will see how much attention each and every one of us has the ability to say its legal, political and any other points of view when it comes to any law. But, let me, on that same commission, I have been on several occasions as my colleague Kunić says too loud, but I have seen it as a simple relationship of colleagues to solutions and to my views. So I don't think I'm too loud with the ugly meaning of that word, but that was the result of the vote. I am the chairman of this committee, and I say, if he wants to go ahead and check, that I am leading the Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that, in essence, we cannot lead the matter to an end, because simply when we exhaust all the arguments of any kind, we are ultimately about to decide and vote as the Commission. I ask you, colleague Kunić, no matter what in principle, I also agree that the effort should be made if we can reach a unanimous opinion. But since it rarely turns out from discussion that it is, let's say impossible, and in most cases it is possible and so it is, then, of course, we processally bring the matter to an end, as this Rules of Procedure requires. I understood this, therefore, as one criticism at the expense of me as chairman and for this I reacted, although in principle, I really agree whenever we can reconcile the expert and political and other views, why not do so. I am trying as hard as I can, but no, probably not as much as my colleague Kunić would evaluate, or as much as I estimate it, but here is what the Commission is doing is agreeing with the members of the Commission in the framework of the Rules of Procedure. I'm 29, please keep that in mind. I came out just to say that we don't, therefore, ask the Rules of Procedure, and I remind myself that we've rarely agreed on many things, and it's probably going to be, sometimes it's not possible, sometimes it shouldn't end up being exhausted in convictions, whether I'm right or you, or some tenth, which is why there's a Rules of Procedure and Procedure, which binds us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13944	Thank you very much. Mr. Duraković, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13945	I'd just like a little bit. I am surprised, indeed, by Professor Kunić, that he does not know that voting or voting is essential, elemental, the essence of parliamentary democracy. Otherwise, she's gone, not half-sensual democracy professor. That is why other institutes are foreseen on some important issues. And I suggest that this bill be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13946	I thank Mr. Duraković. Replica Mr. Kunić. Are you in charge of the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13947	Professor Duraković, I know what the vote is. The vote is a number and two crazy people can outvote one smart guy. One smart guy can't have two... so I've been listening to democracy lectures a long time ago, and I think you're the wrong address, that there's a lot of people to whom it would probably be good for what you said, but not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13948	I thank Dr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13949	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, given that in some way the initiator, when I spoke in the debate, mentioned how the Constitutional and Legal Commission was doing and that there was a revote, and then it developed. I don't want the Constitutional and Legal Commission to be a part of the agenda, because in some way it becomes, but I would like to say what Mr. Chairman said to Ćeman, that sometimes it happens to be too loud, and in that way he's actually discovered something that might characterise as a guilty quote, and it's about, you know, having a Rules of Procedure, you have a form, and when you don't understand that more variations, but honestly accept which is better, if you have a firm and exclusive attitude, you come, really into the situation that you are a cruel machine, which ruthlessly brings some attitudes, which are formed, let's say, in political cabinets, it feels and I have to say it. And, at the same time, when Mr. Ćeman was outvoted, which happened once or twice, then he did not forget it, but again from the political cabinets he found a way to re-proceed through the procedure in Parliament or even in the House of Peoples as a vital national interest to appear that question and be restored to the beginning again, to a hard and exclusive position. Therefore, understanding and tolerance among humans is a big deal. Especially in parliamentary bodies. So I'm saying, I've never been wrong or sorry when someone voted me out, if that was in good interest, but if you still have that, that message, that's because we've agreed somewhere, and we're using these benches and this Parliament, which on behalf of all citizens for the implementation of some political party and its programme, then I'm not, even if it was a socialist party. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13950	We have two replicas. First Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Ćeman. I ask you to return to the essence of the bill itself and the way in which we can resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13951	Dear Chairman, I have indeed tried to distance myself from this debate, however, Mr Gligorić managed to get me involved. I can't understand at all how we can talk about voting, if we respect the Rules of Procedure, which we've all adopted, or, here we are, and we're working on it. Please don't, the result of the vote, let's take the Commission for Refugees and Human Rights. Mr. Gligorić led. There were five people. Voted the proposals, which are out of my mind for smart people with 3 and 2 and am I voted over then? Are the members against the vote? So come on, please, let's not be serious. Professor Kunić said, I don't know that two crazy people can vote one smart one, but two people who don't want a niche constructively, I don't want other qualifications about them, but what they can do, so I can't be the hostage of Mr. Kunić your views. And, says Mr. Gligorić, they agree, implement party programmes, so normally. Well, I'm going to the election with the party program. My party program goes to the Electoral Commission and I want to spend it. The most normal thing would be to agree and come and work in the interest of the BiH state and of all citizens, and please don't mention the vote again, because that's the vote, the result of the vote. We'll see what happens later. Here's the thing. It's important to respect the Rules of Procedure. If he's not good, let's change him. It's been two years since we tried, but let's change it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13952	Mr. Ćeman called earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13953	My colleagues Gligorić. I have never since my discussions at the Commission, and look at the stenograms are all at the disposal, I have not called on anyone's views, just trying to function and act as a lawyer, who in his own way, and each has the right under his profession, and also the lawyers understand the Constitution and constitutional norms or whatever the Constitutional and Legal Commission must take into account when deciding either on a constitutional basis, whether as a competent commission on the content of the law. That, therefore, was my approach. I never, therefore, can you check it out that way I didn't work. I said, not with the intention that, and the argument or qualification that you have said, that several times I, as you have called it, am too loud, but I have experienced it, therefore, as your opinion contrary to my opinion or my counter to yours. And, please, that's how it's going. And as for the Constitution and the dilemma that you personally have, I've said x times and on the commission and I'll say here. I personally have a somewhat broader understanding of the constitutional and legal norm and I claim that the Constitution of BiH, the current Constitution of BiH, can be interpreted and understood more flexible, indeed I repeat more flexible, wider than you and some of your legal like-minded allow understanding. Please nice and it is normally correct and legal, legitimate approach that you have, but let me also have the right to my understanding of the Constitution. And, in the end, conflict is two legal approaches and let's respect them and respect them, no matter what the result will be. I always have in mind and it is not all the same to me whether the laws passing the Constitutional and Legal Commission, in other words why not the other committees responsible, what fate they will have in this House, or finally at Parliament as a whole. I mean, I mean, it's just my part of the job, so I approach, maybe I'm here, in your opinion, not flexible enough, we end up in that phase of procedural discussion that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13954	Please, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13955	I'm done, I'm hit by this, but when he comes to this house, it's the responsibility of the House and so be it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13956	Nothing, Mr. Kunić, so Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13957	I suppose when Mr. Ćeman spoke of a more flexible approach to the legal norm, he meant more extensive interpretation of the legal norm. No more flexible, that right doesn't exist, and that exists in politics. And as for Mrs Palavrić, I would remind her that, once and for all, on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there was simply violence against the legal norm. Mrs. Palavrić, it is very difficult to endure, especially for people who have spent their entire lives dealing with the law and the Constitution and for whom the Constitution and the law is sacred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13958	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Avdić, and I have no more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13959	First thing I really want to do, because I didn't want to react before, we turned this agenda point into a parenting meeting for our commission, and now they're all complaining here. Let's leave them room to make a report and face each other. Secondly, we're not going to start a campaign, we're going to hold another session of the Assembly, so let's go on a vacation campaign, let people take the time to present politics and go on the campaign. Let's go, so for me, with a constructive proposal, firstly to make a statement about Mr. Džaferović's proposal, yes, so, in what way do we get out of this problem, we're looking for the best solution, to bring this to an end, and this is really an inappropriate story of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I think they should work it out with each other and do their job professionally.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13960	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13961	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, when we return to the really starting issue with the goal of saving this law and simply being adopted into both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but not any objective. You see, we have a very specific situation. I would expand to that, by analysing this OHR letter and analyzing the law, we have, simply, a really very conflicting and simple situation that is uncertain. So, OHR contests the Council of Ministers' law, the Council of Ministers' law is challenged by amendments to MPs, and in this context, for the first time in practice, parliamentary practice we have opposing views, there is a feeling of OHR and the Council of Ministers to such a extent as to change the functions and positions of the Council of 32 ministers. The more functions and positions of individual ministries in the Council of Ministers and they get a simple prefix, if you want to harmonize the factor between the entity and the Brcko District. Which means that this law is largely strategically objective. It concerns the political future of BiH, regarding the reintegration of BiH's economic space and, in this context, certain that by analysing what is before us today, we simply have a really opposing opinion. It is not far from the truth and discussion of Dr Lagumdžija and others, which means I would ask for an exit to the next one, which is that the committee responsible until the next session of the House of Representatives, the committee responsible, together with representatives of the Council of Ministers and together with representatives of the OHR, sits down and tries to reach the text and simply evaluate these amendments from counterpart Novaković, means that it would be an instructional proposal to really discuss this legislation by the end. So the OHR and the Council of Ministers and our competent committee for this law. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13962	Thank you very much. No more reports. The debate is closed. As chairman and as a member of the College, I would like to join Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the vice-president, who is supported in several clubs, therefore, to ensure that, by respecting all these circumstances, which appeared in the debate on the principle of this law, we will ensure, according to Rule 95(3), new consideration at the commission stage and the preparation of quality until the next session. I don't think we're gonna lose anything. We can only win. It is an interest to pass a quality law, because this is one of the most important laws and conditions, not to burden it, possibly by not bringing it to today's session, but to come to a situation where this law meets the standards and also to be adopted in this home. Can we make a statement about this proposal? I'm begging Dom. Well, Mr. Avdić, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13963	I demand that the committee of directors be chaired by the Council of Ministers and the OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13964	So don't ask me to. It's logically entirely in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13965	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13966	It's not at all controversial what you said, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13967	Well, then, the chairman needs to be specified. We've got problems later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13968	So what's the problem? The Commission to which we are giving a new deadline should ensure all of this. Well, I won't draw them. So let's get the people serious. If we give them a new deadline, they will normally consult both OHR and MPs and amendments for 15 days. I expect the commission to work that way, not me. The debate is closed, Mr. Ćeman. Go ahead. Mr. Ćeman on behalf of the commission, regarding the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13969	So, like this, Article 95(3) says. The home may ask the commission to draw up a new report, based on new guidelines within 15 days. So, I support that commission back on track. I guess the new guidelines are why I intervene, to consider what was heard in the debate and, from the angle of what the OHR wrote. I don't know what it says yet. I want to know what the new guidelines are, because as far as I'm concerned, I can vote for this law today, too, and support it, but if there are new guidelines, I want to know how to run the gentlemen's session, so there are no objections, give me directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13970	I think I made myself clear. So, the circumstances that are presented today in the debate and are not just about OHR's position, they are certainly important. We had Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Kunić's position here. I think that the Commission can consider all this and prepare a metric report, call for a session of the Commission and consult all key entities and the Office of the High Representative and the applicant of the amendment and come up with a constructive report, which will allow the law to be standardised, to be implemented and that this House adopts a very important law. Can we get to the bottom of this? I'm asking the House to come forward with a proposal for a conclusion that I've been formulating. Vote now. I find that with 33 votes in favour, one against, one abstention and enough entity majority, we have accepted the proposal that, according to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3 provide for a new deadline for further report by the competent, relevant committees and that we have this law at the next session of our home. Thank you very much to the MPs. My proposal is to work until 1:00, secure a break by 2:00, and let's try to finish these two next points if we can, start the review after the break. Thank you very much. So the 17th point is Ad.17. The draft law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act in the first reading of the proposal for a law was sent to lawmakers on 07.04. A procedure of 104 was adopted at the 33rd session. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 04.05 and, at the request of the committee responsible, extended the deadline for submitting the report. A report from the Commission responsible for foreign trade and customs has been delivered to you on 01.07. As you have seen from the report, the Commission supported the draft law in the proposed text and no amendments were made to the draft law. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. Who does? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the report of the commission and the bill's proposal in the first reading. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. I find that with 35 votes for, unanimously adopted, the proposal for a law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act in the first reading. As this bill was adopted unanimously in the first reading, as there were no amendments, I suggest that the House plead that we also consider this law in the second reading today. Please vote now. 34 With 35 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstentioned dom accepted the proposal to consider this bill in a second reading. Is there any need for any discussion? There isn't. I ask the House to declare itself in the second reading on the draft law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act. Vote now. So, according to this record, 26 votes for, a unanimously enough entity majority, we adopted the bill on amendments to the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act and in the second reading. I thank all the MPs for the expedition. And we move on to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. The proposal for a law on the Agency for the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of seized property is proposed by MP Jozo Križanović with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission I will remind representatives of several important elements before opening the debate. This law was passed in procedure 06.10. The Constitutional and Legal Commission was responsible. Her report was delivered to us on 16th of last year. The Commission did not support the principles of the proposed law. Therefore, we did not have the draft law on the agenda because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure did not clearly define the situation where the relevant Commission did not support the principles of the proposed law. At the 38th session of our home, Dom adopted a conclusion that prescribed the procedure when the relevant commission did not support the principles of the proposed law. According to that conclusion, today we have this agenda point. So we have a bill of law with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. For a reminder, I will say that in conclusion regulated, that the House should decide on a report from the competent commission and when it does not support the principles of the proposed law. So, if the House Commission report accepts, the bill is considered rejected. If the House does not accept the report of the competent commission, the House will ask the competent commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. These are the conclusions we adopted on the procedure at the 38th session. So now I'm opening a debate on the committee's report. On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13972	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the chairman has therefore introduced us to several important procedural or business matters important for the draft law, which has been treated by the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, which is the subject of today's debate, but of course, in principle and in principle should also apply to our behaviour in the future. Therefore, in a report dated 15.12. and received in Parliament on 16.12., the Constitutional and Legal Commission said very briefly that it did not, it did not support the principles of the proposed law and concluded that the conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure had not been met, in the proposal for a law on the Agency to ensure the forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property. I personally, as the chairman of the committee, and as a member, felt that the debate on the Commission itself had to be discussed in the reports and the reasons for not supporting the principles, some sort of reasoning 35 why the princes do not support themselves, and I remind you that Article 88. The Rules of Procedure say that the Commission's report states, not only these, but otherwise whether it is necessary to pass a law, whether it is necessary to pass a law. Since there was an objectively vagueness in the Rules of Procedure itself and I am as chairman of the Commission, I must admit that when I signed the report, I agreed to go so dry, the naked finding is not accepted by the principles. Expecting us to come to that opportunity and we came and I came, many times as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commissions, to explain to the media what we of course told each other in the Constitutional and Legal Commission arguments and counter arguments, and then the result of the vote was what it is, so the majority felt that the proposed principles of the law should not be accepted, or that the law did not have to be passed, although this finding is explicitly not standing here. Regarding this conclusion that we have recently adopted and which has again passed this law, better say this report at the House session, right at my intervention, the amendment that we have said that, in the future, when the report is negative, there should be an explanation, because indeed if a competent committee has discussed something, it should explain why it may not have accepted the principles. I therefore, on the basis of what has been said and what is the majority in the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives when it has discussed, the proposal for a law by a respected colleague, I can say that the reasons why the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law are the following, i.e. what is the basic principle of the proposed law. This is the law of organizational nature. The basic principle is to establish a special body, an agency body that would in a certain way combine various statistical data, which would otherwise partially perform functions already performed by the Financial Police, the Tax Administration, the Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities. So these two principles, therefore, are the formation of a special body that would do all of this a little bit, and this is, in a way, being an organ over the organs. The Constitutional and Legal Commission's approach was this, on the basis of the knowledge and legal system which is valid in BiH that it is not, therefore, not to support this principle because there are already competent authorities in charge of fighting what is entirely justified as a basic idea put into the Agency's assumed jurisdiction, which is to take away illegally acquired property benefits. It was not at all disputed on the commission as such or as constitutional law, and why is it not disputed? Because the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the majority in the Constitutional and Legal Commission considered that the BiH Kiwi Law adopted last year, the Federation and RS criminal laws and the Brcko District's criminal laws, in a special way, where no one can maintain the property benefit provided by criminal acts. Then, that it is possible to confiscate money, property items and any other property benefit, further that, if the consequence of the crime is damaged, BiH's authority is authorised by law to care for the protection of these assets can take part in the criminal proceedings in accordance with the powers it has under that law, the Criminal Procedure Act, that, under the provisions of the Criminal Sanctions Act and the Implementing Procedure Act, temporary security measures can be sought and implemented. Furthermore, if there are grounds for doubt, the prosecutor's proposal may go in the direction of the bank's order and other financial institution to, of course or limit the availability of funds if they are a question, etc. Therefore, the majority in the Commission thought that there was no need to form a new institution because there is a Prosecutor's Office, the Financial Police, there is a Tax Administration, there are other institutions that have instruments that can be efficient. If that were true, I remind you of the statement of Mr. Public Prosecutor, or BiH's chief prosecutor, who answered the following question both my and my colleagues Križanović. A stenogram from the session recently held when we discussed the report on his name on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work. I quote Mr. Chief Prosecutor on the stenogram "I personally think that he is very good, only when the issue of the property benefit is taken away, if it is obtained by a criminal act, so we have a lot of good built-in mechanisms through the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law of BiH and enable us to succeed in confiscation of the property benefit obtained illegally" Further, however, there is a lot of conditionality on how to say illegal actions and activities resulting from which 36 someone committed a criminal offence but you cannot come up with valuable evidence on the basis of which evidence could lead to some criminal judgment and in this procedure take away the wrongful property benefit. So in that direction, I don't think that this second segment has been sufficiently processed either through the Criminal Procedure Act and I think that these discussions that were led earlier to the adoption of a special law, I also support them, I think they are very justified," the chief prosecutor said. I will not comment on this, but I must make clear from the legal point of view first of all the assessment that it is quite correct first finding, which is the position of the majority in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure Act, Money Prevention Act, Tax Administration Act and the Financial Police, etc. provide sufficient mechanisms to take away and monitor and prevent illegal property benefit, etc. But I'm only pointing out, and I'm sorry there's no Mr. Chief Prosecutor here to argue on this subject, if I didn't want to last time, it's absolutely unacceptable to say that something should be done even though you don't have valid evidence, because here it is, when it comes to this agency, to confiscate property that has been found to have been obtained by criminal acts. If there's no evidence of a crime, there's no point in taking something away unless it's proven to be a crime. And that's... let me comment on a little bit of what the D.A. said. It's a violation of the basic principle of right and criminal law. So I'm not going into this, I'm just trying to explain on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We were therefore against the principle of forming a new institution because the existing one already exists. One thing. The second thing, from the stenogram, is that it also stands in the stenogram, although the report did not state, the powers given, I really speak now as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and speak as the prime minister, the competencies given to this agency, its authorities with the detention of prosecutors, the financial police, the tax administrations would also lead to confusion and conflict of jurisdiction and overlapping, conflicting, etc. When the law is reviewed and looked at from that organisational nature, it simply, in the opinion of the majority in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, could not pass, because there would therefore be a conflict of jurisdiction, even if I did not know what and possibly ineffectiveness. And finally, since the obligation is according to the Rules of Procedure and I am clearly out of such an interpreted Rules of Procedure more to say from professional services, to say whether there is a need for the adoption of this law. Although the report does not stand, the opinion of the majority in the Constitutional and Legal Commission is that there is no need to pass such a law. And that's why principles aren't supported. So, the only reason is not to suggest to someone, that they will have the opportunity to maintain an illegal property benefit, because that possibility of course needs to be used by the prosecutor and others not to keep it sanctioned, but actually the message is that they now have a more comfortable space, but pure laws of organisational nature, we don't need a new institution that might disturb this jurisdiction of others that have to be efficient, colors organised, etc. I end up, therefore, by proposing that and that is my opinion on behalf of the Commission, which I must say that the Commission's report is adopted as it is, that there is no need to pass the law, but that there is no need of course to pursue and sanction, to prove who it is and how it has acquired and what it has acquired, and on the other hand, that, possibly, if it should be under this law, the commission, based on this conclusion, which is new, I will now use this approach that my colleague Džaferović had, a new report where what I said in such a hurry and hastily compared and made a written explanation why this law should not be passed. And I end up with that, but it could be included later as a fellow MP, not on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, in support of this speaking on the one hand by Mr. Chief Prosecutor's statement that they have already been prosecuted, that the Court of Justice of BiH has reached a verdict in which the decision on the guilt itself has been decided and the confiscation of property benefits has been taken, said one example, I don't remember exactly now and here before the day, two, although I am here of course not prejudicing the finality of that decision, because the decision is probably first degree, but we have recently listened to that judgment also given by a court and stressed that a decision has been taken to take advantage of property. So, instruments exist, perhaps we need to see them a little bit more, whether they improve somewhere but definitely, according to the Constitutional Commission, most in the Constitutional Commission have no need for a new institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13973	Thank you. Orders have been reported next, which I have reported. So, Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Avdić and Mr. Momčilo Novaković, Mr. Križanović, a replica earlier. I ask the MPs indeed for one kind of correctness, Mr. Lagumdžija. Well, get back to me in time for a word. I'm the one who registrated, please, and no one's trying to stop him from having a word, only when he picks up. It was only now that Mr. Križanović called. And give me a call first so you can comment on whether someone gives you a word or doesn't. I can't give you my word if you don't answer, not even the motionaries. Now you and Mr. Križanović have come forward, and my proposal will be to give Mr. Križanović the top priority after the replica of Mr. Novaković. Before the replica of business intervention Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13974	Suggesting that it would be the order that when the president of the commission, on behalf of the Commission, made clear on a report that explained the views of the report, I think it would be a good idea for MPs, since they are not prepared today, to discuss the essence and problem, the fundamental problem of this law, to allow the proponent to state the reasons for the need to adopt this law. No, I mean in order only.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13975	After the replica, I suggest we accept the proposal to explain that we can have a debate. Replica Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13976	Dear Chairman, I would like to rephrase this to the President of the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because he was discussing the law. And I'm asking the chairman not to discuss the law but to discuss the commission's report. When we discuss the law, if we do not accept the report, then we will enter this story that I now assume colleagues intend to enter. So here is the Commission's report and I ask the chairman to direct discussions towards the Commission's report and finally vote on the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13977	I thank Mr. Novaković. I gave what you just said to Mr. Novaković in an explanation before the debate was opened. Please, therefore, the debate is about the report and I thought that 38 legislators should be given priority when discussing the committee's report, only in that sense. Mr. Ćeman, here's an intervention if it's psolonic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13978	No, actually I'm sorry, I appreciate what counterpart Novaković said, he's a member of the Constitutional Commission. I don't think I've come out of my mandate to explain the report as chairman of the committee, I've talked about the report and I've come to the conclusion, and I won't have to say that we missed as a commission to state the reasons and the reasons. Let's just say we don't support principles and we don't support the law being passed. And since that's not listed in the report, I was just trying to say that those are the reasons and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13979	Replica Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13980	I'm a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I immediately called in to follow the Commission president's statement, and I want to say the following. So, Mr. President, don't get me wrong so far, it's all right when it comes to procedure and I don't complain about being too loud, Mr. Kunić, but that's what happens. I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything, no, I'm sorry. I want to say next. I agree completely with you that the report is a shrub, but you should have said a few arguments as to why the minority was to pass the law. Do you understand me? And you've put us in an unequal position. So, all right, and your arguments why it refused to pass the law is okay, but you should also specify the arguments that have been made, why it was necessary to pass the law in order for Parliament to be able to determine. So, you've come very biasedly to report, using the fact that the report, don't have to take time, here I won't say anything further. You've only made it impossible for us or for you to tell us what those people said, and I won't say who they were for it, those people who supported the adoption of this law and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13981	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. If you were looking for a replica right after Mr. Ćeman's explanation, you got as you are now. You applied for the debate, I recorded those who were for discussion and I gave the replicas to those who asked for a replica. One of them is Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13982	Here's not a replica, but I see this is going to take a while, and I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the HDZ Club, so we can all cool off. For an hour I can't ask on behalf of the club. Somebody else ask for this one right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13983	Please, since we have more reports to discuss, and since we have announced a break earlier, I suggest we stop the work now and continue working at exactly 14 o'clock. 39 Thank you very much. Ad.18. [[PAUZA]] Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property, proposed by Mr Križanović, with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report We have a debate. So Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Avdić. It's the order so far reported, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. I'm asking the MPs for it. We had time to rest and go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13984	I thank the chairman. On the basis of the arguments given by counterpart Ćeman on behalf of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it can be concluded in fact that the Commission has decided under this law, assessing that there is no need to pass this law. Let me, in that sense, appreciate your time and patience that I too concentrate on an argument that would try to show that this law, hence the Agency's law on the insurance of the forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of that property, is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Allow me in that sense a few arguments. First of all, you will agree that the general assessment of both the domestic and international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that organised crime and corruption, as well as the mafia action, are seriously present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and are jeopardising the foundations of state and society. So it's a reality that we need to take seriously and look for more efficient forms to fight that evil. On the subject, I think there are very large figures to be mentioned that are reducing Bosnia and Herzegovina's budgets. As a result, one of the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the third month of last year was quoted by the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina until last year, and I quote – making a comprehensive programme for the sequestration of assets acquired in criminal actions. In our basic reform document, which has become to say the platform of all of our reforms we are currently implementing, which is an encouraging document of business and justice. It has been said, I quote again, that the state and entity authorities must draft and lay down laws ordering seized funds acquired by criminal acts and establish, stressing the mechanisms for the implementation of these laws. Next. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as part of the international community, has international obligations in this regard, so I would like to call on the Convention on Money Laundering, Search, Swimming, the confiscation of property acquired through criminal actions. So it's about the Council of Europe Convention. It also states that the members of the Council of Europe must adopt the necessary legal and other measures to enable it to confiscate the acquired assets and to re-emphasise, through qualified bodies, the authorities are working with other countries on these issues. 40 I'd also like to remind you of session 4. The plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina when we discussed the priority reform measures on those there, 16 measures, and then the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina also concluded that it is one of the priority measures and the adoption of this law. The reason for the adoption of this law and the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have such an agency is based on the report by the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina right here. In the past year, according to the report, 39 cases in the area of economic crime have been prosecuted in the day of the Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and only 59,000 KM have been taken away. There is public support on the adoption of this law. I would especially point out the importance of the existence of this agency and of this law, and in the fact that in the situation where we have separate judicial, executive and legislative powers, this law allows for an effective accumulation of this agency according to the judicial authorities in which the freezing of property in the processing of cases is done very easily. And before that, it's the end of the trial. Because of the sensitivity and complexity of the legal and procedural to say access to this case, I would like to stress that this proposal has been approached very seriously and responsibly. The drafting of this proposal includes a number of experts with rights, economies, courts, prosecutors and all those institutions who could assess such a legal proposal. And I can seriously argue here and responsibly that the general assessment that this bill is based on the foundations of international conventions, and practices and experiences of some European countries, please pay attention to countries such as Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands and the Republic neighbouring Croatia. It is also a unique assessment that the proposal, from the point of view of existing legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is fully integrated into the existing legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there is nothing controversial about calling Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law on Criminal Procedure of the Law on Executive Administration, etc. So the existing law is fully respected by the existing legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it fully coordinates with all its provisions with the existing legal system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that these were very clear arguments and reasons that suggest the need for the adoption of this law and the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have an effective mechanism for the implementation of this law. I am convinced that the House will set itself up and, Mr. Chairman, allow me once again to report with one prepared conclusion if there is a positive determination of this house according to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13985	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself. Replica Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13986	sobzir that the report is on the agenda, I would like to replicate Mr. Križanović, and I would ask the chairman to direct the discussion in the direction of the commission's report, not to discuss the law. I'd like to not discuss the law, but the commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13987	Mr. Križanović's replica. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13988	I am indeed, as you have seen no provision from the law I am not mentioning. I was talking about the arguments that were actually against the arguments that were supposed to be against the commission's decision, as the commission said in its report that the law did not need Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's all I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13989	That's why I didn't interrupt. You saw it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13990	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13991	The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13992	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that today we are discussing a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Law on the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets acquired by criminal acts. Then it is necessary to say that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and after hearing Mr. Ćeman as the chairman of this committee who gave the argument why this law should not be adopted, has left out for me the essential essence of the climate talks and the clarification of a number of members of that same commission who were in favour of this law. We're too loud again. Thank you, I can see how you know how to find the appropriate word, Mrs. Palavrić, but it will come back to you at the end of your discussion. I remember that Mr. Belkić, if I supported him, I apologize if I forgot to say someone, because Professor Kunić was not at the session then, so he could not be too loud, but once answered Mr. Lagumdžija, it seems to me or Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13993	I don't know why it matters how anybody voted on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13994	It's because someone didn't say how we acted and how we had the argument. But I will come, Mr. Chairman, to that, so don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13995	I'm not nervous at all, I'm just being friendly. I could remind you a little bit and a little bit more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13996	Go ahead. I have my time at my disposal and I'll use it as I consider it best. Therefore, we have supported the text of this law and principles and essence, but everything that was in the commission today will be repeated in this House of Representatives in a way that we will not respect the position of the European Union, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, and we will not listen to a document of Business and Justice of 42 OHR, and you will not, if you remember, when I asked that in the plan of working this, this House of Representatives, as a priority to the obligations where we want to go towards Euro-Atlantic integration, one of the binding laws was precisely the Law on Pediling, bring it whatever you want to do after the name. You of the ruling SDS, HDZ and SDA parties supported by the PDP voted against it, but thanks to the BiH Party and the opposition, the bill was included in the assembly's work programme. But why did you forget that? You keep making some laws. Why didn't you just prepare it, so I would also tell Mr. Križanović as a promoter, I don't like this law of yours, there's some new law that will regulate relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And speaking of which, the biggest internal reform expected by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, let us release foreign initiatives and our desire for Euro-Atlantic integration. That's the kind of law. There's something going on here, and they want this law and citizens to make an ideal deal to pass the law, but we just didn't do it. 95% of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are waiting for such a kind of law as they have brought in time and the United States through the nidil- In addition to all these countries Mr Križanović spoke of from close to us Croatia, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy etc. [[You don't understand the word.]] Next, honest privates, people who deal with private businesses, who are honest people, they're not afraid of this law. Citizens want him, after 13 years, to understand in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or bring justice to those who have not paid taxes from this country, or robbed her in one way or another. And we're getting to the key now, which is that this congregation majority doesn't want that kind of law. For what? Is it because of the people who are around the government, or the government itself? Is this a cover-up of crime and theft in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because you in this assembly today, the majority of the congregation want to say - not such a law. You find a thousand reasons why we have institutions, that we don't need something new, which would be lacking in the reforms of Bosnia and Herzegovina that illegally which have acquired money in an illegal manner we, through the law in a fair procedure, come to financial resources as well as the United States when they asked Kenedi to do this, up to 5 billion German marks of the euro or dollars, however you will, come to such an amount and invest in the economy. Why not take from someone who has wrongly taken from the national wealth, or the wealth of these peoples and these citizens? I expect the assembly majority to consider, to conclude that this, to reject the Commission's report constitutionally-legal and thus return to the active position of this law, or if you will commit to passing a law within 30 days with such content or any such, but a law that will be effective. Do you have the courage in front of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that you will do so? It binds you to everything I said in the introduction. And Mrs. Sead Palavrić, in summary that you have proudly said in this assembly that you are implementing the Party of Democratic Action programme, do you have the courage to tell your membership, sympathisers and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that you will not support the law to take away what has been robbed from the same people and from the same people, both the Bosniak and the Croatian and other peoples and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you do, I'll give you a confession, if it means anything to you since I was little, and then I'll know you're on the right track. If you do not, if you are left behind, if it remains ailing after my words, not a replica that will make some excuses, I will consider you to be a reforming party and will resolve the internal reform that the citizens expect Bosnia and Herzegovina. And go back and lock it up. It is necessary to say just that because of the motion of Mr Križanović and the parties when I mention the SDA and the Social Democratic Party that raised the issue and I think it has a sense of what the citizens really want and probably there is no crime in their ranks, so they are not afraid to come to such a law, unlike the others who protect and I hope that Parliament will not be obstructing as it was in the Constitutional and Legal Commission when Mr Križanović is as a promoter, or SDP in this 43 case perhaps waited for months first to take someone out of the drawer, and then set out to stage obstructions that lasted so long until today when we again have an obstruction on the scene, or a statement that will not be in the interest of all. I had a need, Mr. Chairman, here's to say, given your intrusions when I started speaking. A bit of a joke, but this is cruel indeed, and I believe that we should really think about it, because after this statement, a lot of things will be different in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would like you to personally give that tone in the sense that we reject the Constitutional-Law Commission report because there was a political cuisine, the political interests of some of the parties I was talking about, and in this way, if we refuse to show the public that we in Parliament and above all protected the interests of the citizens, and indeed you will all be able to go at the time of the election campaign that awaits us in the local elections. I'm kind of helping you
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13997	As usual
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13998	to get citizens' support, but of course on the reform course. As a man and a Democrats, I can give my hand to anyone who is going towards reforms and who wants to address internal reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that through the procedure of thieves in Bosnia and Herzegovina who today in Bosnia and Herzegovina are actually putting the government where they belong, which is behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u13999	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Before, two replicas, since you mentioned my name, Mr. Gligorić, I'll just tell you that I intervened that you don't have to mention other members of the commission. Any member of the commission can explain his position on the commission in front of this house. For no other reason. I think that should be some practice and principle. If anyone senses that they're elaborated on the commission, he'll do it and be allowed to do it, enabled, and other things, we don't need to do it here so black and white because this is about two approaches. Don't impute here that someone doesn't want illegal property to come back to people. I'm throwing it away as president on behalf of this entire house. We also heard one irrelevant argument from the chairman of the Commission that there was enough legal regulatory institutions to do so. The other thing is why they don't do it. So I think the quality of it would be to make one debate why it's not done, whether these institutions can or can't, then everyone would contribute to coming, if we say in advance, we won't, you won't, we will, I think. I'm sorry that I'm too, and I appreciate your approach, but I think I needed to say this. Mrs. Palavrić, so Mr. Ćeman, replicas. That's the procedure, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14000	I want to ask Mr Gligorić again not to worry about the votes the SDA receives and I wouldn't change with the party he represents. So I think our path is real. When it comes to the proposed law, I want a million times to repeat it as a lawyer, Mr Gligorić, and as a politician, to claim that there are quite enough laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina that prescribe 44 to confiscate illegally acquired property, taken from thieves, taken from thieves who have acquired it by criminal acts. So it exists. Let's all do what the judicial authorities are supposed to do, so the courts, the prosecution, the police, let them work and let everyone they prove to have acquired the property by illegal act take it away with the punishment they're about to receive. It exists. However, here is Mr. Gligorić in the act of politicizing and trying only to make it appear to you that someone may have acquired something illegal, you have the opportunity to immediately confiscate the property that you assume is illegally acquired. That's not gonna work in the rule of law. However you qualify it, it won't be possible. I'm asking you not to try to set things up the way you set things up. If you want the real truth, really to help, if you don't think there's enough rules that allow illegally acquired assets to be taken away, you go ahead, you do a review, you're a lawyer. Do a review of all the laws I'm calling for and tell me that in which one of them is missing an instrument to confiscate illegally acquired assets. So please do it. And don't introduce me to a country where the Inquisition will rule, represent anyone who's against anarchy and human rights violations that he's actually for thieves, because I consider myself both an honest and a pretty good lawyer and a pretty good politician, actually a politician. And please don't continue with any lessons, I say again, I am pleased with how much my party is accomplishing, I will continue to conduct politics in Parliament
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14001	Please, MPs, it's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14002	that policy is implemented when the law is passed. If we didn't know. We need to learn what's done in Parliament. And I plead to support the commission's report, and whoever claims that there are not enough instruments to choose to find the provisions of the laws in which it is missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14003	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Replica Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Potočnik. Please make the replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14004	I apologize, no, no, please, I won't apologize anymore, but I, this is not a replica, but I am therefore an authorised rapporteur from the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I answer in that capacity. It was an objection, fellow Members of mine, that I, as chairman, did not present any different views that were heard on the committee. That's true, but the commission delivered the report, I said when we met, and then I really made a mistake not explaining in writing what I said today orally and I wasn't obliged and it is now my understanding report, I was obliged to explain why the commission didn't accept the principles and why the commission didn't accept the need to pass the law. I've explained it, and of course it's an opportunity for colleagues to, if especially if it gets into the procedure of the law that then we cross arguments should or should not. So I explained the Commission's position that, why she didn't accept the principles and why she didn't need the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14005	That's clear, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14006	kolega Gligorić, I apologize, please give the right argument for your position, not your political position. Because I'm trying to look at it legally. I guess no one argues that the property should be taken here by thieves based on a proven procedure in the procedure, but this is about whether or not an institution should be taken to an existing institution. Is that a question? Not if you need to take away the property. And don't politicize it any other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14007	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14008	This is a replica, Mr. Chairman. I know it's a little funny, but let's work and let's not allow it, you as chairman don't let each other be accused of any work and party work. Let's focus on what our job is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14009	Thank you very much, I've kind of tried that already. I don't want to intervene so much, I don't want to restrict my representatives. Anyone can say what they want. Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14010	Well, here's after the president's re-informed commissions I can agree with what's been said and I think he did his part of the job correctly, in a way that he couldn't agree on in this part where he didn't feel he was obliged to state the argument of another species. But good. It's a matter of approach now. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I would like to highlight a few of the things that have been carried out in the discussion and which would be good to bear in mind when voting on the report. In fact, the fact is that we had a complete consensus, and I believe that so do those who were not present that all that was illegally acquired should be taken away. There's really no dilemma. We had a consensus there and the truth that we differed whether the existing structure, i.e. the legal framework that exists in this country, could meet the requirements etc. argumetnacija was for and against, so I'm going to talk about this argument against. So part of the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission felt that the existing structure and capacity and competence of institutions and the legal framework was clearly confirmed through statistics, through data does not correspond to this function and bearing in mind the scale and dimensions of crime and external manifestations of rich people, believing that no institution specialized and dedicated, of course, with strict harmonisation with the existing system and within the law, does not come to mind that on the basis of suspicions with... people would be very helpful in restoring people's trust that there is a system and may have changed the way of thinking and systemic values where it seems appreciated that someone had managed well. Look at the man who did well, look at the house, look at the property, look at the cars, etc. So the argument was that it was true that there was a system and a law, etc., but that their capacity and competence to not say still depends on politics etc. such a nature that it cannot speak of what is necessary to change both the system of thinking and restore citizens' trust in the institutions of government. 46 So I recommend that this law go further, of course the report is rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14011	Thank you very much. Are you staying at the replica, Mr. Gligorić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14012	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to cut the maximum price and time for the other debaters. You are Mrs. Sead Palavrić and perhaps not by accident and Mr. Ćeman stressed in his discussions that we have institutions and that there is no need to change anything. You told Mrs. Sead and used the word "legal state." After these years of ruling during the war and the gate, if you'd shut down a thief, prosecuted the institutions you say they have, and there's no need for a new one, I'd give you my hand. Go find a thief who's gone to jail, who's enormously rich in this country, who didn't even have a beam of onions before that, or came with a plastic bag, and today they have empires. That's why I would raise my voice in terms of what citizens want, because I, as an MP, must speak their language. At any gathering, it hurts them in this country. And then when I talk about it here you say, you mention the Inquisition, the Middle Ages. Is that what you think I should do, that I'm... in it, so that's the truth, so that's the justice this Parliament needs to determine. Why do we run away from it with even those words from the Middle Ages? And when you speak to the rule of law and, in fact, party policy determines how this country works, and that's politics, a destructive, dangerous and difficult for this people. It's no problem that some MP gets up here and talks and politicizes, that's not the problem. The problem is when, in the institutions of the system behind the party's curtains, they run the state in an unprincipled way, and that's a dangerous policy, it's not a legal state, functional that has mechanisms. I call on you again, Mr. Ćeman and Sead, to deal with other lawyers, if we have to make a law here where we will also have mechanisms and purpose and purpose, but we will have to face the fact that some in your ranks must be processed. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14013	Time, Mr. Gligorić. Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go. Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Ćeman, I didn't see it. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14014	My colleague Gligorić, you have no reason to mention me. I speak for the Constitutional Commission people understand if you understand me. And I'm saying that neither the Constitutional Commission nor the authority of this home has stepped into the protection of criminals. Do you hear that, man? The Constitutional Commission has expressed its legal view that there are sufficient legal instruments to sanction and confiscate illegally acquired assets. It's a legal point of view. And you keep telling the political dictionaries instead of the legal ones. I will now tell you the same as the rapporteur on behalf of the Constitutional Commission that even if that is true, what you said was that some were judicial, prosecutorial, these or those in the structures of the government so far are not, if that was true, ready to function. Well, Mr. Gligorić's lawyer says whether there's an obsolescence or not to prosecute or enforce criminal sanctions. Mr. Gligorić, there is a general minimum and a general maximum of obsolescence. He is under the Law of Criminal Law 3, or 35 years for individual crimes. So you're also the point of view there's an instrumentium that's been chasing you if it's not being pursued by Gligorić or X and Ipsilon so far. Please don't talk politics, I'm advocating my professional pave 47 authority. I challenge whoever you want, whoever worked for you on this bill. I'll prove to you that you've made a confusing law. You won't know what the tax administration, the financial police, etc. will do. It's my legal opinion, but it's not, please, but my legal opinion isn't that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14015	Mr. Cemane time, I must warn you
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14016	Let me call you by your name. I speak for the Constitutional Commission. I'm defending the Constitutional Commission's position as bodies that don't exactly care about protecting criminals. That's not true. And second, when are we gonna talk about the law? So that's why it is here, I'm saying in favor of the fact that it's not necessary to pass the law, because it's an organisational nature, and that's what I said at first to form an institution, and institutions exist. And if, please, if we don't agree here, allow me, don't just mention me personally now, because I'm speaking, and so far I've been speaking as rapporteur from the Constitutional Commission, defending her position. When we come to the law, I'll make an effort to point out in the law exactly where the weaknesses of other nature are. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14017	Replica Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Duraković. You don't have to be impatient, I mean the Rules of Procedure, whoever answers will get the word. Come on, I think we respect each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14018	I have to say, this time I'm not very disillusioned that Mr Gligorić is not talking about the law which is the subject of our debate. I'm not really used to Mr. Gligorić talking about the law. He's always politicizing. I will not say that Mr. Radišić has been a member of the presidency in these years that you criticise when the thieves are not persecuted. I won't! I'll leave it to you. But in order for someone to be a thief and to be able to tell him that he is a thief, a legally prescribed procedure must be carried out, and the court must make a decision. And what Mr. Gligorić supports with Mr. Križanović is just a vain increase in the administration. Agency at the agency. Gentlemen, if we were this quick to bring the company to the company, so to hire people, that would be fantastic. This is an administration job. But the administrations of gentlemen who, according to your proposal of the law, need to proceed with the forced confiscation of property even before criminal proceedings, before criminal proceedings. So what is it? It's the Inquisition.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14019	Please, Mrs. Palavrić, let's stick to the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14020	Yeah, I'm talking about the commission report, I'm talking about why we rejected the law, why the law, I'm talking about the law that I'd like Gligorić to say. He's not getting into it. So I claim that this law is inquisition, that there are sufficient resources and I ask Mr Gligorić if he will talk about the law, then let's talk about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14021	Thank you. Mr. Duraković. Here, Mr. Gligorić, you really are today's treatment and please don't. There are other people here who want to replicate. Every time you get your word. Please, Mr. Gligorić, I really don't think you're, at least, correct, because Mr. Duraković asked for the same thing earlier, I have to give it to others. Well, that's what the Rules of Procedure is and he'll refer to what you're going to refer to and what you'd be first.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14022	I'll just have a few clarifications, because I'm a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I don't like it when someone ad hoc generally speaks for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14023	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14024	I, of course, have a completely different opinion than the Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, but that doesn't matter. I just haven't been to that session, and that's why I'm taking this opportunity to just say a few sentences. I don't know why this House is afraid to enter into this bill. If heMirsade bad, then let's try to get him back to the commission or the expert group, etc. This is the key to whether we need this law at all, or not? Here's what you don't think is necessary, and I'm convinced that only a few arguments are needed. In addition to this similar law, it is almost identical in much more orderly legal states of the world than this poor Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was brought to Italy, it was brought to Belgium, it was brought to the Netherlands, it was recently brought to Russia, it was brought to Croatia for some years, it was brought to a powerful, legal state such as Austria and was brought to a number of others, even recently in Russia, etc. And according to all the findings of international expert groups, commissions, etc. bribery and corruption most in Europe reign in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, what the people call an all-out thief. It is obvious that the existing system institutions are not doing their job. And now you need to see that there would be no overlapping of jurisdiction, etc. to bring in one who says lexespecialist who would exclusively deal with this crime and no one thinks it would immediately be some way to say the Suad Inquisitorian relationship, etc., but it is a task to actually get additional mechanisms into the end of the universal abduction and the robbers of this country. That would, I don't think anyone can deny the need for such a law. And whether or not they contain laws proposed by law. I'm about to think big, make it if you need expert groups and help even international experts, so let's rewrite something from those countries that are actually much more orderly with greater experience, with greater intelligence, etc. etc. And that's how it goes out, and that's where it turns out that we can't put this law on the agenda. And now all we have to do is decide on the commission's report. Well, here's what if it were me and Kunić on that committee, I don't know what it would have been like to just report and if that's how it would have been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14025	Thank you very much. I will only remind you, therefore, that the College of this House has made it possible, therefore, that although the Rules of Procedure did not precisely regulate the fate of the law, after the principles were not supported by the relevant committee, not to stop the procedure, but that the House could make a statement about it and that it was done, that by 49 it was now quite a different practice. So here you should focus on the content of the problem, not calling on people to obstruct the process of confiscation of illegally acquired assets. We all have the opportunity to give our opinion through the debate on the Commission's report and the procedure itself. Replica Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Križanović. Did you look for a replica of Mr. Križanović? Well, Mr. Križanović, and just because of the representatives who called for the debate, I will say that Mr. Avdić, Mr. Lagumdžija, is Mr. Bešlagić, I have, you are not Mr. Novaković, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14026	did not turn on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14027	It's not exactly true, Mr. Moranjkić, but you're all sensitive today, so we'll appreciate that it's due to time oscillations. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14028	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my basic message would be that if we were in a situation like this where a great mistrust, where it is a single robbery of the people, it would be a good thing for Parliament to pass a law at that time, because that way the citizens' trust in the institutions is restored, because you can't handle it regularly, because citizens don't believe it. Who's to blame doesn't matter now. But if you want to restore trust after some evil citizen, then you have to characterise it as an inquisition, an emergency law, an extraordinary institution, and it was a message, and that's why I'm saying it as an inquisition, etc. It doesn't stand. And when Mrs. Palavrić said that a decision should be made in the procedure, she must make a court, etc., it's all right, but we must remember the past system when you, the national parties said at the time of the communists that it was total 50 years, but he was also the director of the communists, but he stole the buildings, but he went to prison as communist director in that totalitarian regime. Who has now gone from national parties to prison, and has robbed forests and fields, people say, is not exactly national Novaković's party.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14029	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14030	And I end up with this that it's not correct of Mr. Ćeman to push through his opinion because within the Constitutional and Legal Commission he spoke as a member and what he was saying as a member it's today in consideration he put it as if it were the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and in this way he's perfiduously hiding from the Commission 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14031	Please, Mr. Gligorić. We need to intervene here because we have a written report from the commission and we have an explanation and I think it's really wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14032	No, no. Someone's hiding behind the commission, and Suada's behind the real state. That's the point. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14033	Thank you, sir, but I had to intervene here because I think it was really necessary to intervene with Mr. Ćeman's role as chairman of the committee. Mr. Sead Avdić, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14034	Mr. Chairman very briefly, assuming that some of the colleagues did not read freshly to say this bill, I had to intervene because of the alleged colleague Palavrić. It's not about the agency as an institution that's going to be some kind of inquisition, that's going to take something away. Nothing about the bill, please, has been read or maligned, deliberately interpreted. Nothing happens without a court, without a prosecutor's office, without all existing institutions of justice and investigation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And please pay attention, it's about the agency, about the insurance, I'm asking you to confiscate illegal property. So nothing the agency itself can do without the judiciary and what is very important again in the management of that property. There's only that much. We didn't discuss the law, but I think I did, I felt the need to correct this wrong warrant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14035	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. The debate Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not so stable or sustainable that it cannot be discussed, which means that it can be subject to criticism and in this context it is certain that the argument on the other side that stands has the feeling that the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not end or respect it or at its meeting has not taken that into account. And the following should be considered – eight years after the war Bosnia and Herzegovina located as a country of corruption, bribery, grey economy, human trafficking, drugs, drug routes, etc. So an assessment that is unspeakable, it has been introduced by both the international community and the simple reality of the one that is ruling in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, we fought poverty and made a simple anti-corruption strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 51 The third thing in 2003, only a year ago in the Board of Peace Implementation Board, warns the BH authorities and warns that it is necessary to create a fight programme, to take away the property so unlawfully acquired, criminal acts, etc. etc. Well, we're not gonna let that go for those four years of war that was going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are we, so these tycoons war special, just stay on stage in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So a lot of political reasons were that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, perhaps a little withholding its so-called unspeakable proposals, simply reconsidered. She couldn't just ignore these political reasons I'm talking about. In the end, it was also the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the Council of Ministers had offered this programme, there would probably be no need for this law, which means there are needs. Finally, the next fact should be pointed out. Do we really have a legal state in Bosnia and Herzegovina until the end? We don't. Do we have established BH institutions as a whole, have we implemented these laws that we have passed? Not yet. So we still have an open field of action for crime, criminals and all the basic features of the Bosnian Herzegovic society, without telling you what kind of separation comes to rich and poor and that we have 95% of people who are really on the verge of existence, and 5% of people who simply live out of the absence and inability to fight adequate methods of fighting crime and corruption. It means that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I repeat once again, had to or should have respected these political reasons. She gave the constitutional legal basis, and these political reasons, she feels that they were partly underestimated and the Fourth, the prosecution authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, are they functioning in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Hardly. That's the problem. We have made laws, institutions established, but no one connects those institutions. We don't have a unique system of how to get to the criminal charges of people. So did you talk to the D.A., etc? How do you get a criminal record? Who's gonna do that? Criminal law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who will implement it? Criminal law at entity level, you know it well, and among the entities no one cares about it. Do you know? Which means that there is simply plenty of empty space for this agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do its job. I can accept that the law is not perfect, that the law has its drawbacks, that simple law should be done, etc. put it in the criminal legal framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether its rightful position and these agencies is as it is, etc. Don't try to discredit a document like this that is useful with ideological simple jobs and that is simply the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina expect. Thank you again. It's hard to refuse this law, Mr. Chairman. It's hard to say no. We just need to figure out a way out of this situation. I propose not to stop the parliamentary procedure, not to refuse, to extend or return this opinion to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to return it, to review it once more, and in that context I would ask that the proposal of this law be delivered to the Council of Ministers from the aspect of the relations between the international community and those obligations that were before the Council of Ministers and that in this context we have all relevant opinions after the position, the final position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Council of Ministers to try to continue with this law with the goodwill of the promoters and the gratitude of Mr Križanović and others who had both the strength and the courage, and the wisdom to propose this law in parliamentary procedure. Once again, this law is difficult to refuse and stop the parliamentary procedure of this law. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14037	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagudmžij.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14038	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is perfectly natural for me to join those who feel that this law should go further into the procedure, but I am obliged to give an argument based only on what is necessary to give another kind of argument, or which was presented by the chairman of the commission. To remind you, it has been 22 months since this law was written and adopted by the previous Parliament and the Peace Implementation Council that under the document Business and Justice this should be on the agenda. It has been exactly 15 months since the Peace Implementation Council for the Council of Ministers said this should be done in line with the document Business and Justice. It's been 12 months since I asked the Council of Ministers to do this in accordance with the commitments made by the Peace Implementation Council and then said - if you don't do it, we will do it as our contribution to speeding up reforms because maybe they can't make it from other reforms, here we will do it in 3 months if you can't. And then, with the widest support of both the public and experts of non-party persons, after a broad debate, we came to this law which, as the chairman already said, was given in parliamentary procedure nine months ago. One of the reasons why this is necessary, because it is necessary for this country to really be divided into honest people and those who are not to stop sharing people on other grounds that make us all more poor than it would be and that is why this law as a kind of even cathartic law is necessary, if I may say so. I would also like to clarify some of the dilemmas put here by a member of the President of the Constitutional Commission. Why, say, this law hasn't been passed before? It is precisely because he is in the turn of the entire vote – the formation of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the establishment of the BiH Court, the adoption of the Law of Criminal Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then this law that relies on this is not a double job, but it is he who is practically complementary with these institutions working on a specific problem which is a problem and a much more serious state in which some have spoken as well as my colleague Duraković and many others who need this as a problem specifically attacked. If that's the problem, I can't understand the argument that we don't need this because there are already other laws that solve it, that don't work until today. No budget or budget has been paid to any mark resulting from the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. It's known that people went away for a few years, even months, for millions of robberies and got out of prison, and that's what's left of them. It's familiar stuff. So it's obvious that the existing legal framework doesn't give the system's institutions enough responsibility to do what we're talking about here. There's another reason why I think we, Mr. Chairman, are bound to do something about this. And I'm going to suggest conclusions specifically on this point on the agenda. You see, lately, we have witnessed very orchestrated attacks that often come from the highest representatives of the international community, which are about to come down to the fact that all BH politicians are thieves, criminals. Namely, it goes to everyone, everyone, everyone. And we are the top of this political... chosen citizens' will. It's perfectly natural to reflect it in public in one way that I want to just draw attention to those who are first, who have seen it before to remind them of it. You can see relevant international public-change research that points to the question of ordinary men who are the biggest winners in the last 10 years, second place are war profiters, third place criminals, and first of all politicians. 53 So, people think that when you deal with politics that you are, by definition, a bigger criminal than the heads of organized crime, than what they call war profiteers. So we owe it, among other things, or to say it's true, or to show by our work that we are ready to divide ourselves here into those who are not and that we are all equally responsible for the law. That's why we have an obligation, you Mr. Chairman that we stand for, we believe that the largest number of people and, at the very least, I would know about someone here if they didn't belong to them, so to speak to that group of people, I wouldn't be having any conversation with them. So why are we putting ourselves in a position to, no matter what we say, Mirsad dear, I'm telling you right now, you can tell what you want, but your discussion is going to be read tomorrow as protection of criminals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14039	did not turn on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14040	Well, that's what I'll really say if you stay in that position so you know. No, here I am. That's why I'm looking. I'll be there by then. Mr. Chairman, I will ask you that, in accordance with Article 67(3), the electronic vote that we have, that since there is here, if I should show you that there are 1/3 of the MPs asking for it, I can also write to you in writing if necessary, just give me a minute's break and you will get and in writing, that the results of this vote are registered by name and last name and by the Rules of Procedure to be given to the public. It's a minimum of what we want. No problem at all. There's no problem. So, only when we get to the vote. I'd ask you to accept it that way, so people can say what they want about it. I also want to say very clearly, we're going to this, we're already a colleague of Ćeman's right when he says there are some technical problems here, that the law can work on some things, since the law has practically been in the procedure for more than 9 months, we've had a large number of expert public debates and even wrote to us people. We have printed this law in several thousand copies, divided it into relevant addresses by expert associations, professional associations. We have received a large number of really correct and useful suggestions that we ourselves, in terms of improving the text, are going to make amendments. In other words, we won't give up on this law, we just want to know who's where. So let's let everyone evaluate what they think about it. We'll also, I mean, not only do we know, we have a plan when it comes to this. We have a plan to get to this law. If this Parliament does not have the strength, we will ask the High Representative, then we will declare him a protector of criminals and thieves. I want you to know right away. There are no secrets, all the way to the end. And then someone else will come after us and do this, so they shouldn't have any illusions. That is why I propose the conclusion, Mr. Chairman, that we send a message that we are not all the same, so that we are not all thieves and that we show people that we are ready to answer for what we have acquired and that this is not a law against the rich, but that this is a law against the illegal and crime of the rich, and that we are not a law of the rich, and therefore, in the light of today's conclusions, I am asking Mr. Chairman that, in addition to this law, we are as parliament, to show that we are not all alike and that we are prepared to face it, to conclude that this law, when adopted, should immediately begin with us, that all MPs of both homes, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the leaders of parliamentary parties. Enough. One 70 people to make it nice. And I also think that regardless of today's, so even whoever's with this argument against this law, I suppose they'll accept another conclusion, which is that we're asking the competent institutions, those who claim to exist and do so, that in the next three months the preparation and start the process will check by 54 applicable laws and these principles for this particular group of 60-70 people who run this country by Zlatko Lagumdžija, Joza Križanović, selo Bešlagić, and that I don't pick up, whoever wants. So let's take off unnecessary labelling, because none of us want to be in the company of those people, so I would ask Mr. Chairman to bring this point to an end when it is time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14041	Thank you very much. Like other points of the agenda, I'm not making any difference between this and the others, everything is here and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and this one will be brought in. Mr. Lagumdžija, all you have to do with your proposals, please deliver in writing. It's the only way they'll be respected here and inside the College. You have time. Now, Mr. Novaković was registered for discussion, and he's not here. The next gentleman is Moranjkić. Here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14042	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about this law. The idea and essence of this law by me are basically both moral and proper and necessary. Once again, I repeat both moral and proper and necessary, and those three categories would not be explained for the sake of time. I think we're all aware of what that means. Secondly, this law is called for by the realizations of justice and trying to do anything in this dark time and I mean when it comes to that position and in that light it shouldn't give much resistance to something in that field to do. The truth is we have institutions, we have a partially legally covered regulation, but it's even more true that in that field, and I'm going to call it a crime field, which is the cancer of this country's wounds, this society, us all, is doing nothing. That can't, that my finding can't, or a very small percentage can argue, or she's there and we're all witnesses. I think these structures dealing with these problems, and they are listed, including legislation, are not working. I don't know why, or I'm kidding, we all know why they don't work and why the situation is like this in this country. So, thinking and working as a politician, and probably these people who got the strength, found time to try to do something in that field, in a certain way, they didn't go to understand it in the new legislation, and they suggested that it see the light of the day and try to do something about it, because there was a conclusion that this existing and institutional and legislative regulation wasn't doing what it might do. And I don't see it as a human, not as a politician, and my vote is to let this law go into procedure. True, there are probably many unsaid things in the technical solutions of this law. I'm afraid of questioning, under the alleged signs of origin of the property from that system, in which I was struck and I, in which the law was abused to be put in prison with political inexplicables, etc. etc. I was struck by that law and was with total movable and immovable property of 19 and a half thousand marks. Total movable and immovable assets. But I was hit. So these laws in a certain way, if they have such indetermination and the ability to abuse them, they're inquisition, etc. to work out the next time when we could leave here to see the light day of the phenomenon in a month two days to complete it and to make one moral commitment 55 of our citizens and the people expect us to finally say e here we have made next to and another and now to see who won't, or who will, or who doesn't, who's on the blacklist and who's not on the blacklist. So once again, I suggest that the report of the commission is not accepted, that the law be released into the procedure, that time be given to it, and that we all go to work and work it out, because I don't think the bill promoter is rigid, that there says this item is not good, this is how we solve it, this one we'll take the standards, these we'll take instruments etc. And I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that we continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14043	Thank you. Mr. Živković. Did you contact Mr. Novaković about the hearing? I called you. That's not why you were here. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14044	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just for a short while, I would like to put my position before the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats. We have been before, and we are now at the point that we need to have a proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency so that we feel that we should not vote here on the Commission report, but on the need to have this law. So we think that we need to have this law and that law, given its complexity, does not have a legal, constitutional legal basis, but similar to the law, you remember what it's called, about the property that was previously taken away, so, restitution, the Restitution Act that we left enough time until the new year to be quality-proposed. I, and now in front of the NSD, suggest that we set a reasonable time for which this law will be quality prepared and proposed to this home. So this vote today states only the need for this law to be passed, and we give it to our commission, together with the Council of Ministers' proposal and representatives, that within a reasonable period we consider it 2 months, to give this assembly a new, or proposal for this law. And I think that should be our conclusion and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14045	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Džaferović. I signed you up for a hearing, only if you gave up. I had a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14046	I checked in, but I'm sorry I wasn't in line when I was supposed to. If you don't give your word, you won't lose much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14047	You have the word, Mr. Novaković. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14048	Thank you very much. Namely, I'll do it very briefly. So I guess I don't need to mention that I and this club are meant for everything that's provided for in this law to be done. That's perfectly normal. The way it should be done is now a completely different question. Whether in the way they predict this law or in the way they predict existing laws, I must say that I have confidence in existing institutions, even though I did not influence their creation. But I trust them to do the job. We didn't give them enough chance to do it, and I think they can do it and we should leave them time. As for, therefore, here's a statement, I think we're pleading whether or not we trust existing institutions. In fact, by voting for the commission's report, we show that we have confidence, and by voting against the commission's report that we have no confidence. I see it that way. Not in the way of fighting crime, corruption, etc. And so on, as already indicated here. As far as the law itself is concerned, I have to be honest that he hasn't initiated any special attention from me. I don't think he's worth any special attention, so I haven't thought about him much, I haven't even read much. What I have heard here many times today is a call to the citizens, and about the citizens have been invited by those who are least trusted by the citizens. Gentlemen, the wishes of the citizens, their beliefs and trusts are articulated in voices. They will also be so articulated in the future, and likely after the next elections, those who swear most to the citizens today will be disappointed with those citizens and want to change those citizens. From what I've said, the SDS Club will vote for the commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14049	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14050	It is not exactly a replica, it may be an incorrect allegation to an esteemed colleague to say that this state is as arranged as other countries are in the environment, I will take the example of Slovenia and that we would put a referendum on this law, Mr Novaković would only then see who the citizens of this country most believe in and who would get the most votes. So don't say that we don't need this law to replace the thesis, because it seems to me that this referendum went in favor of those who say we don't need this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14051	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović. The wrong quote before that, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14052	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the wrong allegation is that Mr. Novaković spoke about citizens' trust in the moral parties, a guilty allegation is that as national parties, you produced such events in Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was more national than the economy that objectively appeared to those people when it came to national threat and each flock simply returned. You've fabricated it, and therefore we'll see who gets citizens' trust once these citizens' life issues are on the agenda. 57 Therefore, what you are now talking about in front of people, I will say that when we stand in the fight against wartime profiteers, Mr. Novaković says that few of the parties do not have pneumoiere, so I will see if he or Mr. Novaković is going to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14053	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14054	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take my discussion as an attempt to ensure that this Parliament, meeting its constitutional obligations, is constantly checking whether its protection mechanisms, including in the fight against crime and taking away what has been illegally acquired, should have done what to do on these mechanisms to build them up, to be more effective in order for the state to fight more successfully against all forms of definitive, including criminal behaviour. I therefore belong to a group of those MPs who feel that Parliament has an obligation to follow it constantly, that Parliament has an obligation to constantly review existing mechanisms, but also Parliament must be responsible and must know that on the other hand this is all very closely linked to democracy, human rights, European international standards, and that I am immediately aware that I am not against any mechanism that has been checked, tested in developed democratic countries. In that context, I also understood Mr. Ćeman, the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and his argument as he explained the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, I don't think anyone in this room should be in this room or I claim that there isn't or shouldn't be in this room anyone who's opposed to taking away illegally acquired property. I am, too, Mr. Lagumdžija and you, as well, to start from here in Parliament, but only between you and me is there probably some small difference in approach. I advocate that it be done in a way that will respect modern democratic achievements in the area of criminal proceedings applied in the world. Who knows how many times I've spent my life dealing with this kind of work, sort of this kind of work, and when I look at this law, and to explain what I want to ultimately propose, I'm going to have to look back on the content of the law. And that's why, Mr. Chairman, don't be angry that I'm going to do it, because I can't explain it differently, I can't explain it otherwise. Look, this law, by its essence, means that a state body should be formed to ensure illegally acquired property that is not alienated, until the competent authorities, courts and everything else determines the existence, or the existence of a criminal act and confirm it or do not confirm it. That's the meaning of this law. This is the meaning of this law. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, just listen to me, please. I have, I'm going to suggest, I know why I'm saying this all together. So, today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a judicial authority that and the prosecutions who are competent to deal with these affairs. A special section of the government, as is known, is divided into executive, legislative and judicial authority and please now, the work that is under the Law of Criminal Procedure in the jurisdiction of the courts is the Law on Criminal Procedure knows such a mechanism that is proposed here, but the Code of Criminal Procedure, unlike this law, deals with the smallest details, because in such matters and the smallest details must be governed by the law. Article 4 of this law says that the Agency is an independent state body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration. I am now asking a question – will this be an authority in the field of administration, or will it be an authority in the field of judicial authority? The Agency shall be managed by the Director appointed and resolved by the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. He's got a deputy. Should this director have a judicial exam, be a graduate lawyer and have a number of years of 58 experiences like judges and prosecutors? Because this is the work of prosecutors and judges, which we're talking about now. The law doesn't talk about it. The Agency has three departments, the Research and Documentation Department, the Department of Security of Forced Disposal of Assets and the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets. Is this the new police we're forming in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is this the new police we form in Bosnia and Herzegovina? The director's setting up and dismissing the department's executives. Please, Mr Gligorić, in carrying out his duties, the Agency has been working together with the competent authorities of other countries and has been assisting them in accordance with the Convention on Money Laundering, Searching, Swimming and Confiscation obtained through the criminal actions of the Council of Europe since 8.11.1990. I am for all the documents of the Council of Europe to be incorporated into the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and if we need to send this text to the Council of Europe to say whether it can withstand the tests that I have been talking about, because I say again, this Parliament is obliged to constantly review the mechanisms at its disposal in order to fight all forms of definitive and criminal behaviour as successfully as possible. He says this in Article 9. - Agency workers have the authority to enter any property, or in the room where it is now listed, as are the names of these cases. And then you say down there, of course you can get into someone else's apartment, you know how, who has to give approval, right? And then finally, it is said: entering into the property or premises of the person of the member will be carried out in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are said to have the right, right, and then they talk about applying the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The following is, of course, indicated, the procedure to ensure the forced confiscation of the funds, revenues or assets referred to in Article 12(1) of this Act will lead to a decision on the measure of insurance, etc., to determine the court to judge for, which is indeed the place in charge of the crime of a particular species. And then it is said - the forced insurance procedure, the withdrawal of income or property of this law is initiated by the Agency under official duty. If this is a new prosecutor, this has been a public prosecutor's job so far. I just want to know that, please. I don't, please, I don't mind if we build the mechanisms. I'm just asking if this is a new prosecutor, or if I'm asking all of us, is this the new prosecutor? On a proposal from the Agency, the Court will determine the measure to ensure the forced confiscation of income or property resulting from a criminal offence if there is now a right to appeal to that solution. Which court is the appeal? Please, nice. I don't see the answer to that question. The request, be careful with this, the request by the Agency to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 11 of this Act shall contain a brief factual description of the offence and its legal name. General and elements of the entity's crimes through a factual description and their legal names can only be done by people who know it, who have certain conditions and not by accident prescribed by the law that prosecutors and judges do so. I don't see it here from this law. And that I'm not counting now. I have cited only a few, I have understood several more cases here, reading this law, so I feel, therefore, I repeat myself for the third time that Parliament has an obligation to reconsider its mechanisms, but it also has an obligation not to fall into a trap. That is why I am that any illegally acquired property is taken away and that anyone who has acquired illegal property is processed for the criminal activity he has committed. But I am also in order for our country's legal system to be consistent and that our country's legal system dealing with this problem is standardised with European standards, with democratic standards that apply everywhere in the world. In several cases, or several examples, by reading this law, I wanted to show you that this is not done in this way, that this is not done in this way, because if we were to adopt the law in this text in which we have it we would have chaos in practice, and the chaos in practice in these things is, please nicely, please, please, I'm paying good attention to what I'm saying just listen to me please. That is why I propose that this home, I think that Mr. Živković has made a very correct proposal that is on the trail of not politicising, but of resolving the problem, to make this home a request to the Council of 59 ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if we have to say and there must be expert groups of judicial, prosecutorial, and abroad to tell us what it is that we need to do in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system in order to have a more effective system to fight these phenomena. If Bosnia and Herzegovina has a normatively good system, and this system does not apply, then it is not a problem in norm, and we are talking about norm here, but it is a problem in those who do not apply it and should not then attack the norm, but rather attack those who do not apply it. And if, therefore, this can be an exit, one way out of this situation, and if that analysis shows that it is necessary to build up the Criminal Procedure Act by making its chapter on the temporary confiscation of property suspected of being illegally acquired, then if it is necessary to build up this chapter let's build on it to chapter, but it is known who is then doing so in the Criminal Procedure Act. If the analysis shows that Bosnia and Herzegovina is insufficient, and you are saying that there are European countries that have such laws that, if the analysis shows that the existing legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina is insufficient, that it is impossible to do so through the Law on Criminal Procedure and that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs such a law, but of course with precise provisions, I will support such a law and vote therefore on such a law. In this situation, such text as was offered cannot go through serious criticism, cannot pass through the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I fully understand the Constitutional and Legal Commission and its position. So, my proposal is that today's House of Representatives, having the obligation to monitor the consistency of the legal system, the criminal justice system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, asks the Council of Ministers to carry out this analysis for the purpose of this text, and then access to the work or supplement, if it is necessary, or if the mechanisms are sufficient, normative mechanisms, and in practice there is no behaviour, then let's see who is not applying it to react to it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14055	Who's answering for a word? You replica. Mr. Živković's replica, then Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14056	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to say that this is a bit of a false allegation. I do not dispute Mr. Džaferović that he makes his proposal. Namely, my proposal said that, in its conclusion today, Parliament is expressing its position that there is a need for this law to be passed. I put it first, immediately to stress my position that there is a need for the law to be passed and to put in charge of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Proposer and the Council of Ministers to adopt a proposal for the law before this parliament within 2 months. That's my suggestion. I do not dispute Mr. Džaferović that he is a little auditing this proposal and leading it as his own, but I ask that this is how my proposal is voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14057	I ask everyone who wants to vote on their proposals to deliver it in writing. Mr. Jovanović, then Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14058	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, so you see me if I were to be sure that a law like this would not be intended, or those people who work in that agency not to work on someone's orders, I would be very happy to vote for it. But from experience so far, I'm afraid it would all be as purposeful as it has been until now, so it will be said that the one there is from the SDS, we're still likely to suspect that 60 of Radovan Karadžić's finances, let's specifically search him. If it didn't turn out that fellow SDS MPs here don't want to pass a law like this, and I'd really like to run a check, if we could have some control, if we were talking about crime, am I the bigger criminal myself or Mr. Gligorić? Here to say if he was the one who talked most about it, or maybe one of my colleagues sitting here. So this means only briefly. I think I'm saying what I'm afraid of means that it's not meant to be and that it's not still done on orders and that I'm even more specific in my community, I'm the only one, or my party is filing the final bill annually. The other parties don't do that, and I'm particularly exposed to control. So I'm afraid it won't be done again. So I can largely accept what Mr. Džaferović was saying about the conclusion that it would be best to do so. Perhaps if I were to give the Council of Ministers the basis of this bill so that they could be included in the ultimate case of international organisations, so that these laws and of these states that they said they had these laws, to take it all away, and to see that what is best is taken from all of this, so that we could pass such a law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14059	Thank you. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14060	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, this country needs both law and agency and action. This parliament corresponds to Bosnia and Herzegovina's man, and Bosnia and Herzegovina's man wants a normal state. And this country as it is today is far from it. We must start from ourselves, from the Presidency, from the Council of Ministers, from Parliament. It is the only real way to go and create a new state and I fully support the proposal of both SDP and Mr. Živković and all others that this law must be passed and that the agency must be made and that it must go into action to clean this country from crime, from the top, from the head of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14061	Anyone else? Replica. Did you Mrs. Perkanović ask for a word? I'm having a discussion. Mr. Križanović, so do you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14062	It's really not my custom to replicate. However, counterpart Džaferović systematically addressed several articles of this law, but indeed very fragmented. I would like to say that I recite only one paragraph of Article 4 and the preceding paragraph of this article says that the Agency is the independent state body of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is directly and solely responsible to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, this is also the answer to your colleague Jovanović, so self-responsible, only to the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as far as I'm concerned, in order not to report again, I'm predicting the outcome of this debate in writing, I have made a proposal for a conclusion, and as far as the deadlines are concerned, I would only add a contribution here to my conclusion in writing that if the commission returns to the commission, it can use its commercial right to open a public debate on this law, to include all relevant, professional, expert, political, etc. international factors, for a single general fine debate on this law to come to a better quality. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14063	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Perkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14064	Thank you, Chairman. I have a proposal that, in general, there have been a lot of repetitions here in the discussions, that we have heard mostly all the explanations, to move on to a vote on the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14065	Thank you very much. I don't have any more records to discuss. So I'm closing the argument. Procedureally, we need to make a statement about the commission's report, and then on the proposals made here by Mr Križanović, Mr Živković and Mr Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14066	did not turn on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14067	Your conclusion, your conclusion, I apologize, Mr. Lagumdžija refers to the way you vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14068	did not turn on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14069	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14070	I'll give it to you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14071	He's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14072	I have concluded, I have asked the House to ask the competent judicial institutions to prepare for the next three months, i.e. in the process of verifying the applicable laws and principles for the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the heads of parliamentary parties to show we are going to meet these discussions to have everything by
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14073	But you didn't deliver that conclusion in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14074	Here's a drink I'll deliver. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14075	That's what I'm saying. Come on, I told you once I don't know if I'm saying you need to deliver all the conclusions in writing and I'm half an hour ago. So we're moving on to a statement on the commission's report. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14076	Here is our agenda point – Proposal for a law on the Agency, etc., and then with the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I think you should vote on the law first, because that's what it says here, or that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14077	Mr. Gligorić, I read the conclusion of the House at the 38th session. Please, I'll read it one more time. So this home adopted a procedure when a certain law is not in principle supported by the relevant commission. So far, there has been no business settlement. Now we define and stick to it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14078	The agenda point still directs us in another direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14079	I really don't understand. Please, I'm going to read the conclusions of my home one more time with the 38th session and I don't want any doubt about the procedure. I beg you, it's my responsibility and that we understand each other. So sub 1. When the College of the House of Representatives receives a report from the committee on the draft law resulting from the fact that the Commission has not accepted the principles of the proposed law or has not accepted the draft law as a whole, in which the Commission is obliged to explain the refusals or the law as a whole, the College will include the draft law with the report of the Commission in the agenda of the House session to be held within 15 days. This is respected. It's on the agenda today. Under 2. If the House adopts a report by the competent commission, that is the second point after this, the proposed law is considered rejected. Because we don't have a business orderly procedure, then we've regulated it with this conclusion and Pod 3. If it does not accept the report from the competent commission, the House will ask the competent commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. So, I think the thing is absolutely clear. We first declare the report of the commission, and we will see from the results of this statement the procedure regarding other conclusions. 63 I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report concerning, Mr Lagudžij, I have told you that the vote will end in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, means in each
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14080	did not turn on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14081	point 67(3) shall mean 1/3 if it is not an amendment or confirmation by the Council of Ministers. We've secured 1/3 signatures, so it will be realised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you, only if I hurt the Rules of Procedure to intervene, because I think I'm at least as aware as you are when it comes to respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14082	As long as we have a list of votes right after. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14083	I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on this law. Vote now. I find that with 17 votes in favour of, 16 against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority were accepted by the relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission. The results of the vote can be obtained in writing. So, I'm also asking you to come up with a proposal for conclusions that mean this situation and we'll make a statement about it. So under point 2 of this legislative proposal we adopted, this legislative proposal, which we have discussed, is considered rejected and now we move to a statement on the new proposals for conclusions, so I will read the first proposal proposed by Mr Križanović, but this is a defacto statement and it loses its meaning. We have a proposal from Mr. Dr. Milorad Živković, who I will read. The House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina expresses the need for the adoption of a bill, is also on the Agency, you have not requalified it and is in charge of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of this House, the Proposers, the Council of Ministers, to propose a bill to this House within two months. Mr. Novaković. Intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14084	Since we have just voted and adopted the Commission's report, so we have not supported the principles of this law, this law cannot be subject to any new agreement now. There may be some other law, and therefore the conclusion of a gentleman cannot be the subject of voting, because that law is not, therefore, 64 principles are not supported. There may be some other law to be proposed either by Mr. Milorad Živković or by anyone else, but this one doesn't. So we can vote on someone else, on the following conclusions, but this conclusion cannot be stated.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14085	Here is before Mr. Džaferović's statement with his proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14086	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that this house, in accordance with what I was talking about, adopt the next conclusion. It is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to co-operate with expert teams from the country and abroad, in so far as it is concerned, courts, prosecutors from abroad, expert teams of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, therefore all of this implies, an analysis of the existing legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina with regard to security issues, forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal parts and the management of confiscated property, so I have prescribed the title of this law, so that, in accordance with the findings of this expertise or propose a law from this area, please, or propose a law from this area, or complete the existing laws. Of course, in case the findings indicate the need for additional normative arrangements in this area. Mr. Gligorić, you're completely clear to me. I understand what you're saying. I'm also very aware of the ability to manipulate all of what I'm saying about this speaker right now. But I'm an MP here, and I want to be responsible, and what I'm doing is an expression of my responsibility, and you go ahead and politicize until the day after tomorrow. Do whatever you want. I won't listen to you at all. Please, nice. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14087	Please don't lead the controversy. You're not the one who's changing me, Mr. Gligorić. Someone else is doing it. Mr. Džaferović, you are on the proposal for a conclusion, Mr. Džaferović. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Križanović, so I recorded.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14089	First, Mr. Raguž, I'd like to ask you two things. First you finish the vote on my proposal for my conclusion. Because my conclusion is very clear and my conclusion tells me that everything you've been saying here that exactly these institutions and these systems and those laws that exist in the next three months for 80 people in this country to be examined according to seeing who, who isn't, who is that. And that conclusion, please, and in three months before this House, we need to come to a report, and after three months after this report, we will put this law back in the parliamentary procedure, we will change it, we will give it back, or we will be happy to have the report that will show that after three months, that's all you said there is, that the Prosecutor's Office, the Court, will be made. So my conclusion is very precise. As for the conclusions that were later proposed. I don't think it's possible to do business, and you check it out, and besides, the least you can do is hypocritically re-propose the conclusions based on which we did this and you refused. Parliament has concluded exactly that it must be done by the Council of Ministers to do so with the Council of Europe, with the European one. We've got it all figured out. And we did that when you refused 17:16. No problem. No problem. We split up, you know who's for, who's against, the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14090	Mr. Lagudmji, may that kind of selection of yours remain yours alone. And let it be verified here in the stenogram and here and other MPs can think responsibly about the matter that's on the agenda and draw conclusions, not just you. Go ahead, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14091	Since we have finished the vote and I think it is both hypocritical and cynicism to move forward with any proposal for conclusions. Mr. Džaferović, for his part, proposes something to win in time, to stay in the game, as they wish to resolve it. Well, you said you didn't want that law, and the story's over. Even Mr. Lagumdžija, it seems to me to be a bit of a trap in the sense that he now allows you to reunite with us who we are and to come into a position as if we were all the same, doing the same job as the people. We're not Mr. Lagumdžija. It'll all stop, and when we get to power, we'll pass that law and the citizens will have a sadsfaction, because that's what I'm proposing. And we end the story. I'd like the opposition to really understand that. We offered, we tried, you clearly refused most of it. We met on an honest and dishonest basis. We'll explain it to the citizens. There's no need to go any further. What we give you our hand to survive
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14092	Come on, Mr. Gligorić, don't be here. I warned you once. I really think it's crossing the line, if nothing Rules of Procedure is right. Replica Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Džaferović. Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14093	The President-in-Office, since all these proposals for conclusions have arisen as proposals to get out of the situation we were in, and since the bill has failed, that it is considered rejected, I ask you not to put any more suggestions on the vote, but to go to the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14094	Mr. Džaferović. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14095	Mr. Gligorić is a replica to you. So, I didn't say what you said about what I said, but I said what I said and what went into the stenogram. And once you learn forever, this is the second time I'm asking you to teach this thing. Learn to respect that elemental rule. After all, and if I'm wrong, let people say what they think, and then you stand up to the arguments, and don't say what other people think, especially what other people say when they say publicly about this pay phone. I am in favour of this country getting appropriate mechanisms to combat this phenomenon, illicit phenomena, and I have made it clear, but I am in order for these mechanisms to be consistent with the mechanisms that have democratic countries in Europe and in the world. I'm not for Parliament to complicate things here and bring chaos. It's the meaning of my discussion and the meaning of my conclusion and I ask you to understand it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14096	Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14097	..it's a business intervention. Secondly, I draw my conclusion, I withdraw my proposal, because he is completely immaterial. I believe that the public will be familiar, my conclusion that in three months, the D.A. and the Justice Department will start a car, there's no need. They heard and let them do. Let them do it. We don't need a conclusion. What do we need? Let them do it. That was your call, here's mine, I'm calling them. I, like Zlatko Lagumdžija, invite them to do it. They have mechanisms. In three months, in three months. I personally as an individual and people who think like me will wait to see if they've done anything. We will re-emerge with the bill of this law and thus let you know that your argument is incorrect, or we will congratulate you in three months. We congratulate you when in three months, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina for these 80 people who represent the top of this country, when they say we've scanned them all, they're all the same, or they're not the same. I just wanted to show that we're not all the same. And I'm sorry that you Ljilja, Mrs. Leho, are getting along, that we're all the same, that some of the people we haven't had. We wanted to make it very clear that we weren't all the same to send the message to people, that we were all the same before the law. Yeah, as an example positive, like. Now we're on the opposite side. I thought we were on the same side, now we see that we're on the opposite side and I don't think that's right and that's the point of our choice. Well, no problem. On this matter, we should have made a division in this country right, not to the national parties and the opposition. Possibly. __________(?) /didn't turn on/ I was lost in your eyes a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14099	Are you finished, Mr. Lagumdžija? Please. Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Sopta. Did you ask for it? 67
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14100	sobzir the distinguished colleagues here have been qualified to be fair and unfair, well-intentioned and malicious, here I hope that in the next three months the prosecution will examine my property and property of Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Gligorić and will divide us according to this criterion by which they have now spoken.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14102	While he was discussing it, I'd just say that I'm not a lawyer, and for God's sake, I didn't have to deal with the courts, but it seems to me if we already have one institution, that it's better to put all the strength to that institution to do its job, but to form another institution, so they're going to move, hot potatoes there, here, who's, who's not to blame. That's why I voted in this direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14103	Please, I am obliged to put forward Mr. Džaferović's proposal, because he is the product of the debate to vote. Do you want to go before Mr. Križanović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14104	But the debate is closed. How can you new ones who aren't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14105	Well, it's not new, it's out, during the debate, it was his suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14106	That's after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14107	No, it's not, Zlatko, because he filed it twice before in the debate. Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14108	I can understand Mr. Džaferović's good intentions when he suggests that one conclusion be given to the Council of Ministers to run an analysis, possibly continuing this work here today turns out here. But here's how we heard the Council of Ministers really had a lot of time to do that. It had the conclusion of our plenary session. And as the Council of Ministers otherwise refers to the conclusions of this House, we will see the next disturbance when we analyse this report. So I think it would be good if we ended this item on the agenda with what we've voted on so far. Thank you. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14109	Please, Mr. Šefik Džaferović's proposal is a product of debate and all the proposals that are the product of the debate, and can contribute to the completion of this point, I said will be put on the agenda. I don't see anything that needs to be polymerized. Mr. Potočnik, then Mr. Živković, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14110	Mr. Chairman, this is a new item of the agenda that Mr. Šefik has suggested, and that's what the people have said about pouring ash on the head. You refuse one law, one action, one agency, and then you say we do some analysis. I mean, it's really playing with a man in Bosnia and Herzegovina who's so sick of this kind of nonsense, and I don't think it's even in the spirit of this Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14111	Mr. Potočnik, I'm just going to say that we've always been through the debate and we've put forward proposals for the verdict and it's not the first time, and so we should do it this time. I'm not just gonna talk about the other one. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14112	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it would be no doubt about how my conclusion ended, nor if it had been removed because Mr. Novaković said it made no sense, I mean
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14113	It hasn't been taken off, we haven't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14114	It was a suggestion. My intention is to signify this parliament's position that this law is necessary. I also went with a compromise solution to propose a Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Council of Ministers in the next two months to make the proposal a conclusion. However, as far as I can see the motionor has no interest, or no desire to co-operate to continue working on the law, their Council of Ministers is questionable, I draw my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14115	Thank you, Dr. President. Zivkovic. Mr. Kunić, then Mrs. Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14116	It seems to me that Parliament is slowly entering into a crisis as far as decision-making is concerned. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14117	Bringings?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14118	It's a decision! I would remind you again at the last session when we had the Customs Tariff Act that we had discussed, that twice, we did not accept that law, for the third time under pressure, so the law was passed. I can't forget that. It is the same matter that has not been voted once, it should not have passed Parliament. And this Parliament shames itself, that is, to bring down its own dignity. I'm also afraid that the present situation also
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14119	Mr. Kunić, we haven't said the same thing three times. It's facts, let's talk facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14120	A variety of transparent games went into procedure for the third time. Please, it's the same thing now. What Mr. Džaferović suggests, it is indeed a really new agenda point and it has the possibility at the next session. What Živković suggested is also a new item of the agenda. So you've absorbed things. The law has been denied. There's been a report accepted. There's nothing to discuss. Let's not turn Parliament into a circus. Please conclude this agenda item. She's done. Let's move on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14121	Who else wanted the word? Mrs. Leho, then Mr. Izet Hadžić. Here you go, Mrs. Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14122	It's about voting on this dot. I'll Podsjetić you of this document to which Mr. Lagumdžija is constantly called. Justice starts like this. The rule of law requires judges and prosecutors who are bold and independent. The rule of law requires professional police, competent civil servants. The rule of law requires qualified legal professionals who apply the highest standards of professional conduct and moral values. And it ends this one. It is necessary to establish a judiciary that is truly independent and which ensures a swift and effective exercise of justice. Ethics and high standards should be established and conflicted, corruption eradicated and organised crime opposed, with an inexorable possibility. So all they mention here are prosecutors and judges and police and civil servants. I am for this order that is defined here in this document called Business and Justice. 70 As far as morale is concerned, fair and dishonest, I must say, if anything is done by my father, that what he taught me and what he taught me is far more important to me than what it says in these laws, because there are things that every family carries with it and that don't die with one generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leho. Mr. Hadžić. Here you go. Please, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14124	I volunteered exclusively for the purpose of knowing that I voted in favour of the Commission's report, which I thought was an expert in assessing the quality of the proposed law. And it means that the law is not written in quality and I suggest that those experts who have worked on it either do it or say they are considered inadequate for this area. So it's not just the law that's been denied what to say has the grade needed or not needed, it's what's been misspelled. It was evaluated by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. As an MP, when I read that law, I supported such an attitude because I find it insufficiently justified. And don't, please, just a minute, please don't change the thesis here. I want to sit down with my colleagues, respect that there's an existence between us, and it's not like I sometimes think of sitting with extremely rude people, demagogues, manipulators, etc. I mean, some people need to take this trait for themselves, because here they really insult political freedom, the presence of certain parties, etc. Under number 2 if we want to improve the situation in this area, let us support the proposal by Šefik Džaferović. He's not political. He's serious and responsible, and of course we'll see a report based on what they say we have in three months. And number 3 always as an MP of the SDA, I call upon all the competent authorities to exercise control of my property and possibly my manipulation, wealth, etc. I'm happy to answer my honesty, and I'm always at my disposal to check it out, and I think I've properly filled in a minimum of five times my property records of what I own and what I have. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14125	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić and the debate is over. Please, it is, but here it is, Mr. Moranjkić to let you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14126	So I came forward about this statement by my colleague, Agent Lagumdžija, that someone had voted 17-16. No, the result of the vote is 17:16. It's the same thing as me saying a group of MPs didn't uphold the law at 16:17. That's not what we need to talk about. Stav, the point of democracy is to have a voice over or one of the MPs says it was me and someone else who knows what it would be like on the commission. We can assume it wasn't Ćeman and someone else, who knows what it would be like on the committee. There's nothing of it for my people. But I'm surprised that when this House of Representatives adopted something that later said and the Constitutional Court that it touched whether it was in the national interests of a nation, when the result above was 5 for, I say for the amendments, everything else against, that no one was then. Well, you're too loud. You're too loud, you're too loud and so 39 times. Niko got up here and said that. And now suddenly someone is calling on the D.A. and the Court to do 71 of their jobs. Well, I invite them, too, but should every single person here stand up and call someone to do their job. Or someone to say MP Zorić, MP Andrić or Lagumdžija or Hadžić should do their job. I don't see the point of this debate in this house that we're calling on the D.A. and the Court to do their job. I thought the court and the prosecution were independent. Not that anyone can, even from these benches, invite them to do their job. That's how I realized it. I don't know what the point of a debate like this is. This is the first time I've called. The debate has been going on for 3-4 hours, rather than politics. And that doesn't lead anywhere. If one such law is to be passed, I will trust again my colleagues from my party Mr Jović and Raguž who are members of the Constitutional Commission. Well, who else am I gonna trust if I don't? I don't ask them the same thing when it comes to the defense security commission, actually the commission for the Joint Defence and Security Commission, because I'm in front of this party from this house, then I tell them what was on that committee. Well, I guess that makes sense to the commission. I guess that's the point of the commission to do that and then to me as a member of the club, so the club means some community, belonging to something. We invite everyone else who thinks as smart as we do to get into our club, they don't have to be party members. And it would offend me if someone put me on their side as Mrs. Milićević, Fatima or Ruža.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14127	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Please, since the concurrers of the conclusions are all but Mr Džaferović, further withdrawing their proposals, Mr Džaferović remains at his conclusion -- it is up to the Council of Ministers to in cooperation with expert teams from the country and abroad of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament to carry out an analysis of the existing legal system of BiH with regard to security issues, forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal parts and the management of confiscated property, so that, in accordance with the findings or propose a law in this area or complete the existing laws. Of course, in case the analysis indicates the need for additional normative arrangements in this area. I am putting this proposal to Mr Džaferović's conclusion at home. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote now. Look, Mr. Lagumdžija, it's really not fair. This is what I have to tell you. You want a record of how many times you've received a replica, did I now ask if there was more to discuss and that Mr. Zoric and Mr. Zorić had been exhausted by the rounds reported. I find that with 18 votes, 7 votes against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority were accepted by the proposal of Mr. Šefik Džaferović's conclusion. Why didn't you vote? Did he deny you the right to vote? Did you sign up? That's not my problem, Mr. Bešlagić. I really can't answer right now. You should've intervened before about the technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14128	You can do it again. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14129	I'm not going to repeat my vote. We have clear voting results here, and I've done my job on the plea. If anyone wants another word, they'll get it. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14130	Mr. Chairman, you are required to conduct the session precisely to say what is voted on, read the Rules of Procedure, to say vote now, but to do so quickly, people have not at all, they have been. If you have a majority, repeat the vote. I ask that the vote be repeated.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14131	Do you question the vote? That's all I care about. I'll do it again. Every time I give a nice warning to the MPs when they're going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14132	Something you did in a hurry
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14133	Oh, no, you don't. It doesn't make any sense. Oh, come on, I mean. I'll stay. We'll talk in the hallway, 'cause this isn't worth talking about here. I read before that the conclusion of Mr. Džaferović precisely and asked you to vote and you claim that I did not say what was voted on. Well, come on. So if you can take that kind of discussion and approach here in front of people, go on. I don't mind. Here. We'll vote 100 times. Come on, come on, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14134	...press against, unfortunately, that's why I say to me that something not in you, but in confusion and technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14135	Press, maybe you didn't press the card. I can't answer for that part.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14136	Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please repeat your vote. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14137	Intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14138	Mr. Raguž, it's obvious now, there are some people living here who have resisted, and that has not been seen. So it's not a dispute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I'm asking, I'm voting doubt and I'm voting on that first vote right now. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14139	You had your chance, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14140	And just that, because I still, just a little bit Mr. Raguž, I'm, look out, I already, this is the second time I've asked you, twice I've asked you to deliver the list. That electronics, I guess we understand each other. I could get a list of a simple vote by now, and I haven't got one yet. It looks like I'm not going to get it, so it makes perfect sense that when we don't get a list of so many times, what else are we going to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14141	You'll get a list at the end of the agenda at the break. It's a done deal, man. Come on, don't make a circus out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14142	So you're making him, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14143	I don't make it at all. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14144	May I finish, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14146	And business, so business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14147	Everything you asked for today, I respected it here. Everything, but absolutely everything. Don't complain anymore. I can't stand it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14148	No, you're commenting before I say anything. So my question is: will these applications for replicas and discussions that we found existed, will they be made possible after the vote, or will we end it first so that we can vote? There.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14149	Since Mr Gligorić expressed his doubts about the net final vote on the proposal of the gentleman, Mr Džaferović's conclusion, I am putting this proposal by Mr Džaferović on the House's re-enactment. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. 20 votes for, 13 against, 4 abstentions, 12 Federations, 8 Republika Srpska. Roger that. 74 Here you go, Mrs. Milićević. If there's another word or replica he wants us to end up not being denied.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14150	Just for a little while. You see, first I want to ask you to get a list of this vote, if we don't vote again to have this list and secondly to say that it's my personal pleasure, after all that's been said by this point that this is over and that we expect within the shortest time of the Council of Ministers' opinion, to see new proposals if so what is not fixed existing legal solutions. [[or covered-incomprehensible]] I was very disappointed by the fact that a couple of colleagues who had very good proposals were very good at pulling them back and this is now looking for a listing for a simple reason to realize that it seemed like it wasn't the point that we got the law that, but it was supposed to be that we rejected it. And I think we're now on the verge of getting a legal solution that will fill out any gaps in the existing law. Please mean we get this list and the previous list, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14151	You want a replica. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14152	...how it was adopted and that we withdrew the conclusions that we had drawn without our conclusions being adopted. I just want to say, because of what Mr. Zorić told us, so our law has failed, the law on the formation of an agency to take away the property has failed. With this conclusion, probably considering now and what my colleague and Ljilja said, three months ago, and now it's known that we're trying to reverse the moves, rather than surprise again. If in three months this conclusion that we have now reached results in having a law ahead of us and resulting in the fact that in three months we see whether the State Court and the Prosecutor's Office have checked 80 leading people of this country. Then we shall congratulate you on this day. But I urge you not to let it happen, that in three months when we give you the law again in the procedure, then you can think again about how you're going to... That's correct. I am obliged to tell you that nothing or replica is in a certain way she uses the benefits of the right replica, but we would love for three months for you to be right and then our attempt to pass the law would be right, because our goal is to make this right. But I'm inviting you in three months to join us if there's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14153	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. It was a replica, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14154	I want to believe that Mrs. Milićević did what she said she believed. But the wrong allegation is seen in the next, in her belief that the Council of Ministers will do part of the job. Just so you know, we've asked the Council of Ministers twice under this bill to plead. They didn't even want to make a statement, they didn't want to send anyone. To send someone else's address to someone who ignores the Constitutional and Legal Commission and this House will end up with a farce on what, I think Professor Lagumdžija is also suggesting. 75 I want to say that I believe that Lyla Ljilja that this will happen, but nothing will happen, because the Council of Ministers refused to make a statement about it. Under the Constitution, Bosnia and Herzegovina is responsible for all areas of social life and for the most important thing they continue to feel and you are now asking a chutologist and ask again those people who ignored this law to make some new ones. It's not gonna happen. How many times in this House have I predicted and said and won't and won't, so it's just a farce and an ash spill that Mr. Džaferović managed to pull through, stay to have something, and basically it's a big con in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14155	Mr. Zorić and no more reports. There's no technique. Try it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14156	Like this. Mr. Lagumdžija mentioned my last name and said if this, then this. I've never been, and I've been a representative since '96. , twice in the federal parliament, and twice in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have never traded, so I ask Mr Lagumdžija not to invite me to trade now, especially not to invite me. The rest of you can think hard if this isn't what we're gonna do. Every time I press here for, abstention or against, I always think about it. So if a colleague of Lagumdžija or someone else does it with automation, I feel sorry for him. But I don't need to be asked to think about how I'm going to vote. I also haven't received a list yet, so my reply to the replica was in that sense that no one should ask me to consider it before the vote, because I keep doing it, and I also don't have to trade with me. If the Council of Ministers, I am not dependent on either the Council of Ministers or any MP here, or the legislator. The laws that are in the procedure I read them, if I arrive, some of them I am not able to read, I admit it, and so far I have confessed in Parliament, so by my conscience and in agreement with my colleagues from the Club, I will take opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14157	Is there anyone else? Come on, please, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14158	I mean, talking about how naive I am, so I expect the Council of Ministers to do something. I think in principle, Mr. Gligorić, that it starts with what as a decent person I expect these people to do their job and I'll be ready to call them if they don't. And I didn't sit on the Council of Ministers and I really don't know what it looks like. You may know how decisions are made there, so from personal experience, you assume their reaction. You have an assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14159	We've exhausted the 18th point. We're going to 19th, that's Ad.19. A report from the Office for Auditing the Business of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Please note, if you remember this proposal, that this point should be formulated this way, we came with a vote and it was painted. 76 No, not to be specifically considered. E is not this point, sir, but the financial business of the Presidency in accordance with the Constitution, not the Office of Audit and this report submitted by the Presidency. You were there and I'm surprised you haven't mastered this technology yet and the role of the presidency. So, please. The report is required by the Bureau to submit once a year under the Constitution of this House, without the Office of Audit. Well, it's not on the way, it's a constitutional category. So, according to Mr. Živković's proposal, the vote at this house was adopted by 19 votes for 17 against putting this as a special point, although the next business is institutions, other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This report you got earlier. Today you have received a report from the Commission, which is the Commission for Finance and Budget. It is a preliminary report since the Commission will continue to work on the methodology established. In the report, the Commission proposed recommendations to Dom for adoption. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Kragulj, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14160	Yes, here's since I've been assigned to the Commission as rapporteur for these two agenda points, I'm going to say something about both, while stressing the review report for the Presidency. In fact, according to the review office's report, we held three sessions, we discussed it three times. You also have a report ahead of you. There's nothing special about them. Facts are facts. They are very professionally transparent and very detailed and these reports show all the facts that are important for assessing certain actions in the field of material financial operations in the institutions of all these seven institutions, especially in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. What I must point out is that, throughout the process of working on this committee, we have had maximum co-operation with the Audit Office, or representatives of the Audit Office, in order to come up with some recommendations for the House of Representatives. However, she was left behind when it came to the Presidency, she was left behind, or ignored, by the Presidency ignoring the Commission, if she had not sent anyone to explain certain issues raised in the review report, except that there were people present, or representatives from Mr Tihić's cabinets and other cabinets. We didn't have anyone who could give specific explanations, explanations. This is what people are present today only from Mr. Tihić's cabinet, which says the presidency ignores the commission's work, that it considers this optional. It feels like the Presidency, that this presidency doesn't worry at all, first of all, knowing that no one can do anything to them, that this Parliament can't change anyone here, any of the Presidency. I mean, what's important is that all the data indicates that the presidency came out of the planned budget framework without a real foundation. There is a feeling that often people competed who would spend more, who would create a certain irregular, or extreme situation without certain criteria and without transparency while spending. This is a pretty bad impression that this report provides and speaks of a common relationship, not just the Presidency, but a relationship in our society towards citizens, by means and by public means. It tells me that we're falling certain values, it's about a moral aspect, etc. Which you'll all probably have a chance to contact. 77 I mean, it is important here to point out that many times through the media a single climate has been created etc. what will be done, who is responsible etc. If I were to talk about the fact that members of the Bureau do not have any responsibility that was incorrect and unrealistic, they have a moral responsibility, although surely these actions that have been happening that have missed various mistakes etc. Certainly not the real members of the Bureau, but the members of the Bureau did not ensure that professional work was done particularly in the Bureau, did not provide people in the area of financial affairs with the ability to ensure proper cost-making in accordance with certain criteria, procedures and ways and did not prescribe it. This is otherwise a flaw in our system that does not have clear procedures, does not have a transparent way of dealing with criteria and ways of, how costs arise and how costs are controlled, as is also present and the question of non-procurements that are not carried out in accordance with the regulations or decisions of the Council of Ministers. The recommendations made here, I wouldn't repeat them, I think they're trying for the Presidency to just get a break from one, one practice as quickly as possible so as to say that work is professionally done and that within 90 days missed, procedure in detected failures, procedures in the observed failures of the Commission and this House of Representatives. I mean, here I'm saying we can't ask for the responsibility of the Audit Office, and the commission doesn't have any legal or professional jurisdiction to determine the degree of crime. That's why there are investigative organs. We can only talk here about the system and the reasons for the failures and work to remove these reasons. Here, if we can talk, we can only talk about moral responsibility. What I would like to say from these other six reports that we have discussed, I would say only that they are mostly, I would also say that the Bureau, the Bureau's audit reports have a negative assessment and of these six institutions the other Statistics Agency has also received a negative assessment, and the others have received a positive assessment with the reserve, while all of these institutions have expressed staff, organisational and procedural assumptions for orderly management and transparent spending and economic spending of public funds, especially here when it comes to the Council, this Statistics Agency, there is no practical management. That is why he is responsible, the question is who is also responsible for other institutions that are in transformation such as the Institute of Standards and Measurement, such as the Election Commission, which is not staffed. I think that's for sure why he's carrying under the number one responsibility of the Council of Ministers whose jurisdiction he's in. The practice continues to be that we laws, we form institutions, but then other problems arise because of the inability of staff agreements, etc. and untimely staffing. We don't have any responsible people and in these institutions that we can run jobs at all and avoid all unnecessary irregularities and make failures etc. I mean, what's important, which is that all institutions must first of all set themselves up to do finance and public spending in a professional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14161	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Moranjkić, you did, so Mr. Živković. It's the order of the reported. Here you go, Mr. Lagudmžij.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14162	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What is, since I am a member of the committee to which Mr. Kragulj is chairman, the commission could come to that conclusion which is the common denominator of all. And it is certain that there is much more in the commission's report that certain members of the commission thought that 78 here had to be presented which could not have been entered into the Commission's report because it was coming out of its mandate, or perhaps it had not reached agreement on it. So with the full support of everything the commission has given as an attitude, I would like to make a few more notes on this agenda point. Firstly, I think it is evident that the Presidency has taken a step back from previous years both from the point of view of rationalising costs and from the point of view of the organisation within the Presidency itself which may have led to some irrationality as such. What was also evident in the commission's work, and I think we could see it in public that the Bureau's audit report in public was seen as a kind of shock. That is precisely why this Parliament today in the situation when it is talking about this audit report should, I think that full support and the institution of the auditors and strengthening the institutions of the audit in this country and that possibly some of the failures that have been made on either side that they should be primarily in the role of science to strengthen this institution's audit further. And that's why I think we should support the institution of the auditor as such and see which is all the further, and our commission has a special obligation to have an active relationship when it comes to the function of the audit and I think we should support the auditor, the state auditor for what he's done so far. I think the presidency's behavior is, when I say the presidency, I don't want to make any difference between this or that. In principle, I think that, that the Presidency's reactions, I am not only talking about the public, but what we as a commission had the opportunity to see, namely, we as a commission were practically not in a position to have the Presidency's testimony as an institution in front of the commission, except for some of the representatives of the individual members of the Presidency who are fortunate to have stayed among us. Because it was really just like what we could see in the media, which was pretty much my fault, but it was the two of them. Or possibly, I'm less than the two, or I'm 500 candy, that 700 candy, and all together, it made an impression pretty lame. I don't think it's a good thing that no one from the Presidency today, I'm talking about the members of the Bureau, has found it inappropriate, if nothing to show in writing to Parliament this, as the Presidency, not to say that it would be good to have them here, respecting the people representing the Presidency here, if there are any. And I think it's really bad. What can we do now? First we can do nothing which is quite common practice. Secondly, maybe while we're having a discussion right now, maybe offered this to our agenda, maybe they're doing something that would really be honorable, maybe they've called a press conference somewhere and resigned. Which is also theoretically possible. But probably someone would inform us so that perhaps this theoretical possibility has practically remained theoretical. The third option is changing the presidency. There is a Constitution defined, electoral law by members of Election Law 8.7 and 8.8 as it is done and it is called when members of the Bureau are unable to do so, and then it goes before the Constitutional Court and there is a procedure before the Constitutional Court. In some countries of the world, this is called impeachment or the practical initiation of the procedure recalls the Presidency before the appropriate court, because they are not in a position to perform their duties according to the country's standards. It is known that President Nikson is of his own time when, when told before the Constitutional Court, he will be troubled whether he is able to represent that function rationally, then man resigned. He wasn't crazy. I mean, it's just that he thought that function was destroying the credibility of that function. So the process of the shift that is being launched can be launched probably in Parliament before the Constitutional Court can be reached. And there's a fourth possibility that the High Representative doesn't play Mother Terezija to not explain to us that he thinks the presidency should resign, at least he knows how people change. So now he's giving us back the ball, like he doesn't have anything to do with it. There he would have it, he would have called them to resign. He thinks they should resign. I mean, the least I can say is wrong, and I'm really standing in the defense of the Presidency in front of the High Representative until we do it, so 79 when we don't do it, then a man is right, and until then it's wrong to change alongside the living. In other words, it's possible that we're doing something like that. So what else can we do anyway, and that's to initiate some new regulations and that's what the chairman of the committee has been talking about and we can run some, I'm not going to paraphrasing the Šefik for those conclusions of the type that the D.A. and other institutions, the Council of Ministers are doing their job, I'm not going to say that. The fact is also, we need to see where our responsibility is in this chair. Our responsibility is, we may have spoiled them in a certain way, so it's our fault. We still approved the budget by which they, by no means caused, spent 20% more money legally, our rebalance compared to what was in their 2003 budget. So they didn't take any new functions. It's not now that they've taken over some new function by some of our laws, so that explains why they've increased their costs by 20%. That's what we called it. I'm not asking as a parliament at all, I think it's irrelevant who voted. So me and I are as responsible as the one who voted for it even though we weren't in, which is what that rebalancing was. So there's our responsibility, Mr. Chairman, to allow it. Now, based on this, I'm proposing six conclusions, Mr. Chairman. Great, and I'll give it to you in writing so there won't be a misunderstanding. I ask that we make a statement about them in the Rules of Procedure, not necessarily what they say with 1/3, etc. We're serious people. First conclusion. The House of Representatives calls on members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to replace the responsible persons in accordance with the audit report until the competent judicial authorities have completed the appropriate processing of the culprits for such a situation. So we're not inviting that D.A. to give us those new ones in three months, to do his job, but here, this conclusion will read the journalist, so I guess they'll do their job. But when they see people being sanctioned in the presidency. 2. The House of Representatives requires the establishment of a service of the relevant Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to perform unique functions in accordance with the principle of legality, efficiency and rational business. This doesn't make any sense anymore. It costs a lot, and there's no results. 3. It is up to the Commission for Finance and Budget to prepare a budget rebalance for two months which reduces the presidency's budget from this year in the amount of inappropriate costs in 2003. So to prepare the budget rebalancing that would go, it would really be spectacular that budget rebalancing, for the first time since Dejton to date, we would be reducing some money over the year, and you've spent a lot of it last year, and here we are giving you, so this is to see very nicely from the audit report about how much. 4. The House of Representatives asks the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to immediately approach the rationalisation of costs and administrative apparatus in line with previous conclusions. So they're not waiting for our rebalancing, they're not telling us in September there's no more money, so here's the deal. 5. Members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency are urged to resign to their posts because of an inadequate reaction to the audit report as an example of responsibility to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 80 and 6th, since I have said that the High Representative is amnesty until we react, then normal Parliament, I think he can reach the sixth conclusion – the High Representative is called upon to sanction those who do not comply with Parliament's conclusions in accordance with their powers. Parliament's conclusion. So that he, in accordance with our conclusions, assumes the proper powers in the order of all three nations. There. So that man is not doing something out of his will, Novaković, but that we agree as fine as the people of power and opposition as an example to other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina as to what we do. After Mr. Novaković began to wonder, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14163	... Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll do the same very briefly. A review report by seven institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina shows that someone less, but almost everyone has violated the laws and regulations in financial business since 2002 so far. And since the points are particularly discussed in the report, I will look back on the fact that since 2002, the Presidency has almost violated the laws and regulations of financial business almost the most, not even taking much into account the opinions and instructions of the commission or the gentlemen of the auditors who in the previous case pointed to their failures and illegal actions. Therefore, the laws and regulations for them have not been valid and do not apply to what is shown by a complete disregard for this Parliament and otherwise their complete relationship is thus shown. And the second apparently misused budget funds and in many items not intended, were illegally spent, rather, they were scattered. There is a drastic difference, what has come into my eyes and in the number of employees of individual members of the Presidency, and there is very little for one and the other and third transparency when it comes to the spending of funds on supplies, whether basic, any other means indicated by the gentleman. So I've prepared the same three conclusions and I suggest that under 1. All wrongly spent and spent funds from the 2003 budget to return within three months to the budget from which they were illegally taken. Normally with rebalancing, because that's how you can do it. That, when it comes to rebalancing, it is better to say, you are right, Sejo, in the rebalas, to be carried out, and to be taken from them. 2. Secondly, after three months Parliament and the public should be informed of the realization of this conclusion and 3. That all the measures provided for in law should be initiated within 30 days against those responsible for the unlawful spending of the budget, so that they can be notified to this Parliament and to the BH public within the same 30 days. And especially what I want to point out here and to point out to Parliament is that in the media it has been published, and the informal stories are that the auditors who have done their work have been threatened fairly, that they have even been disabled in certain tasks of doing this task, that it has been carried out, that pressures have been made on them, etc. etc. I ask, if that is true, and there are people, they will probably confirm or deny that this parliament condemns these phenomena, because if such high institutions are experiencing what has entered the public, then it is 81 hiducia in this country. And that's why as an MP, I support those people who did this job and congratulate them on their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14165	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14166	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions in this House, we have warned of the Presidency's behaviour and have made one conclusion that the documents coming from the Presidency were good for someone from the Presidency to be there when we discuss these documents. I am sorry for the position in this House which does not commit the Presidency to act in accordance with and the conclusions of this Parliament. On the other hand, the presidency seems in itself to be playing the procurement and repair agency of vehicles and travel arrangements. According to the audit report we have here, he gave the most negative opinion on this. The audit office expressed a negative opinion on the presidency's financial report, and among other things at 8 points, 6 of them are related to the purchase of vehicles, oil and travel arrangements. On page 23, we also have gifts that ranged from 2.5 thousand marks to up to 15 thousand marks. At first, at the beginning of this session, I wanted to go with a new agenda item that would be changed and complemented by the Law of Conflict of Interest, which is a member of the 10th, where it says: receiving gifts to add and giving gifts, so that if we limit the receiving of gifts to 100 marks, we would indeed give the possibility of giving gifts 100 marks from the budget, so that our uniforms and costumes and some smaller items, the handicrafts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not expensive diamond necklaces, etc. gold-plated feather oil. sobzir Mr Lagumdžija has given six, my colleague Moranjkić has three conclusions, I think it would be too much to conclude, I will stop at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14167	Thank you very much, Mr. Živković. Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, reviewing this report, analysing certain items, etc. should not be very smart, objectively to come up with knowledge and slightly said members of the Bureau have misused their functions, and in this context they have sinned simply on the law and that there have been moral and political responsibilities, and even professional responsibilities so far, they would probably have some reactions from the members of the Bureau. I must express all the words of praise and recognition of the Financial Business Audit Office, that they had the courage and the strength to submit such a report, to protect this Parliament from any sanctions, this independent audit body, and in this sense, indeed, to maintain this independence institute, the dignity of the BiH Audit Office. They are responsible for one Parliament, and in this context we really must stand in the protection of these people. The system of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is now in motion. So, I would suggest just one suggestion of conclusion. Parliament calls on the BiH Prosecutor's Office to urgently review the report on the 82th Financial Business Audit of the BiH presidency and other BH institutions normally, and in this regard act according to positive legal rules, point. So, I would like to call on the Prosecutor's Office of the System, and until then, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that we not adopt this report until the prosecution's testimony and that we give the Presidency the opportunity to question themselves and that they may simply refer to their system of responsibility, to the business of their cabinets in which they commanding officers, etc. They can't distance themselves from the cabinets they formed. And I'm asking you not to be here, so we don't lose one sophisticated dimension of watching every member of the presidency individually. There's no collective responsibility here, there's collective responsibility in getting a car, of course not, these offers that came in but objectively every individual responsibility is important. So there is no conditionally stated collective responsibility in relation to simply those decisions made collectively. And so, a member of the presidency is sovereignly ruling his cabinet and is tasked with operating his cabinet along with the BiH presidency's secretary-generals. Which means, once again, I expect the Prosecutor's Office to react urgently in view of this report and simply point out that the abuse of duty and the simple positions they have taken, taken up by members of the BiH presidency, and these other proposals can normally be seen and voted on once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14169	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14170	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, listening to some of these proposals, believe me, I don't know if this is about the BiH presidency, I'd think it's about the presidency of the Bosniak Union, the Union of Birdsmen or some other alliances. Namely, the proposals go to that point to get the funds back, so if the gifts came back, I'd add if they were spent on the team to return, because I don't know what else to look for when we're looking for all this, then what's for the team. It's not fair to keep it that way. So I read the Commission's proposal, and I found that even the commission ordered the presidency, so it said the presidency had to report to the commission. Or maybe the commission should have invited the presidency to report to her and this House on what she's looking for. So I heard that special commendations were due to auditors because they were doing their job. I expect us to get special commendation because we're doing our job. If, indeed, everyone who works in this country should be especially commended, if it isn't the auditory group or auditors, they probably didn't have a big problem with this if we should commend them for having the courage to write what they found. If people found what they found, I guess it's normal for them to write it. I expect it's normal for them to write that. I've heard here today, and an invitation for the High Representative to do whatever we don't do or someone else doesn't do, do it. I don't think the High Representative should be called on, he's doing it very effectively and without a call. At least not this Parliament here. Or what they do today is actually do it before this, and they've done it before, but a little behind the scenes. I am therefore speaking on my own behalf, ready to support the Commission's proposals, with one correction of the second proposal, which is that the Commission calls on the Presidency to give the Commission a House of Representatives, to report to the Commission and the House of Representatives on the activities they have taken to remove the observed failures in the report. Whether the report will be certified by the Bureau members or by the Bureau's authority is less important gentlemen on the committee. Only if you don't have any other purpose. Unless, of course, you have some other purpose. I'm also prepared and part of Mr. 83 Lagumdžija's conclusions to support and I'd like to ask that we get those conclusions really multiplied rather than read them upstairs, if at all possible before the vote, given
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14171	That'll make my job easier, too, I accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14172	So, this one I am prepared and some of these conclusions to support, especially the one about the High Representative, of course, the call to the High Representative. So I'm prepared to support some of these conclusions, and I think that really one number of these conclusions deserves one serious support. Of course, according to each of these, and the other conclusions that are proposed to be stated here, individually, so not about the group of conclusions, but I ask that, if possible, we declare ourselves individually. I will not support the suggestion that here because it is normal to do this, that the competent authorities are taking action, so there is no reason to particularly declare ourselves here because it is perfectly normal that people will do it or that they should do it. And finally, I would really like to, I would consider it normal for this House to respect the Presidency as an institution, not speak individually about the members of the Presidency, not talking about people who have abused and their trust and this, to take advantage of some positions there, I'm talking about the institution of the Presidency that we, at least we here as a Dom should respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14173	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the members of the Bureau, when we talk about the revision, then I really want to say something with all due attention to people and the visas of this story Mr. Novaković spoke about again, that there is a need to safeguard the integrity of the institution. Mr. Beriz Belkić, Mr. Jozo Križanović and Mr. Živko Radišić, have performed the honor of this duty and have left a Bogami deal of money in the accounts and these today, as our people would say, have taken up three years in advance. Hence, there should always be some sort of comparison of people who know how to commit and give credit to those who abuse. And not all of it hides behind the integrity of the institution, and then they're untouchable because they're working there, so they can steal. Since I agree with those who have had a critical eye on abuse of position and accidental spending of funds, I also propose three conclusions. Some are repeating themselves, but it is precisely why it is good to see the will of MPs who have thought independently and come to the same and in some ways to repeat it three times in Parliament and, of course, in the vote, so I will remain in my conclusions without making any difference as they repeat themselves with some. The first, in connection with the report of the Office for Audit, on the revision of BiH institutions, which found illegal, in the spending of dedicated financial resources, is the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, asking members of the presidency of Mr Sulejman Tihić, Mr Dragan Čović and Mr Borislav Paravac, to call their names, to resign as an honorary and moral act towards BiH institutions and citizens. The second conclusion, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives gives full support to the management and staff of the Office for Auditing to continue to carry out professional surveillance tasks in BiH institutions, and will create a representative home, optimal conditions for their work. 84 and a third conclusion, it might be a little funny to you, but I want it to be said. The House of Representatives requests that the institutions of the BiH system buy cars of domestic production when purchasing official cars, and I mean Skoda and Pasat. If you don't pay customs here, it's your home in the Federation right now. So I think why give huge money to Audi 6, when it's enough and the damage to octavia, with the air conditioning here, we'll add that. Who are those people who need to jump out of the hoods in Audi 8. No matter what damage the train is in, and I think the recommendation should be sent to the system institutions, and on that basis you will see how much we will save in this country, and on fuel, of course. So it won't happen that by noon oil is spent and the afternoon gasoline are unleaded and so on. So, I'm asking you to think of this, here at third, I'm allowing, of course, a correction in terms of this intervention of domestic production, where what, I think it's a shame, I've been informed that Pasat is here as a domestic product, so maybe here for so much, for that shade they could use that too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14175	Duraković, go ahead. Let Mrs. Sopta prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14176	I'll give the same initiative for a while. In fact, the very fact that members of the Presidency have not come to this Parliament once or twice at least to hear what problems we are facing, and to find out how these reform principles are being achieved or how our legislative initiative is going, etc. And the fact that this report did not send its representatives at least to provide some important information actually speaks only about the Presidency's relationship to this country. What they've actually done so far according to their, of course, constitutional powers, the general court is one big nothing. The way the presidency behaves, it shows the malts that it's too high and that only the frees are draining this poor country and spending taxpayers' money. They even represent the representative or, as it is said, the decorative function is done in a poor and sloppy way. Now about the costs. It is true that the members of the Bureau differ individually by wasteful means. But it almost doesn't matter. Why, for example, as a collective organ, collectively and responsibly did not behave, so let's say something was saved. I know the information that the previous presidency has inherited, say, 200 thousand marks of loss to be in surplus for several hundred thousand at the end of their term. This is an example, I don't know I've been doing some analysis for myself, now it doesn't matter, I'm talking, but there's a quiet, no expression for it. I did an analysis to say our Presidency spends more than the National Council, which is the Presidency of Switzerland, to spend more than the President of Germany's richest European state, to spend more than the Prime Minister of Japan, etc. We should talk about it a little bit. Of course, simply the Presidency shows these to all, politically irresponsible, arrogant, wasteful. Well, I'd say in that sense, and immorally. It knows that this Parliament is unfortunately unable to replace it. But we can look at a special appeal just as a moral act, for the presidency to resign collectively. Of course, I doubt they'll do it, but it's still my suggestion, but if this doesn't go through, I have a second proposal that individual MPs, of course, those who want it, sign this initiative. And finally, what this Parliament could at least do is that we don't need to impose, but that's to say that the competent authorities, of course, are only the competent authorities, if they find the elements, file misdemeanors and possibly some other charges against the responsible persons who led to this chaos and this general defamation. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14177	I thank Professor Duraković. The word has Mrs. Sopta. Have Professor Dr. Kunić prepare himself. Just to remind you, here is the secretary general, whether so, the BiH presidency, is authorised on behalf of the institution, if he feels the need.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14178	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the impact of the revision I don't think we should even think that even the debaters who have spoken so far have not expressed enough how important and important it is and how much they've done so far. I think that the effect of her work will especially come to light after the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget according to which they will make up a list of missing regulations, regulations, procedures, all of them, I don't know what are called acts that are missing in the work of all institutions of the state, and in the transcripts they have done in these institutions, it is almost possible to read that they are not aware of what the revision warns them about, but are being defended entirely from some other things. I'm a little surprised by the discussion of previous colleagues saying they had the courage, how dare they were, so man, that's also the task of reviewing. I don't think the revision would have done its job without impartially processing all the audit reports properly, in accordance with the regulations and standards prescribed. So I'm afraid that we don't spoil them a little bit, that they say yeah, now we can relax a little bit, when we've done this well, these congratulate us on our courage, there won't be anything wrong. Even now, I see no reason for the Bureau's report to be a special item of the agenda in front of this Parliament. Why? Because so far reports have usually been analysed and watched together, and because it is not the only institution that has a negative report, and also because a negative report in some institutions is no big difference between someone who has been given a positive opinion with the reserve. So, I don't think many of us here who have discussed it have even understood the importance of the revision. Usually it's about over-costs, so even the economics of business is mentioned, I don't think we can control or talk a lot about the economics of business, about spending, come on, maybe, maybe not, I think we should discuss it even more when we discuss the Presidency's work report. Maybe something's not expensive if it was a good evac for it. It's more important for the audit that everything that's been done, that it's in accordance with the regulations, that the procedure is done properly. And that's what we've seen, what we've seen in almost all institutions, that it's not done professionally and that it's not done in accordance with the regulations, or that it's either not done in accordance with the regulations or there are no regulations that regulate it. With the Presidency as pointed out as a special item of the agenda, we have seen a shift in the positive, a positive shift that has been identified in the systematization of jobs as assistant general secretary for finance and budget, for the organisation and monitoring of finance and the cost of obtaining basic funds and all of that. However, what was wrong with it? Bad people are placed in those places. Unprofessional, not bad people, but unprofessional people are placed in these places. The Budget Finance Commission has seen it, warned, perhaps too harsh and it seems to me here somehow, let's say, a little inappropriate but well let it stand like this in our report, we called for it to change. And I think it's going to be a positive shift, even though I got the impression that even in the transcript of the presidency, it didn't take it as some kind of big mistake. But here's what we said explicitly, and I think that's where one move is going to be made. So I suggest to Mr Lagumdžija that although he is not here, yet, this is a preliminary report, at least wait for the final report and that the final report, that we discuss the conclusions after the final report and not after the preliminary report. 86 I, too, have also resented the Presidency so far that it has not sent its representatives to the Commission or to Parliament, and here's the luck we have their representative today, although I will now be honest with you a little bit now, I understand why they don't come. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14179	Dr. Kunić. I'd like to thank Mrs. Sopta, please. No more reports. I'm asking you to sign up, so I have a responsibility to plan the time and the other points, and I'm not denying anyone, but here's the call.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14180	I think it's a chance to say rationally something about this report on the basis of some objective indicators, and that's what we have. It doesn't take much party attention to this report and the sutation. I think we can get out of these frames and look at the whole report. I said in my own time that the Office of Audit, or that it should be invented that it was not created. It is one of the most important institutions in transition, so with many other laws to come, that office is one of the most important and daqa, although I am taking the opportunity to give them full support and to be objective when they present some facts, to present facts as a whole. Why am I saying that? Because I noticed that the report in RS has been followed by some things that are not needed, and some very important facts have not been given. Therefore, each report must be truly objective, regardless of who it is, and it must be a state of fact completely. It seems to me that this report provided by this Refision Office is going in that direction to be quite objective and let's hope that this institution becomes the real institution of BiH. I've been thinking a lot about the decapitations that were made in RS these days. So he remembers the head, the shift of people by the High Representative. And then I came really into a situation to ask myself a question, is it possible for people to change who have sinned? It's simple in our system, how it functions now, and that's what it's called. Modified system passed, not possible. Because the one who holds power, the one who hangs on, even if anything, he won't admit his mistake. And I'm afraid we'll be suffering for a long time from that disease. I'm afraid, I'm afraid, given the situation in Parliament. I've concluded well, she remembers the head, simply the institutions are unable to carry out the shift of some people, and if you assume that they're wrong, that they're working illegally, that they're dealing with crime, etc., so there's a question here, so when are we going to get into this situation that institutions are replacing us with people, and not waiting for someone to say that, I mean, Mr. Lagumdžija this, that this is what the High Representative is doing to us with murky powers and an even more dim mandate that he's giving him, who gives him? The Committee or the Implementation Council, through what vision does it give him? What legal basis is that? If we discuss it, he's gone. It's a political mandate to be able to do that, give him one political body. Of course, I say how do we avoid it? That's how we'll avoid it when we've created responsible institutions. The presidency here is not a responsible institution. I'm not for any memory of the presidency's head, etc. But the presidency has to take serious lessons from this report, so it can't behave like this. The Presidency of the State must, its conduct must be an ethical example for others and this report is not at all that. This report isn't at all if you see a purchase of a car of 200 and a few thousand marks. Please, it's five apartments these days. Not to say it has become a modernity in all of BiH, and in entities I know less about the situation in cantons and I see it has become the same in BH institutions. So is that moral? At the very least, it's not. It is not moral to buy a car of 200,000 marks and we have this situation of hungry people, people without apartments, etc. or the spending of the funds listed by the Commission shall be referred to in this way. I don't think that's what it is, that we need to discipline ourselves a little bit and take care of it and move within the budget. He'll cover the position, he'll perform a rebalancing, it's certainly our presidency, which is to be expected... but how good that is, I can say it, gentlemen. I was 87 ministers for two years, I left half a million in the budget. I've left both years of funds behind. Of course, but that auditor didn't point out what to point out. Positive examples should be highlighted. It's not just bad examples that need to be pointed out. If you find some positive business of the institution, then you should point out because it is good to look at others. Therefore, I think that the basic, of course, objective of this report should be for the Presidency to look at this situation and, of course, look at its work in a self-critical way. I have no illusion that the presidency will resign because there is no resignation in BiH. Everything's allowed here. No moral scruples. We're gonna have to wait a lot, a lot until that time is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14181	Thank you very much, Professor Kunić. Mrs. Palavrić, Mr. Ranko Ninković, acting secretary-general of the BiH presidency, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14182	I thank the chairman above all, and I must resort to what Mrs. Sopta said and express my regret that we have succumbed to pressure and that today we are considering a separate review report on the presidency alone. Because let me be more important as a citizen, whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office acted in accordance with the law, whether the BiH Court acted in accordance with the law, rather than the Presidency, because that's what the height of their salaries say. But what's there is, what's the fact in the Presidency is that the funds they spent are those funds that we approved with the budget. What none of my predecessors have said here and I am sorry about that, is the fact that Mr. Tihić has written twice I mean reviewing and warned of unintended spending of funds, however, that it seems that it did not receive an adequate answer. And that the budget rebalancing of the presidency was not necessary because of the needs of Mr Tihić, which ranged from around 600,000 marks. We can discuss whether and whether this is too much in the situation we are in, but as my predecessors have said, individual responsibility here is very relevant and I think we need to look at people individually, as each of them has acted. Which is why I'm still sorry the other reports aren't here. We don't have a report here between the rest of us and the Parliamentary Assembly. For a long time, we won't have much to say for the past month. I must say, I must share with you my concern that if it is true, that the heads of clubs and presidents of the commission have the right to drivers and that since the new club chaired by Mr Gligorić was formed, I do not know if it is true but there is information, that Mr Gligorić on the driver only spent 1,800 marks in this situation last month and at the same time suggests that members of the Presidency are driving to meetings of statesmen in damages or possibly passports of domestic production, then I really do not know how to find words of such behaviour. So, if that's true, then let's really stop being insecure, especially stop using the dictionary that Mr Gligorić uses so casually and throws himself at everyone. So, I don't want to defend anyone, the laws are to be respected, the audit should do exactly what Mrs. Sopta pointed to, and I expect from the Office of Audit and I expect in the future, even more frequent reports. Maybe it's too long to wait a year, let the analysis be done more often because after a year some mistakes can't be fixed. It's hard to fix them, but I think today, as the point was put on, so my predecessors, the majority of them, have fallen on members of the Presidency like they don't know me, someone who's not really chosen by the will of the citizens to represent him. They will be decided by the citizens, but I think they deserve more respect and a better dictionary in this House, and especially by example by showing them how they should behave. Thank you very much. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14183	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Sopta, then Mr. Gligorić. We also have Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović reported for discussion. Do you want to go before? I'm sorry, thank you very much, and another general auditor, Mr. Samid Mušović, has come forward. Here you go, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14184	I'd like to replicate Mrs. Palavrić. When it comes to individual consideration, the monitoring of individual cabinets, we have a report on the work of the Presidency. It's an institution of state. It's not the institution's fault in other institutions either. It's the individuals. Individuals will be discussed by someone else if a matter of responsibility is introduced in the procedure of the people who have done something. We're talking, and it's right there, and I think it's both injustice and error, and I'm the only one who's resented the work of the Office of Audition, although I'm also building on what Mrs. Palavrić said, that she's calling, I didn't call for an audit to work like I said, because the audit is doing great. I only had an objection to that revision, that it was not necessary to observe individually. After their explanation, I realized why they wrote it like that. As Parliament we are talking about an institution, someone else will determine individual responsibility. I believe that we, as Parliament, should discuss this here and discuss it. The revision, I say once again, I underline it for good, it needs to be supported, because without reviewing me safely to lose a lot of coordinates and it is very important that they maintain this professionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Gligorić, replica. Was it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14186	Yes, it is. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda point is not Tihomir Gligorić, Mrs. Sead Palavrić. You keep running away from some responsibility, guarding your leader, and going to something defined in this House of Parliament. I, as club chairman, have the right to drive. That's what the chairman's commission has. I took Mrs. Sead to a young man who's been at the Bureau for five years, under a contract that's neither party nor family, and that's a chance to make some kind of money. And that, how many times do I come here, it's a matter of irrationality, so Mr. Mirsad Ćeman instead of today or yesterday when I'm here, to schedule, he doesn't schedule until 3:00 tomorrow morning at the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I, as a professional MP, come to every commission, everywhere I go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14187	And Mr. Ćeman on the agenda, like you didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14188	Eh, it's not but be careful, but don't ask if I'm the chairman, let the chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14189	But let's be some rules
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14190	Do I have to come to the phone calls as an MP or don't need them? Just tell me. It's easy for me, I'm doing some equally important jobs, I don't have to come. I can give you my word that I will not come to you with any commission or resign on all committees, so you consider it. But you can't ask for someone to work, and at the same time this House has established rules. Set yourself up, people, be rational, therefore, I can only not come to you on such committees. And Mrs. Sead Palavrić, this, by the way, is an incorrect piece of information, which I didn't even know was being spied on by the opposition in that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14191	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. There's no need anymore, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14192	kolega Gligorić, Mirsad Ćeman, as chairman of the commission, scheduled the commission at 3:00 a.m. so that we should be doing a little rationally, because at 10:00 we have a debate on the single rights to make legal rules in BiH institutions. So, the Code of Standardization and I use the opportunity when you're here, both tomorrow and as members of the Constitutional Commission, that's what we do and we run and that's why. It's just that you don't think I've been making your job harder, I'm just trying to be rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14193	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14194	I thank the chairman. I will report on the revision of both the Presidency and other institutions, so on the report, not saying anything about the report about us. With full right, of course I'm talking about the review report again. First, let me start from behind, and I'll suggest we don't conclude anything. It's unusual but, uh, for the simple reason why I urge us all to ask ourselves when we honor one of our conclusions. Or should we go back to the debate for two years in this Parliament's assembly, when we discussed the audit reports, and concluded a lot of things. In particular, the Commission's motion for finance and budget and no conclusion is absolutely respected. The result is that we have reports like this from the Audit Office today. And with that I propose that we do not conclude anything, and secondly, what I mean is that we ask ourselves here when it comes to responsibility how much we are, or how responsible this Parliament is. First, we are only now discussing the reports on the revisions presented here, let me be corrected by representatives of the Audit Office at least a month and a half ago, which were created in the public media, and through the media, by the current atmosphere that no one felt the specific weight and even this Parliament, let me direct it to the College even though we should individually ask here why Parliament is in a permanent session, after such an alarming warning and atmosphere created in the media, whether it is with argument or not, did not schedule an extraordinary session on the Review Report. So let's ask ourselves a little bit why we're only discussing now, why in these late afternoon hours of 16 to 6, and why with some appeals constantly on some procedures, on making rules of the game, etc. Here I'll remind you all the same thing we concluded with a little more specific weight a year and a half ago. Furthermore, I will remind you that many of the rules, procedures and functioning of the institutions at the state level, and I will remind you specifically of the Public Procurement Act, exclusively in the jurisdiction of this Parliament, so just remember how much and what kind of debate we are, 90
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14195	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, you may sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14196	So I'm going to remind you how much and what kind of debate we've been having, whether we should even pass the Public Procurement Act, or, for example. some similar laws that between the rest regulate such an area, or, say, institutions, when we have laws that we consciously bypass. If necessary, I will remind you here, all of you who have raised your hands for proper laws, amendments to laws, decisions, etc. which were contrary, to existing laws in force. For those who know English, I will remind you that the audit report is about... and we all know what it is, which points to the specific gravity of how audits, i.e. the Office of Audit and the instructions or procedures that the audit report should be, the audit report should give to such institutions such as Parliament. We didn't recognize that, of course. So all this talk that's going on here today, especially the one that calls for morality, seems too high. Why am I talking about morality? For the simple reason it's in the economy, the issue of the economy and had to be a particular question. And if we only appeal here to morality, possibly for moral reasons, and not for some particular reason that's listed in this report, then we're going to have this same discussion, same conclusions next year. And what I would especially like to remind you all, that a year ago, when we discussed the audit reports of both the Presidency and the other institutions, we concluded that the relevant powers, i.e. to address a little not only the Office for Auditing in terms of their engagement, how much strengthening the specific weight, both the Office for Auditing and the specific weights of the Special Reports of the Office for Auditing, so I would like to ask you, that is, that we all question who has ever held responsibility, both for failing to comply with their obligations, and for breaking the law, as well as for not respecting the instructions or procedures of the Office for Auditing and why no one has ever held responsibility. Here, I'll finish up again in the end, so we don't figure anything out. We apologized nicely, we'll tell the same story for the next time, that is, during the next debate, to conclude that there are rules and procedures to be made, to be aware of these reports by the Office of Audit, until we change ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. I will just remind myself that we received the report in the procedure on 10.06. and that we have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, made it possible to discuss it on the committee responsible and as soon as it was ready and in one initial form we put it at the House session and today we have the opportunity to say without, here no one limits the discussion or direction and above the party and respecting Parliament's role, everything we think about both this and the next reports. The word was requested by Mr. Ranko Ninković, then Mr. Samir Mušović, please. Mr. Ranko Ninković, acting secretary-general of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14198	Mr President, honourable MPs, I feel it is necessary to stress that the Presidency in the past year has functioned on conditions that...the budget that was 87% of the 2002 budget, i.e. 2 million and 982,000 KM, was less than 400,000 darkness compared to 2002, and we had a situation that the cabinets of the Bureau members had a greater 91-full of existing systemization than in the previous period. This led the presidency to a very unenviable situation when it comes to financial business. For these reasons, the appropriations through the budget rebalance last year and the Council of Ministers on two occasions approved funds from the current budget reserve to meet the needs of the Presidency. It should be noted that the Presidency has not breached the appropriations. Namely, the realization or execution was 98% of the appropriations in 2003. In the second half of 2003, the Bureau’s professional services, in co-operation with cabinets, launched activities to improve the procedures in the Bureau when it came to making commitments and paying obligations, as the findings of the audit were the same for 2001 and 2002. At the same time, acts of the Presidency were analysed internally which regulated the process of creating obligations, paying invoices, payments through the system, through the vault system. These activities have also led to the adoption of the Rules on Material Financial Business, which we have united several acts into an internal act which has removed these shortcomings. Unfortunately, the adoption of this Regulation produced results, more significant results during the half of this year, so that in the first part of 2004, we removed most of the remarks that the revision observed. Following the very report by the Audit Office, the Bureau adopted an Operational Plan to address the shortcomings. This plan is being implemented and we have already adopted, for example, the financial plan for expenditure for this year, we have adopted amendments to the relevant pay and fee acts. Of course, not in the section relating to salary increases, on the contrary, the presidency refused any salary increases and demanded that a special law be passed to define salaries at the level of BiH institutions, but rather defined individual labour rights. We also adopted rules on the use of the residence facility Konak. Other rules are also being drawn up to limit individual costs under the Presidency budget. The operational plan provides for all these shortcomings to be addressed within three months, and we are convinced that material financial operations in the Presidency will be fully improved during this period. Maybe there's something else to point out. In fact, from previous audit reports, it is obvious that most of the institutions repeat the findings, they are the same. Which means we have certain weaknesses in the system and I think it is necessary to adopt uniform standards and procedures for all institutions in BiH. Also to define the issue of public procurement. We hope the law will be passed as soon as possible. We also have a conflict between the functions of an institution and separate funds. It means someone can work if they don't have enough resources. We now have 30% unfulfilled jobs in the Bureau’s professional service. We can't get paid money. And I think these are issues that need to be resolved at the level of institutions. All procedures for creating obligations, i.e. procedures in material and financial operations, shall be passed by laws which are necessary, also through the budget, in order to approve the resources necessary for the functioning of institutions. The presidency is a formal draftr of the budget, and it has never changed it. He could change his mind to provide the funds he needed. It didn't do that. Now it's said we've broken a terrible budget. And we actually had very little resources at the beginning of the year. I ask you to appreciate it through this debate and the conclusions you're about to draw. Of course, I don't want at all to justify what was found as a failure, and we as an institution are going to try to address all the shortcomings that have been identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14199	Mr. Samir Mušović, general auditor at the BiH Institutions Audit Office. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14200	I welcome the esteemed House, your chairman, the guests, I seem to have answered at the right time. Mr. Ninković, you've broken the budget. Mr. Ninković, you've had excessive consumption. You've received smaller funds, and that's true, but in terms of getting smaller funding from the Audit Office for three years, he's received smaller funds, but then we have meetings, we reduce certain activities, we reduce the number of purchases and we fit in with the funds approved by the Parliamentary Assembly. I mean, I don't blame you, because I don't even have the right to do it. We pointed out the opportunities you had at your disposal, that the liaison officers hadn't bought those vehicles, that other vehicles might have been bought, that gifts might have been planned in a different way, that the number of trips might have been planned earlier, that the rules of consumption were made, would probably have left some money and covered these differences. And about that, there are 30 pages of reports. What we did. We have worked all year to have this day, this address to the Parliamentary Assembly, and the conclusions we look forward to on your part. First of all, Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that this is about the first group of reports because such a conclusion was the commission that the reports are not waiting for September, or more precisely at the end of September, but that after completion we are delivering the group by group. Yesterday we delivered another group of 11 reports. In this group of 11 reports, there are reports that contain 8 and 12 units in them. Another group of 15 reports are expected to take place at the end of this month, we are taking a summer break, and in September we plan to make one kind of summary, a few more revisions that remain and deliver the summary to the Parliamentary Assembly again for consideration. I'd like to answer some questions here. Yes, there were comments that could be considered a threat or let's just say so, here's the pitch and so on, but our deal is, here's Mr. Dragan Kulin that we simply present it as something that normally belongs to this business. We consider it secondary even though there were comments that we'd be out of a job, etc. in a country with so many unemployed, two more doesn't mean anything. And I have to admit, there's been no more of that lately. After turning to the public, it's gone. Actually, we don't want to draw attention to ourselves, we're not as important as what I want to tell you right now because we've been waiting for this day for a year. We're not happy that the presidency has been singled out, because it wasn't our intention. If you're going to have a fair answer on our part, the presidency is based on those findings and the shortcomings could be said in another dictionary as the tip of the iceberg. The whole administration is burdened with more or less that problem. And here you would answer to the honourable MP that we are not yet up to give positive examples and praises, until the next happens, we are now in a situation where we all lose, all of us, absolutely all citizens, you, us auditors, all of us who are dependent on the budget and those who pay taxes. I will openly tell you hundreds, hundreds of rules of limitations, missing. In fact, I also reviewed last night once again, from 170 items about 150, or it was either not regulated at all, or not regulated enough. And from this situation, where we are all losing, I would ask the distinguished House and the distinguished MPs and MPs to launch now or never, a major action this summer towards the executive authority, to the people who can, who are formed, who are making a significant service for this country, to launch major activities to build missing rules, regulations, and austerity measures. And a measure of savings. We'll start with the Audit Office. And a austerity measure. So what we're missing is I'd like to repeat once again, take advantage of, abuse this opportunity to say so, and these are the system rules for public spending. We will, as promised, provide the committee with lists of budget items that we know of or are under-regulatory or have no regulation whatsoever. If this summer is missed, especially on September, we will start a new revision in October with the big 93 questions, whether people should have taken the car or not and whether they can buy that gift or not. Everything remains discreet. And further, what we're missing, which is what we're going to do from day to day, which is that there's no systemic concept for internal control systems. This matter and this responsibility lies with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, or the Council of Ministers, to adopt itself as the concept of BiH administration, which means that in a unique way you have accessed the internal control system, which means that each Head of the Budgetary Organisation assumes on itself, or the management of the budgetary organisation, however it is set up, and in your case you have transferred it to the Secretariat, and in the case of the Presidency, it has been transferred to the Secretariat, to proceed with the systemic concept of introducing system measures, system control and control by management. In this context, spending rules would be adjusted according to the needs of each of the budget users, which means here we would make a representation rule, but this rule is linearly variable for just maybe 70% of the administration. One part...the chairman of the Council of Ministers, three members of the Presidency, foreign minister, they must have exceptions, that is all the work that awaits us. If we don't do it again, next year's review will be in the same situation, and this will be said in front of the Parliamentary Assembly. There's something else we're missing. We're missing an internal audit with large budget users. We're literally missing an office of one or more internal auditors, who aren't waiting for us external auditors to find out about those fuel bills, you know. That they control business on a daily basis and are responsible for their work to the manager of that institution. Here, first of all, we think of the Foreign Ministry, the State Border Service, the SIPA Agency and so on, and large users. I would like to inform you that we have had meetings with three members of the Bureau, following a presentation of the report to the public and the Parliamentary Assembly. Three members of the presidency expressed representatives of the Office for Auditing Willing to head ahead of their doors first. It means they start with measures and moves that will correct the observed irregularities. After that, we asked members of the Bureau to pay attention to these system procedures that stand before you. We told them we'd ask for help from you too, because most of the time this situation depends on the three of them and on you here today. The Bureau members believe that at least that's what they told us, that they are considering introducing an internal auditor to them. Folkly speaking, Mr. Chairman, we would need a great deal of storage in terms of regulations, missing rules and regulations. In such a situation, Mr. Kunić, we are prepared to refer here weekly on positive steps. That's that positive moment we've been waiting for. We've had no reason until now. And you are aware that this Parliamentary Assembly has adopted a large number of audit reports and then we return to the review report only 12 months after that. This year we're doing something different, obviously different. We need rules, regulations, we need an internal control system for every budget user, we need internal audit, and we need the support of the media and each individual to finish this summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14201	Thank you very much to Mr Samir Mušović. I think it was both exhaustive and useful and with quality reviews and suggestions. So, as far as the House of Representatives is concerned, we have accepted that these reports are concessionably held in plenary sessions and commissions. So, let's not wait for the end of the year, and so we've accepted this dynamic and rhythm that you've kind of opened up with your own approach. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. 94 We have the next situation. So we have the first preliminary report from the committee responsible on the Financial Business Audit Report of the BiH Presidency for 2003 and we have 13 proposals for conclusions on my record. I now propose, given the importance of these conclusions, I think that really most of them deserve this, and analysis and elaborate, and since the commission has delivered us a preliminary report, please let us be really constructive now all. So, where it has an obligation to submit, ultimately, a full report, on the methodology provided for, to take these conclusions into its jurisdiction and to prepare a final report with these conclusions, to this House. And MPs who believe that their conclusions are not adequately treated by the commission can reopen it at the House. And that this House begins with a continuous debate on these issues. With that I ask you to say, therefore, that with these conclusions recorded, you will also get in writing, 13 I do not know if you are Mr Duraković, it seems to me that you have had some kind of suggestion, conclusions, but I have not received them in writing, perhaps that they are also instructed to take this part that has now been presented in terms of creating assumptions for systemic improvement, the commission takes it as a serious job. Let's get a proposal for measures here. I think it was useful, from the law that needs to be changed in that sense to internal controls and that we have one round system and that we have some effect from this debate. I think these conclusions have both a head and a tail and a logic, here's what I'm trying to figure out, I'm opening up, here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14202	That members who, that those who have made the conclusion, have been invited by the commission to attend. I think that would be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14203	I'll take it. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14204	And this is all fine, correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14205	Okay, can we get to the bottom of this? I'm asking the House to make a statement by voting. Vote now. I thank the MPs, and we unanimously adopted this proposal for conclusions that I have presented here to the House. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the debate, and we expect that this is the beginning of a continuous dealing with very important issues for the institutions and for the people of BiH. I'm asking you to try to find a deal on the next points. By my judgment we could end up with this point Security Information might require proper treatment and if you agree we try to exhaust the agenda and continue the 27th with this agenda point. Do you agree? I think that point deserves such treatment and we'll start with it as a follow-up session before the beginning of the 42nd session. I thank everyone and Mr. Mektić, and this is the one I tried to take down today, but we're really having a debate. 95 All right, we're going to the 20th point of Ad.20. Report of the Office for Audit, Audit of BiH institutions, and below 1. BiH Election Commission, 2. Regulatory agencies for communication, 3. Statistics agencies, 4. State Border Services, 5. Offices for Joint Affairs BiH institutions, 6. Institute of Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property. My proposal would be, since it is a preliminary report, and since these conclusions you have proposed, these 13 defacto relations and each one of these institutions, that we should consider as a whole when the Commission is absoluteing conclusions, that it is not necessarily a preliminary but definitely a report from the Commission and that we are having a debate as a whole. Can you accept this conclusion? Mrs. Leho, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14206	I would remind you that when we introduced the 2002 report, the Treasury Department ordered under 4, to make up the missing rules for effective management procedures and to instruct budget users. If that were done, not all users would now have a problem with internal control procedures, unconscious spending, etc. That's why I would suggest that with what the Office of Audit is in charge of, because he promised us at a committee meeting, that he would point to every expense for which the rules and procedures should be laid down, that the Ministry of the Treasury should now be involved and that he would realize what this House had given him on the job, and he hadn't realized boredom. So, I just want to expand and remind the Treasury that this should have been done, that the reports for this year 2003 wouldn't have looked like this if they'd done their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leho. I say the commission will call for this session to discuss these conclusions and the Office for Audit and the Ministry of Finance. And this, here, commission is really putting our commission in an active role, related to the proposal for systemic measures and the way in which Parliament can respond to these demands. That's the point of this debate. Can we take it? I suggest that we also say by voting on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. So with 24 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we have concluded that the six institutions' reports are being held at the committee's hearing. When making up a definitive report, 13 proposed conclusions on the business debate, the financial business of the BiH Presidency, also refer to these institutions and that the Commission prepares a full report and a proposal for measures to systematically improve the financial performance of all BiH institutions. Thank you very much. 96 We move to 21st, that's Ad.21. A review of the Council of Ministers' conclusions reached to consider the conclusions of the House of Representatives on 23.06. The Council of Ministers provided you with a review of the conclusions taken to consider the conclusions of the House of Representatives. You've got that material, I'm opening the debate. Is there a need for a debate? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14208	Here are the conclusions, and each ministry has given these conclusions one view of the need to answer parliamentary questions. So these are all the sessions of the 10th of July 2003, today is what date? You see, since we didn't get the answers. I have to tell you that I didn't get an answer for at least 6-7 questions, so I said I won't ask any more questions. I mean, here's what they've been saying, finding out themselves that they don't respect the attitudes of this house here. I ask you here in these conclusions to say, insist on it or say there is or no answer and I will not ask any more questions. I mean, it's the essential thing or if they came here, I'd like to get an answer orally because then it's all the same. Therefore, I also consider this report a recognition by the ministries of a mistake not to answer these parliamentary questions. I mean, every one of these ministries has pointed that out, and I think it's correct on their part, but it's incorrect for us to repeat and ask these questions over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14209	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Jelina Đurković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14210	I must note that there is no conclusion in this material at all in this House's Parliamentary Assembly, which was passed, adopted on our plenary fourth floor. The plenary session on the formation of a commission. Therefore, there is no conclusion ignored and it is not good if, in a report like this, the Council of Ministers ignores the conclusion. I pray to be directed to the Council of Ministers to correct our conclusions of the order where it should be and to be manifested according to these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14211	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14212	I'm going to be really, really short because this material doesn't deserve a single look.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14213	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Križanović. I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14214	I'll be very brief. I'm really disappointed with both quality and content and too much material that doesn't say anything. I'm calling on three colleagues, if they understand what's been done here from the conclusions of this House, then I'm withdrawing my story and I'm going to be in favor of adopting a report like this. It's very important, I've said it several times, because of my reputation, because of the importance of this House, that we once know how our conclusions end. We can't even figure that out from this information, let alone look at it. That's why I suggest that we really return this to the Council of Ministers at the very least or make a commitment that we do our own analysis of the execution of our conclusions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14215	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14216	Let's find a way out of this situation Mr. Križanović was talking about. In fact, people have made a kind of inventory and you can see that 90% of things are in progress, they're given orders etc. but look at the accompanying act. In an accompanying act, the Council of Ministers informs us that it has concluded that all ministries are in priority to implement the conclusions, etc. So, I suggest that the House of Representatives express dissatisfaction with the number of unrealised conclusions and intervene with the Council of Ministers to speed up activities at least for those most significant conclusions that they have not realized. There's security policy and a series of other conclusions. I think this can be done, so it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14217	I thank you, I think this proposal, which Mr Belkić put forward, can respond to these proposals that before, that we actually ask the Council of Ministers for the implementation of the conclusions priorityfully, with the assessment that one significant part of the conclusions is not realised on time or by deadlines. Do you want Mr. Križanović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14218	We know which conclusions are realised or not, that I'm not talking about why they're not. This report I don't see, therefore, I say either we or we can reject this report and ask for a new report or we can commit ourselves inside the House to make an analysis of our own conclusions and their fate and their realization.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14219	Well, you see, Mr. Križanović, I'm not ruling out that this proposal of yours rules out Mr. Belkić's proposal. We can and should make our own inventory and our own vision, this was done by the Council of Ministers. In relation to the Council of Ministers, we can ask for this, and give our first assessment that one significant part of the conclusions we adopted is not realised, that they enter into a priority realization when the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries are asked and that we, in parallel, make inventory of both our vision and this House debate open. 98 Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14220	I am close to Mr. Belkic's opinion, with what I was told or Mr. Belkić said they would make a selection more important in that regard. No, there is no selection at all, especially if they did it when they asked the conclusions, because they would never answer one, but that what was not done, and then apply this conclusion that Belkić made.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14221	Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14222	I have another proposal, to complete the conclusion, to provide us with a list of all the conclusions they have received and from what is realized and what is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14223	Well, that's it. I think this proposal, which Mr Belkić put forward, can in some way maintain the active position of the House towards the Council of Ministers and the fact that we do not accept this report as a final act, but we are giving one assessment that not one significant part of our conclusions have been realised and that they take it as a priority and report it to us. I'm putting that proposal on a plea. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. So, with 26 votes to, 2 against, without the abstentions and enough entity majority, we accepted this proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Beriz Belkić. We're going to the 23rd point now. We said we'd leave this safety information for the next session, that's A.23. Giving consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of the BiH institutions You have received a decision from the BiH Presidency on the establishment of a proposal for candidate chief auditor of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office. The presidency has identified Mr. Šega Milenko as a candidate for the post. Under the law, the Bureau appoints the main auditor, with the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You've also received shorter data. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14224	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, we will support the candidate's proposal on one condition. It is not clear to me, since the candidate's proposal for the auditor general is being established here, whether this implies the role of the auditor-general until the end of the term of office and the other two auditors, which would be normal or would mean the auditor-general for the next five years. 99 So, if this implies, or if this is stated to mean, the position of the auditor-general by the end of the term of office and the other two auditors, then we will support this proposal. To be sure of that, I know we can't change the presidency's decision, but we can in one conclusion, so this attitude that I'm talking about, so we can strengthen this position with one conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14225	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14226	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, I will state on my behalf and on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action's club the same attitude, Mr. Novaković's position, given that the decision cannot affect the appearance of the decision and its content, but it is unclear whether the term of office is five years or until the end of the term of office of the current deputy general auditor. If we can agree to appoint a general auditor by the end of the term of office, it means about a year, there is really no doubt that we support this decision. If that's a five-year term, then I really think we should leave this for later or for someone else at the next session to name this. I think we should just remove this dilemma and finish this part of the job today, if that's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14227	I think there are no doubts here, I only ask my colleagues to be principled when there are other positions in this way that you are today, because this appointment based on the resignation given by Mr Miletić and this, I think it is good that the first person in that institution is appointed and that Parliament does not block in any way in the full capacity of the functioning of that institution. Please, if there are no others reported for the hearing, I'm locking up the hearing. Mrs. Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14228	I have a dilemma. The auditor-general is appointed for five years and has no right to be re-appointed. I think the mandate of these auditors will expire somewhere at the end of this year. I now have a question whether this person, has the right to be re-elected as the auditor general? Because it's one dilemma now that really
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14229	Why wouldn't I have this one, no one's denying the possibility to name, to be appointed again?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14230	He can't be appointed twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14231	Mr. Mušović, can you help us? We have one question asked by Mr. Novaković and here is Mr. Hazim Felić regarding the mandate of the chief auditor. MUŠANOVIĆ 100 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] I think that we can give consent with the interpretation that this is instead of resignation, that this is about Mr Miletić's resignation, the previous consent we give as the Parliamentary Assembly, and I don't think it makes any sense that we don't do it today, that we delay it. With this conclusion I made, did you want Mrs. Palavrić anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14233	If you'll excuse me, I think the Bureau shall appoint after the consent of both homes. We can give consent and in the meantime it will be until the appointment likely
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14234	But that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14235	I think we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14236	Mrs. Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14237	I understand the need to really appoint an auditor as soon as possible. But I wouldn't want a man to lose his chance to get re-elected for three months. I would return this to the promoter to clarify until the next session and with a clear view, with a clear view that the gentleman has the right to run for re-competition when the mandate expires and these two auditors. I think that would be correct, I don't mind either in the way he suggested the chairman, but then we bring in a real man and we're in a dilemma ourselves and we bring him in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14238	I don't know why there are any dilemmas here. It established the presidency's proposal and delivered us to the previous agreement. And that's the responsibility of the Bureau to appoint a chief auditor, if there are any circumstances related to the candidate himself, I think, come on and don't end up with, isn't a fully filled institution. I think the conclusion is logical and that we can formulate it according to the Presidency. This is our opinion on this, that it is logical that in the appointment package it has, the Bureau takes care of some representation and is not only this institution to question but all institutions are in some way asking where the Presidency is and in this sense I said that it is logical that this distribution is based on the principles and criteria which are established on which the Presidency is otherwise appointed. More than that, I think it's too high and unnecessary right now. Go ahead, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14239	That we, therefore, execute or confirm the appointment, so that the conclusion is defined until when. Let's just say that this appointment here is Mr. Auditors who know when their mandate expires, so we say it's until then and until then. Then let the Presidency deal with it, because look, I'm not just willing to support it if I don't have something behind this that's going to be a guarantee because watch out, a simple conclusion is going to be 101 that's contrary to the law, it's not going to have any power. Tomorrow, the presidency will say that what we adopted here has no power in the law. There is no support of the law and that this conclusion cannot be acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14240	Yes, but we do this appointment to Mr. Novaković according to the law and the basis of the mandated proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14241	According to the law, it's five years. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14242	And we give consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14243	But for five years, we give if we give it like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14244	We respect the law, I mean, but here's what we formulate, so look, I think this doesn't make any sense. So we need to name past the law this, give consent and we are giving the conclusion of respect for this division of functions and principles that have been established in terms of the functioning of the proposal that the Presidency is referring to. Well, it's not just this proposal, there's a hundred more. Well, I don't think it's fair, I don't understand. I really think so. Well, he wants to see there's been a Suada going on, it's already happening, it's been going on for a month, there's been no first man for two days. I mean, why would I be responsible, so what's the matter? Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14246	Take it straight, let's say a debate about this thing, do you have anything against this
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14247	That's exactly what they're doing, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14248	It's a fundamental question and by law it's going to be two years or five years, as it comes to an end this time, the deadline for these auditors, then it's going to be taken there that he's elected to three and it needs to be five, stays five, continues. But here's the essential question, do you have anything in this man against being a criminal, whether he's not or not, that's what I'm interested in. But me, if it's gonna be three or five, it's gonna be legal. The law said how. Come on, please, let's get this over with. I know the principle of what I'm going to do and how I'm going to vote, but don't talk about whether it's three or five now. That's the least of the questions. It'll be legal. Do you have anything against this man? If you do, make an argument that we know that in the decision-making process, about voting to say it can or can't pass. That's just the question. I wouldn't go to that for three and five years, the law said five years. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14249	Look, the person has a profession, he has a certificate, it's a regular proposal, and I really don't see any reason why we're speculating today about what legal provisions are if the appointment is in accordance with the law. Here you go, Mr. Novaković, if you want me to think more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14250	I don't mind the name and last name against this man. He meets the requirements. That's not a question for me. But I'm against being a general auditor for five years. I'm against it, that's what I've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14251	But the law needs to be changed, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14252	You don't need to change the law, then I won't vote for this. I said why I wouldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14253	So you don't want this person or person established by the Presidency to be the head of the institution, you want him not to be an institution in full capacity. That's how I can figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14254	I'm, uh, totally clear, not this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14255	Absolutely, that's the only way to figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14256	I said that I was willing to support the candidate because he met all the conditions until the end of the term of office and then, at the post of the general auditor, I have nothing against even staying an auditor. So, I don't mind a man working as an auditor for five years, but not as a general auditor for five years. That's what this is about, and don't interpret it any other way than what I said. So I have nothing to be an auditor for the next five years. When the mandate expires and these two people are established and appointed by the auditor-general of the three that will be. One of those three will be. This man and two others will be elected. Whoever the general auditor is then in the proposal, I'll support it. I think I'm clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14257	Okay, for a follow-up to the 27th session, but please, I really had one constructive opinion that this kind of principle begins to practice. It really doesn't make sense. Thank you. 103 we have one last item on the agenda. I beg you, it's Ad.24. Giving consent to ratifying the Convention for the Establishment of a European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organisation We have received a proposal that has passed the legislative procedure. Can we make a statement? I'm asking the House of Representatives to make a statement by voting. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously, with 29 votes, we have agreed to ratify that agreement. I'm closing the session. Extension 27 and new 42nd session 27. Please also plan for the 28th time before the annual holidays, anything that is prepared to be completed and the MPs can raise the results of the vote in our services. The session was completed at 1845 hours. 104 Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 41st session of the House of Representatives. I find that the session is attended by 38 representatives. Justice was sought by Mr. Nakaš, there are likely to be two operations, Mr. Lagumdžija, who is in America and who are absent without justice now, for now Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Moranjkić. So we have both the general and the entity majority and we can make full and full decisions. As you know, in the first part of the session because of its length and because of its large and large agenda, we delayed the debate on the point, the Information on the Security State in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we did the right thing. Today we have the opportunity to discuss this one important point of quality at the House and what remains at the 41st session is the appointment of the Chief Auditor of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office. We are now moving to a debate on the Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina Information you have received. You've had plenty of time. Here we have Mr Bariša Čolak, Minister of Security of BiH. Does he want to say a few words and give something about the introduction? Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14259	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I will try to be very brief in my opening section so that you have more opportunity and debate and look for answers to some things that may not be handled in the best way. This information is actually on the trail of your request that the Ministry of Security try to work on the security space of BiH in one whole way, and we have tried to process it all last year in one piece of information, but the judgment was based on statistical indicators and reports on the work of agencies, above all at the level of the state that exists, so the Agency for Information and Protection of the State Border Service, Interpol, the Ministry of the Interior of the RS and the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of BiH, as well as the Police of the Brcko District and Entity Administration of Civil Protection. For the first time this year, there is a full verdict on the entire BiH area in the responsibility of the Ministry of Security, which has been practically inconclusive due to the lack of permanent communication and irregular information between the previous years, and the absence of authorities at the level of the state dealing with this problem in the previous period. Efforts to make up one quality substance, one quality information, on the state of security in BiH, other sources have been used before these already mentioned on the state of 105 security, such as UNDP analyses, the UN-level organisation, the EUPM Mission, OHR and other international institutions. The activities conducted by these bodies are indicated in the Security Information but should be taken into account the fact that they are dynamic and should be monitored in real time when they are done. Of course, certain circumstances present in BiH have significantly affected the functionality or effectiveness of the law enforcement bodies at both BiH and entity levels. The entire activity of the Ministry of Security led to co-ordination with other competent authorities and institutions and focused primarily on stabilising the security situation in BiH. In this respect, operational work has been fully in the position of creating preventive assumptions for the elimination of all occurrences that disrupt or threaten to distort the security situation. In this regard, priority is given to the fight against organised crime, terrorism and human trafficking. Some authorities, especially the MUPs and other law enforcement bodies, have been working on their functions in extremely difficult, in extremely complex material financial and spatial conditions. Despite initiatives to improve the material position and supply of necessary equipment and space, without which the efficient work of these bodies is unimaginable, however no necessary and necessary logistics was provided. The overall picture of the security situation is also influenced by the difficult material position of finance that has also been reflected in the standard of living of police management officers, the Federal MUP, the RS MUP and, consequently, the motivation for their work. The diversity of income in individual police, i.e. the level of their income, is also well known and is not unfortunately in the previous time, the time behind us has made no quality progress, although there have been several initiatives by the Police Administration in this regard, both the Ministry of the Police of the Ministry and the RS, so both the RS and the Federation, in order to level out their status, i.e. their receipts. And then, of course, there's a drop in cavalier footage, because of these low wages, and new quality personnel in very difficult or almost never come to the police. In the past year, you know how many laws we've passed in this area and which are still in the process, so I wouldn't want to spend too much time on that part. When the issue of co-operation of the MUPs with judicial authorities is at all levels, it can be concluded that it was still at a satisfactory level and has a tendency to organise and coordinate work, especially when the issue of applying the new criminal law of the Federation and the criminal laws of the entities and the Law of Criminal Procedure, both BiH and the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. This will in any event assume a commitment through training of police officers, restructuring of the Criminal Police, as well as a new organisation of work that will require much greater material resources. Co-operation with administrations dealing with the fight against organised crime at entity level, such as Customs Administration, Tax Administration, Financial Police, FOS, was not in our opinion satisfactory, was not well-coordinated. The example works, if I tell you that just compared to the year before, only the Intelligence Agency, so I think the FOS submitted only 158 information in so far last year, which is a lot less than a year, when it was submitted in 2002 in 638 information. According to both international and domestic institutions, police have fully fulfilled their obligations in these major activities or major actions they had in the past year, the actions of Srebrenica, twice in the action of Petričevac, during a visit to the svet otac and here is this great event that was the other day about the release of the Old Bridge again into office. And that event has passed in the best possible order and peace. 106 Several of these initiatives that BiH is leading in the fight against, and participates in, and in the fight against organised crime and which are significantly linked through certain initiatives such as the SEKI centre in Bucharest and others, where BiH is very actively participating. You know that before the BiH Police Office, a major reconstruction, so the reconstruction of the police force, that this commission has started working these days, and in the next few months, more precisely by the end of the year, will have to be so we have given ourselves the task, done, completed this first part of the job, when we have to specify what the BiH Police will look like, or, in the coming period, the police in BiH, and in this sense I would not want to reconsider anything, but simply say that it will be a difficult work these few months, but in every case, the goal and task of this commission is to introduce the best European practices in the conduct of the police in BiH. As you have seen for yourself in this information, the security situation has been monitored through the security situation for the BiH Federation, then RS, the security situation for the Brcko District, the security of the borders of BiH, and then, within this framework, this information also covered cooperation, that is, the Office for Cooperation with Interpol and ultimately we have information and protection agencies, the Information and Protection Agency and finally we have security assessments in the BiH area, with a proposal for measures, where measures have been developed, measures taken and a proposal for future measures. You will see, or, of course, you will notice that in some segments, crime is characterized by an increase in the total number of criminal acts by about 7.8%, at least where we could combine certain data, compare and you will see that in 2003 the state of crime is characterized by a single increase in the total number of criminal acts by some 7.8%, but I would like to tell you that this is primarily the result of precise records that are based on new rules in the area of the Criminal Law, so from the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code, that we are now getting up as a ministry here is actually filled with the fact that we are a little bit knocked out by the system of work in the Ministry itself, and that we will very quickly, I hope to establish one analytical service that is probably more quality, not likely than I am able to process these data in a better way from the field, police from all agencies, of all the law enforcement agencies. And I hope that the next report we're supposed to make for these first six months will be in that sense even more quality than this one. Here's to starting with, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14260	I thank Mr. Cholak, the Minister of Security of BiH, and I am opening a debate on this information. Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić, deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, please welcome Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14261	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, esteemed guests, here I have reported that while the other prepares to say a few words about this information. In fact, what I must say at the beginning is that this information has been changed since 18.03.2004 and that, regardless of the important problem, it is about the information which, what activities on the ground have therefore changed to a good extent, but what is certain that it is related to a certain period and that it can be conducted a quality debate and it is not a problem when we are discussing any information. What 107 feels is missing when we discuss the security situation, are the active conclusions of the state parliament and the obligations of the people on the ground, or individual ministries to implement them. In this sense, information in the introduction is said here that the last attention or priority is given to the fight against organised crime, terrorism and human trafficking, without saying the adequate data that we have achieved in that segment in BiH, as they are heard of course, unfortunately varying grades within BiH and grades outside BiH. This is, of course, about staff default and lack of financial resources at all levels, as well as inadequate space when the Ministry of Security is asking a question, as well as other organisations within the ministry dealing with the security of internal security in BiH, but as far as I know, a part of these problems in the meantime have been addressed by the active moves of the Council of Ministers. But what concerns me, what I'm talking about, is that in 2003 or the period when the same period of 2003 is compared to 2002, there are no segments concerning the security of general criminality at the general security of people where there has been no growth rate. In a country such as BiH at the time of reforms, it must be worrying about all those dealing with the internal security system. In that sense, here's just some data and I'd like to come to valid conclusions today that would at least make it impossible for us to have the same findings without doing anything. For example, crimes against dignity of personality and morals, here it is said that I am speaking for the Federation, because such a report is, and in fact, when the issue is a general state of security for the Federation area, it is said here that concerns the fact that crimes against property that are the most numerous,...material and other consequences, assume the personality of crime with increased social danger. Total knowledge suggests that an increasing level, an increasing level of organisation of the perpetrators of these crimes, their professionalisation and specialisation, and mobility in BiH territory and beyond. In 2003, there was a sharp increase in the number of crimes, robbery and robbery. An increase of 50.8% compared to 2002. It mentions, for example, the Sarajevo County area by 68 is either a 46.3% increase in Tuzlan, with 64% of Herzegovockoneretva County with 120.7%. What I'm interested in, was any of the structures of the cantonal MUP responsible for the 100% increase in crime in this area? If not, do not expect in the next period, or the period that is going on, from this improvement of the situation believe that there will be an increase in the rate of crime, because I think it is much greater and for me the state of security is not what is written here, but what is not written. This is related to established crimes, and to the part that is in the procession phase. But the problem with this country is that crimes are not revealed until the end, because criminals are doing their job with the authorities and here they say that at least one budget at all levels remains in the gray zone, or in the hands of criminals. I would also like to draw attention to the crimes against the dignity of a person, the morality of which is said to have been an increase of 34% in 2003 compared to 2002. Crimes against property, an increase of 3.6%. The situation in the area of economic crime is said to be 11.5% more reported. So that's what the power of the weary power to bend. What about those who stayed out of this process and the affairs they're talking about, and no one has the power to process them. I also have to say when the question of RS is that it is not a brighter situation, that there has been an increase in crime by 23% in 2003 compared to 2002 or 35.7%, then an increase in crimes against general security of property and people, against property 33.6%. The state of economic crime and what is particularly worrying, as much as we are talking about the state of business crime increase, here is the smallest growth rate in the area of economic crime, and that is what points to the spread of politics and those who do, who are involved in economic crime, or who are involved in economic crime. So what we can conclude from this information even though it dates from March of this year, that there is a general increase in crime in BiH, and that is worrying about this Parliament and the citizens of BiH, and in this sense I propose an active conclusion of this Parliament that where there is an enormous increase in crime in any area, it is given the order to carry out, that there is simply a change of people who run the MUPs at these levels where there has been an increase or resorient people. Otherwise, I'm afraid if we deal only with a dry debate and say okay, the information has covered everything, I'm afraid BiH will continue to go along with the upcoming trend, a trend when crime is of all kinds to the issue. So, I suggest that this conclusion be made to carry out an analysis at those levels where the highest crime rate is shown and to determine the responsibility of the people who lead the resistors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14262	I thank Mr. Špirić. For now, we have a registered Mr. Momčilo Novaković, so Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Beriz Belkić. This is the order, Mr. Sead Avdić and Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14263	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow employees, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, this discussion I just heard, about outlines or pictures and all the discussions that were held on the Commission. So, and there we had this dilemma, whether this is the result of a real increase, or whether it's the result of not saying conditionally increased inventory or discovery of works, so we've been looking for such attitudes in front of this, the Federal MUP and the RS MUP, we've got some clarifications that aren't here in the report and it would be good to find them. But I suppose that will be more said by the Vice-President of the Joint Commission who led the committee's session at the time. I, of course, cannot be as a citizen of this country satisfied that the situation is as it is. It's very difficult to compare if they're not the same input factors at all levels, then it's very difficult to determine where the situation is better, where it's worse. And when she's better and when she's worse. But it's obvious, it doesn't have to be, it doesn't have to go into any analysis, so it's obvious that the situation is bad. Whether less bad or worse than 2002, it seems less important than finding out that it is bad and that the situation in this area is quite burdened with a variety of problems. I'm on the Commission, and that's what I'm trying to say here, against any proposal measures as an integral part of this information. A special measure that is constitutionally known is who is concerned and who can bring them. We can't here, at least not yet impose what the Federal MuP will do, because it is the obligation of the Federation Parliament and the canton to decide on the responsibilities of these people as well as the obligations of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to determine responsibility for the situation in RS. And in that sense, I don't support such suggestions or conclusions. I also do not support the conclusions aimed at prejudge the relationship of the formed commission by the High Representative on the MUP issue. It seems to me that there are such conclusions here and that's one reason why I won't support these conclusions because they simply come out of the domain of the Ministry of Security. I asked the committee what the word "national" meant, so I was told it meant uniquely. If it is unique, then I ask that it be changed into a unique one because it usually means something different to us. And the national strategy for us means something other than a unique strategy, but if here in this text it's a unique strategy, I'm asking it to be a single strategy, not a national strategy. Of course, there are certain conclusions here that the Ministry of Security and other bodies should have done by now, especially when it comes to issues of sublaw regulations in the field of 109 immigration and asylum where we passed the law a few years ago and that nothing has been done after that in regard to sublegal acts. So, again, making a conclusion about something that had been defined by law long ago should have been done, it really wouldn't have made sense. Of course, one number of these conclusions is from the domain of the Ministry of Security and as far as their domain is concerned and quality is acceptable but the overall programme of measures is unacceptable for the Serbian Democratic Party Club and we are closer to the variants to argue that this information is being processed. In fact, it seems to me that there are many other shortcomings I'm guessing other colleagues are going to be talking about. In the end, I'd like to say as my esteemed colleague Vinko would say, I've received material in a language I don't understand. Namely, I got the material in Croatian and in Latin, I warned last time, this is the continuation of the last session, that the SDS Club will not participate in the debate in those laws where the material is obtained, if it does not receive in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14264	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14265	I'm just going to brief my esteemed colleague, Momi Novaković. Then if this is true what counterpart Novaković is talking about, then this debate is pointless. If this Parliament does not have any authority, it cannot reach any conclusion, what are we making a circus in front of the BiH public? But I think this Parliament can conclude that the competent ministries, that the competent ministries, where an enormous rate of crime growth is determined, raises a question of responsibility for Pedi Eždaun's failure to do so. If we're going to get strength in this country, so I'm not talking about redecorating, relationships as they will be, these are the findings of the BiH authorities. If we put an end to this, we look for data processing, then expect every night that cars will fly into the sky, that there will be more crime of economic, human rights violations, etc. and I don't think this Parliament should be deafened by this finding. So no matter who it's about. There isn't, there's no talking power and opposition, most minorities, but I think you should give instructions to the resolution ministries that where there's an increased rate of crime growth, responsibility is determined not to do so by OHR and the international community. So when we get a chance to do it ourselves, we won't. When the representatives of the international community do, then we get angry and say, it's God's injustice. But we can talk here about what a tolerated rate is. Is she 10% in terms of reforms, etc. But gentlemen, an increase of 120% if it does not result in an active conclusion, it is difficult for BiH citizens. Only in that sense, and I think this Parliament has jurisdiction in this area, that we should discuss but send the initiative to the competent institutions. So, not the State Department for what's responsible, entity for what they're responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14266	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mrs Palavrić, the word on behalf of the Defence and Security Commission was asked by the deputy chairman, who chaired the session, Mr Džaferović. Please, here, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14267	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was actually supposed to report at the very beginning of the debate on this item of the agenda, to give you some details that we operated on when we had the debate on the Commission. Therefore, I draw your attention to page 4, the first information in which 110 states that the state of crime is in 2003, although this is about the Federation, but that is true of the RS. In the Federation of BiH, it is characterised by an increase in the total number of crimes by 7.8%. And then, attention to page 44 of the last paragraph says, on the basis of the reports collected, I read as it says, as well as the specificities of the assessment of the state of security in both entities and the Brcko district, and taking into account the state of security of the countries in the environment, Kosovo Macedonia, etc. as well as determining socio-economic factors, we can say that the overall picture of the state of security in BiH is sufficient, with a special note that the security situation is consistent with the aspect of the emergence of new modes, operands and the activities of criminal groups etc. These two things, so on page 4 and page 44, as far as I can remember, for me as a member of the commission, were indisposed, so I asked people who were the most direct, of the most directly responsible for the state of security in our country. So it's possible that on the one hand we have an increased number of crimes recorded as a percentage of 7.8% when the Federation is for example. The issue, on the other hand, is noted as satisfying the security situation in BiH. My question was, in fact, essential and it was – is this percentage a reflection of the really increased criminal activity of individuals and criminal groups in BiH, or could it be the result of increased police work, security authorities or some other data and facts? At a meeting of the commission, attended by the Minister of Security and here present Mr Bariša Čolak, then Director of the BiH Federation Police Administration, I received the answer, in fact, that this is the result of both increased or increased police work and new methodologies in the way of recording and statistical conduct of the crimes committed. I'll continue to draw your attention to some facts here. I think it's very important to read full information and analytically refer to each group of illicit actions, each group of criminal acts. Let's say in the Federation of BiH, when crimes against life and bodies are a question, when killings are the most serious form of crime in 2003, less so than in 2002, by 18 or 29% than they were in 2002. The number of crimes against the general security of people and property has increased. Then, there were fewer crimes against the dignity of personality and morals. The number of crimes against property has increased. More has been recorded or increased the number of criminal offences of unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. More criminal offences have been recorded and detected in the area of economic crime. Look, you've got some crimes you can't hide, which are happening, and they're visible and recorded whether or not the perpetrator was discovered. But there are some crimes that can't be seen and that can only be seen when these crimes are revealed. My question went that way. And then, when it comes to RS, there are a number of crimes against life and the body. There is, therefore, when these most serious crimes were asked, 38 murders were committed in 2003, 6 of which have not yet been enlightened and their number is higher by 10 or 35.7% compared to the previous year. The number of crimes against the general security of people and property has increased. The number of crimes or criminal acts has been increased, or there are fewer crimes against the dignity of personality and morals. The number of crimes against property has increased. More crimes in the area of economic and economic crime have been found, and when it comes to the issue of the Brcko District of BiH, all of these elements, or groups of crimes, as it stands here in information, are less recorded in 2003 than in 2002. The Commission supported this information, according to the report, and delivered it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. I think that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is here in this situation, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on this information must, of course, pay due attention with a sufficient degree of seriousness, access the analytical examination of all the data in this information and determine the measures to be taken so that in the coming year we have a 111 security situation in BiH better than it was in the previous year and so on year after year. I personally, so I know that there was something on the committee that Mr. Novaković was talking about, so that's the truth. Mr. Novaković and another number of members of the commission have pointed out objections to the proposal for measures listed here in this information, but it should also be said that there were people among whom I was, who had no objections to the proposal for measures. I believe that this proposal is a solid framework for taking a number of activities by a series of state authorities to say that in BiH we have a better security situation from year to year. What I was talking about at the commission's session was a question of responsible people's influence not arresting the fugitive, accused war criminals on the security situation in BiH about what and information there is not a single word. I also think it is a very important, important moment that affects the situation in BiH. And finally, let me say, it's not about the commission meeting, it's what's going on in the last two, three days here in Sarajevo, that Parliament should, therefore, request an energetic action of the police involved in these criminal acts of arson of explosive devices, crimes that disturb the entire Bosnian Herzegovic public, an energetic action to prevent the perpetrators of these crimes, the organisers of these crimes as soon as they bring to justice and the future from such illegal criminal activities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14268	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word is Mrs. Sead Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14269	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a report that actually reflects the situation on the ground when it comes to the powers of the BiH Ministry of Security and the entity interior ministries and Brcko District. I'd be a lot happier if the Ministry had the capacity and, because I know they're not there yet, to at least make the same criteria in the sense that they're just misleading entity data. This is how we actually have three partial reports in this safety report. But that's how we can't say that's the point, but we really have to do everything we can to enable this ministry to do what the full capacity can for what it's established. And it's been a while since it happened and we're spinning around in circles, you know. The Ministry doesn't have people, people don't have space, there's no space because there's no money, etc. I don't think we can go into that circle anymore, but we need to slowly pull out and roll it around. Next thing I know, every one of my predecessors noticed, it appears that there was an increase in crime in 2003 compared to 2002. The minister explained why this illusion exists, but I am not satisfied with the fact that those who gave the report to the minister did not explain this in the report itself. So, in the report itself, what the Director of the Federation Police Department told us on the commission was that this was primarily the result of the application of the new Criminal Law. So there have been times before, there may have been the same number, but the way in which the criminal offences were reported and registered was different. Some minor social danger has not been registered, and now it is an obligation to register regardless of the degree of social danger. So we have to bear in mind that there has really been no enormous increase in crime and crime at all. But what we have is too much. And I think the findings from the reports relating to the Federation, let's say the activation of mine-explosive assets and investigations are there, very difficult and complex. It's like that all over the world. I also believe the Federal Interior Ministry has used all 112 of its intellectual abilities and infrastructure to detect the perpetrators of these crimes. But here we see as soon as August comes, it's repeated again in the circle, and neither have those of last August been discovered, so somehow it's not easy for me to sleep on it. Also, there are no ways to prevent these crimes. It's just the ministry admits it, but it doesn't make it any easier. So we have to do more about it. The fact that I'm particularly concerned is the one pointed out by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which is that prosecutors don't manage to see things like this. Imagine, prosecutor, I really want them to be independent, unbiased to be professional, to do their job, and I understand that this Parliament cannot influence their work but there is a High Court and Prosecutorial Council that should not remain deaf to this finding. I won't accept that someone who has to have and has a high salary and has all the prerogatives to be independent and professional, that on the spot when he's having an insight he doesn't get along and that because of his failure to do so, the undiscovered perpetrators of these crimes remain. Also, it is certainly a clear increase in crimes against property, and I also pointed out on the commission the general fear of civility from thieves who are not at all difficult to make a robbery and that the citizen is lucky not to be in the house when it happens or if he picks up everything in the bag so he doesn't take it or not to beat it up yet, he should be happy not to get beaten when he gets everything out of his house. For me, this high degree of insecurity of citizens is absolutely unacceptable, absolutely. Unfortunately, I can talk about it, and I was the victim of it, such a crime, and when I kept quiet about it, when I only reported it to the police, it still appeared in a newspaper. So it didn't come from me and instead of getting protection from the police and the judicial authorities, you're being ridiculed and the subject of the circus in this country. By the day of today, it's been seven months, I don't have any information about who did it, and people came, and immediately the police came and took fingerprints. So they've got them. I believe that's the way it is in most cases in theft and robbery. About traffic safety, it's a little bit said here. We're all on the road today. What's going on on the road, believe that my going out on the road and getting involved in the traffic is a willingness to commit suicide. Yes, it is. I've got to keep an eye on my tape, who's gonna come this way from the other direction, no matter what the line is, nothing matters. That's not what the police are looking at. I'm sad about some segments of our reformed police who aren't watching who's gonna cross a full line, who's going without a plate, who's going over the speed, but they're going to be waiting on a full line and up the hill when a truck or two of the freighters are going behind them and they're going to drag a column out of a hundred vehicles and punish all these vehicles that run over on a full line, but they're not going to punish the freighter who made that mess. So, even though it's not in the law, I'm asking you to suggest, to fit it into the laws, that we just have to have more security on the road, in every way. Here I think, one justifiable criticism appears, unfortunately not in the report but in my observation, that when you have a police report on the alleged crime. You will see the report earlier on the front page of the newspaper, even in the indictment or in the prime terms of the media, than the one to whom it relates learns about it. I don't think it's professionalism, actually I'm saying it's not professionalism. In addition, such an act constitutes a violation of human rights. If you want and prevent an investigation if it really is, if the deed is not supposed to be, it is real because the one to whom it refers has plenty of time to cope. I don't know how this rap's gonna end. I consider the proposal a measure only by initial step and it has my full support and when it comes to the national term, because indeed, our national in BiH has an entirely different term than in the whole normal world, and I would not like to remain a hostage to this, these problems of ours, but I would like to go to this normal world and look at it as they observe it. And at the very least, whatever jurisdiction there is, the State Department of Security and us as Parliament, I want a stenogram from this debate to be delivered to the entity interior ministries and, if necessary, to the DGS and agencies to which the Brcko District is concerned. 113 And one more thing, pointed out by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which is the conditions for detention. I'm asking your colleagues to do something here. Conditions for detention pursuant to Article 5. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms have been made clear, and when it comes to the danger of a person repeating a crime or completing a crime or a new one, there are no conditions, there are no conditions for what a criminal act is, how difficult it is, for how much punishment is being prevented for it. We both at the level of the state and at the level of the Federation, and I believe that in the law of the RS, we have a condition. The work must be difficult for five years in prison or more, so that you can detain someone who's 99% situno will repeat the crime or finish the crime. So, I'm surprised that this wasn't pointed out by prosecutors, courts, here's just what the police are pointing at. But anyway, we know this today, and I think we must immediately attend the amendment of our criminal legislation, with the aim of bringing it in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and, on the other hand, with the aim of reducing crime, whoever it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14270	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. Before Mr. Beriz Belkić received the word, Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14271	I thank the chairman. I'd like to replicate just one attitude. I'm sorry, I can't take much longer. My throat hurts. I seem to have lost a good voice. So I'm going to rephrase to one attitude that's here I don't think is this one, correct. In fact, if it's a condition for us to enter Europe to write the word "national" and not "other", I'm going to support it now. But it's not a condition for us to enter Europe. So we won't get close to Europe with that. Please, the notion of national means the concept of state. There, and in those systems where the nation is the same state. Since here, in our country, the nation is the same state, then the notion of national cannot, the notion of state cannot be replaced by the notion of national. It's not Mr. Minister here that the notion of national use instead of the concept is unique, but instead of the concept of state, but I am for it to be unique and I support it if it's unique. And please, what I said doesn't have much to do with my will whether I'm going to Europe or not. It doesn't have much to do with my will whether I'm in favour of reforming the MUP or not, whether I'm in favour of catching those who are breaking and who are this, breaking the law and breaking it or not, but it has a lot to do with the reality that we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14272	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14273	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH Club appreciates that it is very important that we are discussing one document today, and we really think that this is the place to discuss this and that it is much more efficient and rational to discuss this through a review of the report than to respond to individual cases that have so far been a kind of practice. Dake, we are prepared to support this report, i.e. to understand how we already agree here, but we also want to highlight certain objections to say so, on the very report. First of all 114, we will agree that he is not current, that he is quite late, but points to some phenomena etc. Unfortunately for us, he is somewhat due to his analytical approach and description of certain crimes, etc. Unfortunately, the debate has also received that kind of tone, it is beginning to resemble a report of municipal soups. I understand that he was joined by reports of entity flies and Brcko District and that these were reunited by municipal authorities of internal affairs and cantonal and so forth. But the state report, or the State Department, should be something different. I'll tell you what we think about it. The proposed measures we can support, however, we must also conclude that they are quite abstract, that they are quite unoperative and we are inclined to support this, which Nikola Špirić was saying, that this Parliament is asking the competent authorities, therefore the word of the competent authorities of those, so we are not taking away the right of anyone or adding that based on the assessment of this Parliament which considers the situation not satisfactory, that trends and phenomena warn that we are requesting urgent operational measures and that they report to the Ministry of Security what they think they are doing, including what is happening at the moment. We will eventually, with this finding, receive knowledge, support, etc. We point out and suggest that future reports should deal with phenomena, trends, BiH's position in the region, and therefore BiH's competence and ability as a community to resist these phenomena. Therefore, to be dispersed by the description of individual crimes etc. but simply to register the phenomena, trends and action of the community of this kind, things. Furthermore, we think that these reports must be more up-to-date, not to say more often, so semi-annually or annually, immediately after the end of the year, that we will sometimes get special reports of some occurrences that happen that only the Ministry of Security reacts and assesses that it is good to report to the BiH Parliament about some events, that there is no need to wait for a request from here or a parliamentary question. We welcome, or call on the Presidency to finally bring in that one document, I believe that you forgot the conclusion we had, Security Policy, so for over a year we've been waiting for it. In two, three times we intervened, I can only say publicly that this is a general insolence towards this Parliament by an institution which is responsible to bring such a document or to offer to this authority and this document has to do with this, of course, it is much broader but has something to do with what we are talking about. And finally, when it comes to the report, I think the time is finally coming when we can no longer speak, we are in formation, we are instituting, we do not establish, we have, we do not have, when we have to open up the question and capacity and competence of the institutions that are establishing and the responsibilities of the Council of Ministers, the leaders of these institutions, the directors of these institutions. So they no longer have the space or mandate to speak in the phase we establish etc., they simply have to do their job and prove the justification of the costs that are set out in their direction. And in the end, I don't have a custom, etc. Mr. Novaković, lately this, any law and any document has been discussed also on the red cross, the word national, etc. I totally understand how you're experiencing it, etc. But I assure you it's not an infectious disease, no one will get sick from this word if we use a national economy. It's the community's economy. It doesn't dispute the right for people to experience it one way or another, but I mean it's not dangerous and it's not the thing that deserves us to create some particular problem believe it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14274	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić. Was it a replica? No, you are not registered, Mr. Gligorić, all in order, this Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Đedović, has the order. Let's respect the technique to make it easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14275	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it's a good thing this material is in front of us today, which we left behind, someone shut down, which we've left enough time for us to in peace and cold heads to analyze this information that's ahead of us. For this reason, I appreciate the ministry's difficulties and simply setting up a new methodology of work within the ministry, but objectively for Parliament and other users of these materials, I would not need information, but rather an analysis of the security sector or security policy in BiH. This analysis would mean that this data that is dry data, we are equally systematic and then we simply do a little static work and we see simple trends where BiH is going. I think that would be good, and in that context, the place of information is always looking for analysis, not information. Information is something else entirely. We can receive information or not receive the latest information. This isn't material, objectively... for the BiH Parliament. That's one. Two, the material is as you can see, if you look more closely at the simple collection of methodologically different reports of the Federation of BiH, RS and Brcko District. And count the pages, the Federation of BiH wrote 14 pages, RS on 5, and Brcko District on the rest, which means it was not a unique methodology for making reports to be given to the ministry. So, Mr. Minister, it would be good if you gave them a project assignment. In this report we want, methodologically on so many pages and each other and the Federation and the RS and the Brcko District and in this context we get what you want from them, simply to give you. That's below two. Under three, the basic problem I think the ministry has put very shyly and I think it is a fundamental problem for BiH. And that's what we're building a criminal justice structure, we're passing laws, we're forming institutions, agencies, etc. But it still doesn't work like a system. From the system in BiH against organised crime, the fight against terrorism and everything else, we have absolutely not, systemically defined, a simple relationship between the BiH authorities and these phenomena, which means that I apologize for the phenomenon that we simply adopted in the behaviour and simple functioning of the BiH state. So we don't have a system built, we just fight against organized crime in particular. And in that context, I think it is high time to do something about it and do it, because public change has a negative attitude towards the security situation of BiH. So the ordinary man is unhappy with the security situation in BiH. Whether you want to admit it or not, he is dissatisfied and feels that part of it is simply a fundamental right to life is partly threatened, etc. Which means we have to deal with it and simply see how we get out of that situation. I'm giving recognition to the ministry that really gave one assessment, which is that it's very shyly noted here, co-operation with administrations dealing with organised crime at the federal level, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, the Financial Police, the FOS, etc., and has not been coordinated. Co-ordination of the work of law enforcement agencies has also not reached the expected level. And this is a fundamental problem. The institutions can't be themselves enough, without one meaningful, coordinated, systematic action of all these institutions, there's no way we're just moving out of this situation. We have DGS, we have SIP, we have OSU, we have a simple Ministry of Security, we have a Council of Ministers, we have a prosecution, we have a court, they're institutions at the level of the BiH state. Right? Who's coordinating with that? Is there any form of coordination? Any talk for three months, see where we are, what we are? This is not imposing any opinion or interference in the prosecution or court, but simply a simple state struggle for a simple better security situation within the BiH state, which means it is necessary to establish a single coordination system. That's why I'm proposing, uh, I'm making one conclusion here at the House, which is to ask the Council of Ministers to bring an operational plan for the coordination of entities at the level of the state of BiH. The DGS, the State Border Service, the SIP, the OSA, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH's withdrawal in order to fight organised crime more effectively. The established coordination system should be normally covered, as they depend on the entity institutions and institutions of the Brcko District, such as the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, the MUPs, etc. In this regard, it is necessary to inform, at least every six months, the 116th Parliament Assembly, respectively, about the results achieved. I think it would be a minimum that we can simply ask the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, that we have timely information and that we can analyse the security criminal justice structure simply etc. all elements of the fight against all of human trafficking, the grey economy to organised crime, which means that it is a minimum of what would be necessary and necessary to adopt. With the possibility that it might be good for different proposals, conclusions, etc., the commission may once again look at the next session of the House suggest a full simple list, i.e. a simple document on the conclusions on this material called the Security Status Information in BiH. Mr. Minister won't be angry, but objectively in the proposal of measures, how come not, there may be some controversy, I beg you, this country is tired more than strategy, tired. We have the Anti-corruption Strategy, we have the Strategy against Poverty, we have the Strategy for Economic Social Development of BiH, Mr. Minister, no strategies, I ask you the Council of Ministers is an operational executive body of government in BiH. I mean, it's really high time from the strategy to just get to work, work for real. Which means, I am sure, you wrote this quite nicely, this information system at the level of the state overneeded, necessary, I don't need strategies, give the project immediately, a simple full information system in the context of the situation of BiH, which will connect both entities and institutions dealing with this problem. That means, it's not controversial, it really needs to be welcomed, but I'm asking you, we don't have time for strategies anymore, let's really useable documents, projects that will be a relevant response to this situation that is in BiH today. And in this context, the measures that give me a mosaic, a simple direction and simple steps that should be taken should be a little bit reconstructed, but objectively should not create a national strategy, as says counterpart Novaković, it is a state strategy and there are no dilemmas there, there is no need for that, and the controversy is quite repudiated and not controversial. Which means here, I would suggest this conclusion and the possibility to discuss, that the commission, our commission, simply unite these conclusions, the proposals, the joint proposal for measures of the ministry, and that one complete document of simple conclusions, guidelines and suggestions by the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, so that it would be good to unite with the House of Peoples and have a complete document of whether, simply which would be sufficient for the Council of Ministers to consider and to take certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14276	Thank you very much to Mr. Avdić, Mr. Jozo Križanović has the word, so let Mr. Miloš Jovanović be prepared, and then Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14277	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, for allowing me to express first and foremost the satisfaction that we can discuss information on the state of security in BiH at today's session. However, I would start with the purpose of this debate in this House, in my opinion, it is primarily to look at the real state of security in BiH, to see the causes of this situation and the ability of BiH institutions to prevent the causes of security violations, the detection of perpetrators, their processing, or at the shortest possible, to tell the organisation of our entire society that it creates a safe and favourable environment for a peaceful prosperous life. Therefore, information that should be said by counterpart Avdić, a certain analysis and synthesis of a series of causes and reasons, and which should provide certain assessments on the basis of which measures would be taken to prevent, disrupt the security situation in BiH. 117 It should also point out and initiate what it is to do and improve in the executive power in the judicial wave and in the legislative wave, in order to achieve this. Now the question is, do we have a document in front of us that could achieve these goals? First of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the inaccuracy of this document, because we are discussing the state of security in BiH in the past year. So after the last seven months of this year. I'm not going to go into how it came to be after five months than it was discussed on this information at the Council of Ministers, it's being debated in this House today. So we do not have and we must be aware that we are not discussing in the current security situation in BiH, it is a major flaw and I think it is unacceptable to have this kind of inaccuracy. It is incomplete from the point of view of data, from the point of view of how to solve the problem of co-ordination of all entities that make up this segment of security, the lack of coverage of a large part of the security entities in BiH, and I simply think it is impossible for one ministry, our Ministry of Security, to take over the task, to do a serious analysis of a complex problem like this. At the state of security, the whole of our really in BiH is pictured and cannot be passed without these institutions that Mr. Minister has listed but I especially want to add reports that would talk about the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the courts. We don't benefit much if we say that we don't know, or find the perpetrator of the crime, and that's going into percentages of 60, and I don't know how much percent and processed 5% or 6% of that, and we don't know what the outcome of that was. This also tells us or lacks information about the quality of work. I don't want to comment on the information, but I'm expressing my dissatisfaction that we are very slow and late in the application of our laws. We have laws but we have no institutions and we have no real reform in practice. Two years after the SIP Act we do not yet have a SIP in full function, has not revived the Direct Taxation Administration, the OSA is at the beginning, we have information that our Ministry of Security has also not been trained, etc. This puts us in a position that we simply do not manage this security situation in BiH, but simply cough for events. We can't predict them, we can't warn them, and we're always in the mood to say once we're behind them. The question arises as to what this House might conclude on the remarks that we have the staff and material imbalances of certain institutions, that we have the impediment of people in serious institutions due to low wages, unequal salaries, etc. So he can only conclude what he's saying, this is where the institution's budget is adopted, and give the gentlemen what they need to know. The only conclusion is to improve this condition. And we will surely be able to create from here so that we can improve it. I mean, it's up to the Council of Ministers to seek out what it is that this Parliament needs to be approved so that it can be organised and trained to act more effectively. In order not to go any further, I want what may not be a custom, to express my dissatisfaction with the report of our commission, which has been considering this information previously. I expected that this commission would give certain conclusions that could possibly be the conclusions of this House, in line with whether these discussions with dilemmas, with the problems that this information presents. However, none of this is available and therefore I will join those colleagues who went in the sense that it is difficult to accept or reject this information today. But I would like to simply talk about this one more time, once this information is updated, as much as possible from this year, and take into account the prosecution and the court's data and when respecting this debate and the new data our commission still does one job that would facilitate the work of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14278	I thank Mr. Križanović. Before I give my word to Mr Jovanović, I will remind you that the House of Representatives therefore, holding an extraordinary session on the subject of security, last year, has opened up a space on the basis of the House's conclusions for the final systematic resolution of these issues at BiH level and that the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Security has entered into the realization of those conclusions that we have adopted and that this report should be considered in this context. So, one process of building a system of institutions and one logic of functioning that can ensure security in BiH. And not to go back but to make a contribution in this process. I expect that the debate and that today's conclusions will be formulated in this respect because if we know that a year ago we didn't have either the Ministry or any other institution, then we need to start from the fact that many things are now in the realisation phase, perhaps not in a loving way. At an unsatisfactory pace or quality, but that is also our responsibility to warn about it, we give a framework of conclusions that will be able to improve this situation. I apologize for this intervention, but I think I should say this. Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14279	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14280	Replication to Mr. Huskić Adem
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14281	Like this, uh, I'm a member of the commission and only two colleagues spoke from the commission. I think the commission did and concluded something more than it was written here. I'm not going to talk about the report, I don't think it's right, I should let other MPs go, I've had a chance to talk about it on the commission, but I think the commission has concluded and I'm surprised that this is not written here, to make a report in the first six months of this year, which would cover the situation from the BiH aspect, and that report should include whether, in the SIP's, OSCE etc. And I think the House of Nations has made a similar conclusion, so that's what's supposed to be here. Why isn't he standing, I don't know. Thank you very much. But now I suggest that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14282	I thank Mr. Huskić, the word is Mr. Mološ Jovanović. For now, I will tell you who are all registered for the debate, so that you can concentrate, Mr. Jovanović, Mr. Đedović, Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Zorić, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, Mr. Kragulj. It's the registration order. Please forgive Mr. Kunić, please, if you have anything to say, answer the word, you will be enabled. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14283	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since there are a lot of reports, I'll be right back. And I'd like to ask you to put in a little order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14284	Mr. Huskić, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14285	This one to be heard, the one who doesn't want to listen means
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14286	Accepted by Mr. Jovanović, may I have your attention? Mr. Avdić, I'd like representatives of law and respect for my colleagues. We'll give the apartment after we finish this 41st session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14287	In order for me to vote for this information and for it to be complete, I think there are a few things missing that certainly have a major impact on security in BiH. Number one, I'd say that SFOR's role has not been processed. Perhaps for someone to improve and for someone to worsen the security situation in BiH. Has SFOR come out of office in its special activities, that people are beaten, people being arrested, people being taken away, people being locked up, whether it's in the SFOR mandate and whether in this case and cases like this are functioning by BiH institutions, and whether it means now someone to be arrested, whether the procedure to send him a call is respected, so if he doesn't log in, then to find a way to bring him in and how to arrest him. Another thing, which also seems important to me, which is the role of the international community, i.e. the OHR or rather the High Representative, in the deterioration or improvement of the security situation in BiH. Whether replacing 59 or 60 people, whether it improves or worsens the situation in BiH and whether human rights are being violated. I repeat, maybe it's for someone good, it's not for someone, but I think it's missing and that we should also process it. The third thing, which I think is missing, is whether particularly incendiary statements of individuals have been expressed lately, I am here primarily speaking to individuals from the Federation of BiH about the change of the Constitution and the eventual abolition of RS, does that, too, worsen or improve the situation in BiH? Whether on the one hand, when the issue is raised, the RS on the other side immediately raises the issue of BiH's referendum. So are these things means that affect the deterioration or I say, I repeat the improvement of the situation in BiH? I think Mr. Secretary should have worked it out, too, so this information would be complete. And something else, in a proposal for these measures, one of these points says, signing an agreement with Serbia-Montenegro on the admission of illegal immigrants to return to the country of origin. I accept this, if it means there are only immigrants from Serbia-Montenegro in BiH, but I think there are other countries, so this should change. So if they're only from Serbia-Montenegro, then this one, I accept this kind of measure. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14288	I thank Mr. Jovanović. The word is Mr Ibrahim Đedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14289	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I will also try to be brief. I want to welcome the fact that we have this information ahead of us and the efforts that have been made to get there, as the first act. Everything we've heard and what I'm going to try to make as my humble contribution, should be considered by my conviction as a wish for the next one to be better, in order to take this step forward. 120 I personally believe that a few moments or a few areas, there are no areas that should be in this report. First, we have a series of consequences, or if we run a report analysis, it's mostly consequences. The consequences of the country. What are the causes and motives, bearers, and what does the system of states think to do to reduce the consequences in the next period by its systemic and say measures? In my opinion, this area is praised and the next report would have to contain these elements. The other thing that matters is if we follow the press, we listen to daily calls, and BiH's information is valid as a criminal society. So how much crime is involved outside of the institutions of the system, how much in the institutions and what is the relationship between one and the other and what have the competent institutions done to slowly say, separate or say there or no. I think that's the element to be accounted for in the next period. And the third thing, I'd like to conclude is a special traffic problem, something a fellow respected Palavrić said, the number of people killed in BiH traffic. I was looking at a statistic the other day, and we're going ahead in Europe. So people's lives are lost every day. I can't believe there's no word in this report. I can't believe we don't know how many people it is and what the system institutions are doing to reduce that number, to see what the causes are, what to do to move forward. And the special segment in what you should be counting on is what happens when a car crash happens. I used to say that one time, because I was a part of it. Seven phones should be turned around to get someone to help. There are minutes, hours run, and we know that that's when seconds and minutes decide on human life. It has nothing to do with politics, the nation, or anything, to do with saving that man and how to organize ourselves so that we can do it as soon as possible. Here, I think these are some questions that should take account of in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14290	Thank you very much, Mr. Đedović. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14291	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything about the report, if it has to do with information, if it has to do with the Information on Security in BiH, I would like to congratulate all of you dear colleagues and colleagues on July 27th, the Day of the Uprising of the People and Peoples of BiH. It wasn't then, I know someone will be happy and someone won't, but I know the professor will be happy. There was no trafficking in white slaves, no intoxicating drugs you're talking about, no organized crime. You could travel to the sea, sleep on the beach, no one would touch you, really for a good time. As for the very information on BiH's security, I think the chairman said so, given that we asked for it. We have received information and I support the meaning of the information that has come, which has included a lot of things, and of course this debate should possibly add something that might certainly be useful. She's on the 46th page, I think 12 of these points which, by proposing measures and by the way, I would ask two or three questions. Does this information, because I didn't see that it was contained, if we're already recording it, mean all these negative phenomena, at all these levels, whether it was abuse, whether it meant listening without the difference that people were concerned about, and whether it was in accordance with the law and whether it should possibly be complemented in the following information 121, because there was a lot of talk in the public? Perhaps there has been speculation about this and the interrelationship, I think there should be one official information that would address that question. Then, I didn't notice in this information, and I think it would be useful in future information that it contains, when we talk about organized crime or abuse of authority of persons who are members, let's say the police, are they recorded and how many such persons have their own code, so the police have violated and placed themselves in the service of crime? The public also says that there are many such faces, but it would be good to also say that it has been recorded. Whether it's a controversial case or if it's a phenomenon, then of course it's disturbing within the police force. With that in mind right now, I would ask a question, and it would be just as good, people who are inside the police department, say, suspended, have these persons been protected after an investigation, were they protected within the police force, were those persons actually in the field of detection actually in the fight against organised crime, and therefore had problems and were they suspended or not in the police anymore, and were they actually doing their good work? I think if we want to make some progress in the police force, then we have to protect people who do their job well, if that's what it means. You predicted at point 9, that we should work on forming a working group, a proposal, so here's the problem word of the national as we interpret it, but here you said action plans and strategies. I think we should say the strategy first, so the plan because by the system of importance, we know what's more important and whoever writes it should say, strategy, plan, etc. to the operational tasks that should be done. When you talk about this strategy, I have an opinion that you may not agree with because Professor Avdić spoke well about in terms of the strategy, as it is publicly accepted. If we are already engaged in such a thing, then we need to know what restrictions there are in making any strategy, especially when the issue of fighting organised crime, because we objectively rest on certain divisions and the authority that does so, it has its own political philosophy. This political philosophy in terms of the natural division that... objectively exists in BiH, of those who, for example, exercise power, can also deepen these divisions or deepen divisions in terms that you can't change the situation because you don't want to change, you don't want equipment, you don't want to do it effectively, you don't want a capable, professional service because in this case someone can come under attack because over these years a special group has been created that even this one, participates in the economy and legal and illegal. There is an objective problem, there is something he tried to say and I think he said well and clearly, and Mr. Đedović, and at the same time or in terms of cover-up, if all of this is being carried out in that strategy, then it makes no sense and that political philosophy based on its own control on divisions, cover-ups can't bear fruit, and that only one will be in a series of documents and that we will not objectively change the situation. You're all around here, at least the ones who said, said we didn't, we have institutions, we don't have a system, etc. The key question is, who should finally take responsibility, why we don't have a system, we don't have a legal state and objectively not to say I'm from the opposition, so I'm saying it for these and those reasons, because I'm criticising always the national party, but objectively, someone if they're exercising power and if something in some area of social life doesn't work, then someone has to take responsibility for how they think it changes in society or if they don't want to change it, then they're an accomplice to a bad situation in society or let them say, I don't have the capacity and get away from people, so who has the capacity to do it. Or let's be honest that expert teams propose but inside means then reform you have to get rid of some people who have to leave the police who are now in the police and objectively that they are brakes. And that's why I'm joining the proposal of Mr. Špirić's conclusion, who said, I think it would be good, to accept it to be a recommendation from the House of Representatives, at all levels that he's doing, who's dealing with this investigational work, that in that 122 cases they sanction exactly the responsible people if there's an increase in certain crime in some let's say military, responsibilities zones that they have either a municipality or a canton or an entity. I think we should accept that in order to be correct and that I hope Professor Špirić would give it in writing and that, of course, should be voted on. So that question about the national word we spoke depends on how we observe it. If I want to be malice, I can make a problem. If I'm going to be well-intentioned, I can say, that's what other countries do, it's not a problem for BiH. But it is our problem, because of the national issue, we entered the war practically. Therefore, it has always been a problem in BiH. And that's why it should only be respected what the Constitution defined, and in this way solve the question in society how it solved the Constitution, because I would like people who advocate it and say that they are pro-European, as well as they think, I agree, but they would remember your discussions when you're in charge of something in BiH and when you divide it by statistically by threes, by two-thirds, by everything we're slowly changing in BiH, then I think we should also take care of it. Therefore, I believe that with these conclusions that were going on in the meantime, I would like to add this report, too, that this contribution that I have tried to make, in the sense that something should be installed should also be taken with due attention. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14292	I thank Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. The word is Mr. Bešlagić. Let Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14293	Dear colleagues, I don't intend to analyze what the predecessors said, except to express my satisfaction that this House is discussing this material, and if we don't think we need it, then we don't belong in this House. My personal sighting and that is why I thank you for this item of the agenda coming to this House. But I'll just see something. In the entire report, which is a factual analysis in 2003, there's no such thing as what we're saying, the state of security, so I'm going to give you an example. The man who was in charge of a relationship with interpol is in prison. Does it affect security at all, does it affect these things at all, but let's leave it right here in front of this discussion is said to have this ministry. However, here what is missing in this report, a chapter that is very important to us, a juvenile delinquency. It's not about that she's probably into drugs, there, but she deserves special attention for one particular reason that seems important to me, which is that juvenile delinquency is now on the rise, under one. Two, there's no room for juvenile delinquents based on court decisions. They can't be in jail with me saying adult people, and it's a problem that we objectively impose as a problem that grows up that tomorrow when it's over, it means by age he's turning into a minor and we have a quality I'd say now let's say offender. That's why I'm smoking this one proposal. Since we know that the reconstruction of the military and the Federation and the RS and the BiH Army, that the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence sees the possibility in entities, the separation of the special space that would be given to the institutions for the accommodation of minor delinquents because today it is one of the most pressing problems at least with what we are facing. I mean, if here's my proposal is to get in touch with 123 and try to get over this because without this, believe me, we're just recruiting new problems that become quality after the age is over, I'd say delinquents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14294	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word has Mr. Zorić, let Mr. Ivo Miro Jović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14295	I also welcome all those present and want to say a few words about this document. It is good that we have this document, but I agree with most predecessors that it is not a good way to write it. So this is what the Union would say to Professor Lagumdžija, Union of three entities or Trinity reports. I have to mention that Dr. Lagumdžija said that, because I can have sanctions when I say so, and when he says there are no sanctions that Brcko District is ent...da, yes, and I'm thinking of Brcko District, so there are no other entities, other than Hrvat, Bošnjak and Brcko Districts, no one has an entity in BiH anymore. Srbin, pardon Bošnjak and Brcko District. Okay, the first thing I want to say here is that information or report is not in Croatian, I would like my colleague Novaković to lend me material that is in Croatian, to make it easier for me to read. It's used in no language. It's not safe in Serbian either, because it has this word from Croatian to extremelyspring words, and it doesn't matter, it's important to have
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14296	You said yourself, Mr. Zorić, it's a union, so that's why it's small.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14297	That's right, I'm not happy to write information for us like that, but on the other hand, I was going to say it a little later when I get close to the end. If we were to move into these cemented states, then we would raise the voice of most of our parliamentarians or most of the other parliamentarians here, so I won't tell you what I would say about it, to transfer powers to BiH, to get, to have the minister of security tell the police, to tell the services and the others to give me information, not to beg of these. He's asked for an invartation, probably got what he was, and he prescribed it. There's nothing else. There's nothing left. We had a debate last year about an individual case here, and it didn't happen to take preventive action, but in the same municipality that made us have a special session, an extraordinary session, it still happens so let's say strange murders, disappearances, etc. and most of all over one nation and the returnees. So it's not good, it's not good not to take any action, because why aren't you taking it and why am I saying it? So because 7.8% is more crimes and yet from these three entities they say the situation is satisfactory, because they judge themselves. They judge themselves and say, the situation is satisfactory, so when it happens again it's 10% more they'll say again. So how much should be increased, because you see, if last year it increased 10%, so this year 10%, it's already 21% compared to the clan. To what extent and extent it is allowed to increase to remain satisfactory, or what is the limit to being an unsatisfactory state of security. I don't think that's good. Or, let's say against 13,762 people were raised here, a criminal report, of which is 4.265 returnees or 31%. Returnees in a felony. Rape, 30% returnee. Every politician, who is suspicious, will appear in the paper whether or not he has been charged with it, will come out several times in the papers, and if it is accidental, if the indictment is filed, then it is said, in a week, the trial of Mark Marko Marković begins, then tomorrow, in six days, the trial starts with that too. Why don't those people who rape don't get published in the papers, that the environments know. It's usually NN, etc. That the environment knows so that when that man enters the cage, the boss tells him to come out, there won't be people coming out here. 124 Then there are such data from fellow Đedović to me and Gligorić are Bešlagić who mentioned everything there is not in the report. Let's just say there's such information in the report that doesn't matter to me, even let's just say the words are ugly for those who file them. Says there were estranged vehicles, so 79 found themselves. Which means they're not alienated at all. She was estranged, so I found this one. How will he find his own estranged vehicle? E has 155 ransoms, but 79 were found alone, it's not the same. That's two different categories. And I think that, uh, the police, and the security teams, they might say, uh, something more about these purchases. I also think that when the Federal MUP makes the information as it did, more attention should be paid to county information, and even comparisons, let's see what parts of the Federation we're in, if we're BiH and it's divided into three parts, then let's see in the Federation, where it's a little bit more security, where we're a little less. Then I hear, I have this information, that some MUPs have extra employees, some exactly, some are missing, but they are not allowed to hire new employees, and some who have extras to continue to get consent, that may be the part Mr Jovanović was talking about, there is agreement that they can still get a job. So, uh, I know what the situation is in that and I've been the mayor myself for a while in one county, so for this or that minister has to get consent or no appointments, but this, maybe it would be good if we got that information too. Besides, my colleague, these aren't replicas, but I remember not even here, I didn't even notice who was saying that, but my colleague Sead was talking about thieves. There are thieves of professionals who do it, and surely when professionals do it, it's good that maybe the person isn't in the house, as Sead mentioned, but there are beggar thieves. And I've been trying in the area where I live to point to this one, the police. They simply have some kind of confirmation, they come, they're usually either deaf or they don't see it, and then they show a certificate, but if he's just a kid at home, then they hear and see very well. And then they do the job. And it usually happens in here in the area where I live, during mass. And I think there's a big, big attention to that, so also the sellers of cheap stuff. They're murderers. Because if he stole it there, he sells it to me cheaply and watches what he steals here. He shoots the terrain, so at every traffic light on our roads if we have any reconstructed roads we have beggars. They're beggars, but those who walk from home, the beggar sits in front of the church and begs, but those who walk from house to house, I think they're potential thieves, and mostly thieves and they film this, film houses. I've already said about what I think about satisfactory, but I'm going to say just one more piece of information that I've read here, and for example, people deported to BiH, and then one piece of information that's written as it says, in the reporting period from BiH, 111 foreign citizens have been deported, out of which, due to the illegal crossing of border 98, due to illegal stay in BiH 12 and 1 persons for other reasons. Imagine, for this one cannot be specified for which reason and for these 110 can be specified for what reason. I mean, I accidentally read this material a little bit more carefully, and then I come up with these, and there are as many of them as you want these little things to be seen. I think here I am, I know myself here and let it remain as a question, that's why I'm interested. That's the one. And finally, at the very end, I'm going to mention this to the national. I just asked my colleagues, Gligorić, if it was a national uprising, because it was the uprising of people and peoples. I'll read the proposal for measures here. I don't know what point 2.4.6.8 is to work on building national security systems information. I think here's the word of a national word that shares. I think it's a sentence to work on building information security systems in BiH that's more appropriate, because if we're doing this one, building national information security systems, then we could say three. Construction of three national security etc. And in every sentence, it's better that there's no national. Therefore, the information society also writes below as well as the creation of security bases, not national security databases, etc. So we don't have to guess what that means. Context can be very bad if it writes national and it doesn't write, but when it doesn't write anything. Or work on forming working groups that will finally make proposals for national action plans. Why can't it be to give proposals for action plans or strategies, or below, to work on developing a national strategy for 125 fighting illegal trafficking and drug abuse. It's quite a nice sentence and enough to work on developing a strategy to fight illegal trafficking and drug abuse. Well, it's known to God that it's thought of BiH. There is no reason, and this colleague, Novaković, and another 5-6 MPs, and I wouldn't be at all, would not be wasting time if it were more precisely written in this information. I thank you for your attention and so much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14298	I thank Mr. Zorić. The next gentleman is Ivo Miro Jović. We still have two reported, Mr. Nikola Kragulj and Mr. Petar Kunić. No more reports, if anyone wants any more, I'll close this one, log in, and then we'll agree on a conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidents, distinguished ministers and representatives of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will also be very brief and probably take a look at this report on the other hand. I am if you want a private surprise that we have a report at all. In the previous meetings of this Parliament, there was no debate on this subject, and we received 50 pages of material. I'm glad that no one has found a single line of false, misrepresented, poorly explained, can be termological and linguistic but I think the approach to the methodology has been kind of criticized here by gentlemen. The lack certainly has this information as would any other institution and the institutions of this country come. But I, I want to point out that since we didn't have this ministry, we now thank Bog we have it, so if two months ago and this information is sent here right now it's going to halve this time distance that we had between our debate in March and now, because we all see that it was dated early in the sixth month of sending it to Parliament. It's a good thing we know we're really busy with the materials that come here. I'm not defending anyone, I'm not attacking anyone, but I want to be honest with you, I love hearing those who carry a lot of guilt that this is a state of security like this, and it's a medium. And today we have given enough material, new bad information to the public about the work of our institutions and the security future of these people. And I'm the one who wants to do this short-sighted thing, not on the media, putting on a huge responsibility, but that they have responsibilities and what kind of responsibilities, I can't get rid of. And we seem to have contributed today that it may be misinterpreted material that we have received. There are such beautifully described areas, causes, consequences, criminal measures and identified perpetrators. However, I have a grudge, too, and they primarily refer to the proposal for measures. And this bill of measures can't be good at all, which would get results or at least that's how I see it. He's soft, he's too focused on some topics, and he's pointing at them and he's showing huge security gaps and he doesn't mention it. And I think that this proposal should be strengthened, strengthened as I see a number of distinguished colleagues doing so by offering a proposal of conclusions that would strengthen and strengthen these measures ahead of us. A great shortfall, is what seems little to me if I will use it, and it has the right to false allegations, thank Bog that it is so in our Rules of Procedure about Work, the Honorable Representative Zorić, nowhere a word of responsibility, anywhere for anyone. And that surprises me. Not according to the individual, not according to the institution, according to the institution, nor calls for greater engagement, even if it is declarative, even if it is this one, a procedure which would not receive any special results, but affirms further work. And that's why I'm surprised there's no call for a bigger engagement anywhere. Greater activity, both individuals and institutions, institutions. I can't help but mention, if more than 30 Hrvat return to the Federation were killed in this 2-3 years ago, and if I don't know so many raped returns, mainly in Lukavac, Konjic, 126 Bugojno and er, Travnik and so on. I'm sorry there must be on other sides, but the media-processed gentlemen, they've been processed. This is what I'm saying, and I'm sorry for the fact that I don't have that kind of treatment in this country. And that's why I'm saying it's a problem that he could at least find places here. I cannot accept the fact that the minister, or the chief of internal affairs or the head of the municipality, in the municipality of which a dozen people are killed, does not resign. At least that, a moral act. It's still an open city where no one comes back. What's open for him? The gate, the street, the road? I can't accept that, and there's not enough treatment here. Maybe I should finish, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14300	And what you were saying, the conclusions are just... Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. The word has a gentleman, he still has Mr. Petar Kunić and no more applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14301	Yeah, well, I've just joked about some things, it's a really important topic, which may have come at a bad time, with this many agendas, and I think that in this respect we need to look for some rationality in this respect, and especially when we agree on the agenda, put more important points on the agenda first, and those later on, while the energy is fresher. It is understandable that security represents in one country a complex structure of institutions and relations. Of course it can't be viewed from one aspect but with a lot of aspects. When it comes to security in BiH in particular, then it certainly needs to come from one fact, which is the fact of BiH's political arrangement and of course should be respected if we respect the rule of law. And that is the basic framework within which both this Parliament and everyone else must move. Of course, this is a key issue in BiH, the functioning of the rule of law, how much we are and security forces are basic, basic levers because they directly apply the law, provide individuals, or people, provide their property, protect human rights. So they care about the fundamental rights of man. At what stage are we creating a rule of law, it's very difficult to say, but I personally think we're still far away. In that sense, I would be critical of this report even though there was a lot of effort here to write a large report, to record a state, etc. But on that basis, it's also conjectured on the recording of the situation. In my opinion, it was necessary to pay far more attention to the entities that should ensure the safety of the environment. So, these subjects. What problems are related to the subjects, that they must admit they are not doing their job in the right sense required by the rule of law. A little report is politicized, which I must also conclude, and finally say that it's a little bit of bureaucratic technology. What are the essential questions for me, which should be put at the heart of Parliament's attention when it comes to Parliament's question, because Parliament is implementing politics. To look at the aspect of the number of police forces, the training of police forces, their professionalism, impartiality in work, and especially the depolitisation of political forces. I am telling you that in BiH as a whole, there is a rule of politics over the profession and this sphere of relations should be the other way around. So as long as we have political personnel, so personnel who don't have a proper profession, we'll have a situation like this. The other problem imposed in BiH is corruption and organised crime. I think the report said quite a bit, but it should have said some indicators of how, which are the instruments that it comes down to creating trends that it comes down to some normal frameworks like in all European countries. It's supposed to create a mental climate for that. Without the social climate, we won't have a better situation. What does that mean? A regular cop needs to be given his status. With a salary like this, with a salary like this, we'll have no security, no property, no individual. No police officer with 300-400 or 500 stakes to be his head, in order to do something there on the ground to prevent some 127 misdeeds. Therefore, these are serious things and it is a good finding in the report that is being said about equating the salaries of police security structures at the level of the entire BiH. I think that's a positive fact. And in that sense, therefore, not only should we limit ourselves to security structures, but there have been speeches and I don't want to repeat it, and other structures are absolutely important here. The issue of the prosecution's work, the judiciary as a whole, etc. I also think there should be a climate for one legitimate and normal work but that the parties there have no influence. I don't think they have much in courts, but they're still dominant when it comes to these police, various types of police structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14302	I thank Mr. Kunić. There are no more applications for discussion. I am concluding the debate and I can therefore say that it is bad to judge myself, what Mr Zorić said, but I think that the debate at the House today was really justified, content and that the conclusions and suggestions of the conclusions that we have here in writing, and we have more, indeed, contributed to this report, this information being done more realistically, to identify the areas and institutions that need to take responsibility for the security situation in BiH and I think that, on the basis of the fact that we opened the first extraordinary session on this state of security in BiH regarding a particular case, we still have progress in BiH in building institutions and their actions. Of course I think that the House of Representatives today could bring one assessment, I think that Mr. Sead Avdić gave it, that a high degree of insecurity of citizens, absolutely this one, cannot be further tolerated and that systemic and rooted measures are necessary in this regard. We should today define how the House of Representatives should end this session and these conclusions. I will tell you here that we have received in writing the conclusions and suggestions from Mr Huskić, Mr Špirić, Mr Ivo Mire Jović, Mr Novaković, Mr Avdić, Mrs Palavrić and Mr Jovanović. And I personally think that the stenogram from the debate and all these conclusions we need to deliver to the Council of Ministers but I think we also have our own working body, we have a commission to translate these conclusions into Dom's views as binding to the Council of Ministers, and that's my suggestion. So, can we get around this approach, Nikola, you'll get word, there's also a request for us to come to terms with certain conclusions today. I have nothing against it either, but I insist that these conclusions and a stenogram of debate are found at another session of the commission, because such a debate has been and deserves each one of these conclusions, deserves this, deserves to be further determined by the competent commission of this House. And here's Mr. Špirić insists on a proposal for a conclusion that today, that today, we determine ourselves about him individually. I don't mind that, and here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14303	Mr. Chairman, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have no objection that the conclusions go back to the commission, which require a more active relationship between the commission and parliament, which require consideration of the structure analysis. I didn't have any questions according to the report, I didn't even intend to send it to the commission, but I'm looking for an active relationship between this House and what's written in the information. I think it would be a good idea for this House to adopt a conclusion today. So, I'm asking you to make your point. What your relationship will be, positive or negative, is less important to me, for the resolution ministries to launch an initiative to identify the cause of the situation and responsibilities at levels where an enormous rate of crime growth has been identified and to draw up a plan for preventive measures. This is what is important for BiH, and 128 I respect all these conclusions. If people insist on going to the commission to make more content information. I've had enough for this conclusion. So, where the resolution ministries assess enormous growth to make preventive measures and if there is a need to determine responsibility. So, I'm asking you to make a statement about this conclusion and I don't mind people, that other conclusions are being sent to the commission or that we make a statement about them today, but here I insist that we vote on this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14304	Thank you very much. I suggest next. I am still standing at the point that the debate was very content, that all these written conclusions, and not only these, but what was in the discussion in the stenogram should be found once more at the committee meeting and we had the intervention of the members of the commission that only the report from the commission was not most prepared, and this is this working body of this House and let it do its part of the work. He deserves this debate. And let him deliver all this to us together, and we'll give it to the Council of Ministers. And I don't mind, can we decide on this conclusion, which does not exclude the statement of the conclusion proposed by Mr Špirić? I mosliti, he's asking, I'm obliged to put on a plea of this, his proposal for a conclusion. Don't question the rights of counsel. Mr. Novaković still wanted the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14305	I am not disputed, of course, the right of anyone who suggested here to conclude that he insists that we plead today, but I want to make my position here publicly on this conclusion the way I see it. What I can support, I can express the expectation that everyone within their powers and competences will do this job. I will not give orders from this position to the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, because we will not be authorized. I can't do it constitutionally, but I expect the ministry and the cantonal and the Federation Ministry to do it all the way Mr. Špirić wrote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14306	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mrs. Palavrić. Just the end of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14307	Yes, on this point I suggest that if we should put something to the vote, then it is a question of whether today all the proposals of the House's conclusions are being made or whether that proposal, which the chairman said, should go to the committee. I personally prefer Mr. Raguž's proposal but if we only plead on the proposal of Mr. Špirić's conclusion, then I insist we all plead. So the question is whether the House is declaring its conclusions or whether the proposals for conclusions go to the commission, which would be normal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14308	Please, I have not made a difference, I believe, I have assessed the debate with content, the conclusions all the conclusions and suggestions that have come here can certainly be in the function of a more quality report and the establishment of quality measures by the Council of Ministers and therefore I wanted it to be operationalised and systematised at the commission level and that we have one consistent proposal. And come on, here's what I'm putting to the vote. 129 asked for the word Mr. Belkić, so Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14309	The conclusions, or the way to get out of this, I think it would be a shame to have a proper and quality discussion in the finale in some way raise a question. If we need to make a statement about each of the conclusions individually and those who are not given eventually in writing, some of us have seen, some of us have not seen, we would have to ask for a break, try to agree with each other, whether some are contradictory, etc. I think it would be very difficult for us to plead. As far as your request is concerned, Nikola, it's absolutely acceptable for me to take your conclusion and I support it, there's no problem at all, but it would be more correct for us to give the commission, however, that it systematizes this and then go back to Parliament and forward it to the Ministry of the Council of Ministers, because we will fall into complications. I'm speaking from an operational technical aspect. I support your conclusion, absolutely as well as 90% of the conclusions proposed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14310	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14311	I almost thought the same as Mr. Bekić. This is too serious a matter to be given to the commission, that a committee based on the debate is working on conclusions without us knowing later what the commission is going to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14312	We didn't say we didn't know. We said we'd set ourselves up about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14313	All right, then. Therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14314	That's what I said twice, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14315	It's an acceptable suggestion. Please, it is acceptable, therefore, that the debate-based committee, based on the proposed conclusions, draws up a set of conclusions that Parliament will reconsider and adopt. And that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14316	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14317	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not open another debate. As an MP, you have the right to refuse or accept. I ask you, that we do not return this good debate to the beginning and show responsibility. It's August of the season of vacations, it's September, it's the end of the year. We are at a time when the Minister of Security stole a car, foreign minister, member of the Presidency, when entity lines serve to trade car theft, etc. Doesn't this Parliament have the strength to draw an active preventive conclusion. I'm not pushing this conclusion. I don't argue that we plead today, but if after 130 of every debate that is of quality, we buy two months, nothing will improve in the context of security. Why are we running away from that competent ministry, which is why colleague Novaković's story is so not at all. So, that competent ministries under the Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14318	Please, Mr. Špirić, I'll put every proposal to the vote, don't use the pay phone. I've been very correct. So we'll put in the same treatment and your proposal for a conclusion and any representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14319	So all right, but I'm asking you to make my point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14320	And no one wants to challenge what you wanted will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14321	Thank you very much. So you have no need, each vote will be decided according to the conclusion, but I will according to the other conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14322	I apologize for the intervention, but I think I've had to intervene, and I have to, if I respect your right to respect every MP's right, and if any of the other MPs want to make a statement about their conclusion, we'll put it on. You'll get a line here just to comment on Mr. Belkić. Here you go, replica Mr. Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14323	Look, Mr. Špirić, don't put it that way. You want to see how we will be determined according to your proposal for a conclusion. No, we're talking about how to get out of this debate in a technical way, and it's not true that we won't have a session until September. We'll have it at the end of August as agreed. So let's systemize this. There's no need for replicas. It's not true that this is how we treat your proposal. I support him. Of course, I'm asking the authorities to do their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14324	Come on, here you go. Replica again Mr Špirić, pa Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14325	I beg you, therefore, there's no need for anyone to answer to me. I, as an MP, have the right to draw a conclusion, you to vote against or refuse. But please, so my conclusion doesn't require a new report, doesn't ask the ministry to supplement, there's a difference between this conclusion and the others. And I respect the right to plead today, when the commission determines, etc. But ladies and gentlemen, we're MPs, which haste. Is this an important thing for the state? Yeah, let's work till Friday. Let's make valid conclusions. What is it now everyone's prepared to go on vacation. Let's take a break, then we'll do the commission today. But it doesn't seem to be very good. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14326	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. The college is holding a session, and the College has scheduled an even several-day session. I'm not in a hurry anywhere, and I'm not nervous at all, and here's every conclusion, like yours, we're gonna put on a vote and elaborate. And what I'm about to say as chairman now, I don't think that and by what your conclusion has risen beyond the conclusions of other agents and the quality of the debate. On the contrary, I think there was one real debate here as a whole and that you contributed as well as the other MPs. That's what this is about. And no one wants any negative selection here. We're all looking for a way to conclude the session with quality. And I personally thought that the commission had a mission, and that's her role, to systematize and prepare for the House, to take a step in systemic resolution and accession. And that was the suggestion. But if you want to do it now and you want others, then I'm obliged to put everyone to the vote. That's what it was, and there's no need for anyone to deny anyone anything. I'll suggest, Mr. Novaković, did you want a word? Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14327	I mean, really, if I knew that with this conclusion, I would change the issue in BiH's security with both hands would be for him. But of these stories that after this we will go on vacations and we will not make such a significant conclusion, which will completely change the security situation in BiH, really does not stand. Well, come on, I'll be against this conclusion, and I said what I'll be against. I'll be against it because it touches constitutional jurisdiction, and because I'm not going from this position to the RS MUP until it has the National Assembly. When she's gone, then I'll plead here. So that's why I'll be against it, not because I'm against fighting, crime, or that the D.O.D.'s are doing their job. That's why I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14328	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word was requested by Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14329	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, to make it easier for us to get out of this, I have a concrete proposal. Let's make it clear here if we're going to vote on all the proposals today, or we're going to give the commission a commission to prepare for us, so when it's ready, then we're going to vote on the conclusions. I am opposed to voting on any proposal for a conclusion today and not voting on the others. Either we do it to everyone or we don't talk about one thing. I propose that, before we say so, should we vote today on individual proposals for conclusions or should we refer these proposals to the Commission to propose a final version to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14330	So, I'm going to put this one on the statement of the conclusion proposal to open the possibility of a single statement of conclusions, a statement of individual conclusions, and we have a full proposal that we'll also make known. 132 I'm asking you now to check the MPs' cards always, don't let this one, by the media, check ourselves out in the hall. I'm always open here in the hall to solve all open questions, including how to vote. So we vote on it here, Mr. Duraković,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14331	I wrote, I just didn't get to make one conclusion, about like this. To propose to this Parliament, that we adopt today a conclusion, that the competent authorities, the competent ministry initiate an emergency procedure to amend the relevant members of the Criminal Law on the possession of weapons without authorisation. I have been asked by dozens of police officers throughout BiH, because they think it is an incredible mess and that if the code were to be sharpened in this sense, the criminal sense that many of these problems we are talking about would be resolved more effectively. I wrote this, so here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14332	Deliver it, it will be treated with these other conclusions and there were still demands to correct this Criminal Code, so it fits. I therefore ask the representatives to make a statement about the proposal to declare ourselves individually on the conclusions. Who's in favor of an individual plea? Vote now. We're just pleading, we're not saying anything, the House is declaring itself to the way it's concluded. I don't know why it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14333	..so far we've never voted in such a way that someone is forbidden to have his conclusion loudly here in any way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14334	Whosoever He forbids, then do not, then choose your words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14335	Directly by saying that if it is now voted not to go to the individual, Mr Špirić will vote his conclusion. So, please, make it different. Please make it clear that all the other MPs who have their conclusions, if they want to settle for your conclusion, will go to the commission, and that Mr Špirić, like any MP here, has the right to ask that his conclusion be voted upon on his conclusion. It's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. Don't let this matter be a violation of the Rules of Procedure we've respected so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14336	I ask that when you get your word, answer and take care of what you say. There was no ambition here to forbid anyone. I've put forward a proposal by the MPs to plead this way. The results are there. And now I'm going to put in Mr. Špirić's proposal, as chairman here and after this. So, after this, but after this, for a plea. But before that, I'm going to put in a suggestion to conclude, and here I think watching turns out that we're forbidding someone here. I ask the House to make a statement about the proposal that I have as chairman, that all the conclusions presented in this debate and in written form and what will be recorded in the stenogram will be sent to the competent commission which will prepare a report with a proposal for adoption to this House. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please vote now. We'll morati to do it again. There wasn't enough time. You've cut our time for four seconds, twice. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. I ask the MPs to vote on this proposal's conclusion. Vote now. I find that the House of 34 votes to, without the votes against, the abstentions, accepts the proposal for the conclusions I have proposed as chairman of the House. I will now not have any way to question the respect of the Rules of Procedures of this House, put forward a proposal for a conclusion submitted by Mr Nikola Špirić. I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the proposal for a conclusion submitted by Mr Nikola Špirić. Vote now. For 8, 16 against, 9 abstentions, therefore this proposal did not receive the general majority and was not accepted. This is how I close this agenda. Tell Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14337	If we need to make a statement, then the conclusion goes further and doesn't go into procedure. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14338	The good Parliament will give its position through the debate on the proposal for conclusions that will be delivered to us by the committee. This concludes this agenda point. And we move on to the point we have left at the 41st session, the only point left. So this is giving consent to the appointment of the Chief Auditor of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office You have already received the proposal set by the BiH Presidency. We kind of touched this question at the last session. Proposal for a Decision laying down a proposal for a candidate-general of the Financial Audit Office. The Bureau set out a proposal to make it 134 Mr. Milenko Šego. In the attachment, you also got a résumé. The issue opened at last session of the term of office. I personally think that today we should make a statement about the presidency's proposal and fill that place out. If a certain kind of conclusion is to be drawn on the basis of the debate that was, but to finish this job, it is not to Parliament. That's my suggestion. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14339	So as we are nearing the end of the term of the auditors, I am talking about the proposal for a conclusion, so it is clear that we need to fill this place and I accept that we are filling it, with the conclusion that his term of office continues as long as the two are and another conclusion, that he has the right to participate equally in the competition for the next auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14340	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14341	Mr. Chairman, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wasn't in the session last time. Maybe that's what he's doing with me, maybe I think something that was in the debate last time, and so I apologize to my colleagues, if I'm going to say it again. I think we need to fill out the Chief Auditor's vacant seat and I don't mind the name of the proposed candidate. In fact, I don't know anything but this, from the candidate's biography, so what might praise him or challenge him. But what I also want to say is that my position is either to adopt a conclusion or to return this decision to the Presidency to determine the time it chooses, therefore, in accordance with what Seada said at the time of the end of the term of office and to other auditors who are in accordance with the existing law appointed to those functions by both homes. Since a new Act on Auditors working by OHR, domestic and international experts is being prepared, and if we do not limit time to the end of the mandate, this could open up many complications and seem to me to be unnecessary settlements. So, with this active relationship, that we adopt a conclusion to the Presidency and say that this decision relates to the mandate, to the end of the term of office of these five years, because what would happen? Every time from any nation, now it's about Hrvat, someone could resign before the end of the term and choose a new one for the next five years. So we wouldn't have come to a situation that wouldn't be good. So to either draw a conclusion or to return the decision to the Presidency to install time. But if it will satisfy the Presidency, the active conclusion of Parliament, then it can go with the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14342	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković. I think we can accept this proposal's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14343	On the trail here, two discussions, so let me just say, since I spoke last time. I mean, I'd be better off if we could, but we can't change the presidency's decision. So either way, we can make a conclusion that would allow me to formulate this way. That candidate will perform the role of the Office's auditor-general for the revision of BiH's 135 financial operations by the end of the term of office of the previous auditor-general, or the mandate of the auditor-general. So that's how this job ends and gets into a new procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14344	Thank you very much. So I suggest yes, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14345	We are inclined to go on the trail of this to get the presidency back, to have the presidency specify this, on which term is called the Chief Auditor. However, we are in favour of launching an initiative, one call to the Presidency to members 6 and 7. The Revision Act, etc. which speaks of the appointment of a chief and deputy auditor, on the basis of them to make rules and procedures that will provide a different way of selecting an auditor in terms of a public call, in terms of transparency in terms of further depoliticalisation of that function.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14346	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. If I may just say, I've done a certain kind of consultation and I think this is today, I don't need to return it again, but with this conclusion, and it's going on precisely, while the mandate is going on, we're filling in the functioning of the intuition. The term of office takes place while the other auditors and we cannot continue to postpone. Make it a full institution, it's not Parliament. In the future, we can also make that conclusion if you want to deliver it to the Presidency. Replica Mr. Špirić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14347	Officially, things aren't as simple as we want to prove it. We're doing the House attesting candidates and we can't change the presidency's decision. So we don't get into college, so let's be clear. The conclusions of this House do not oblige the Presidency when a decision is made for me, it is formally legal only to return the presidency to the decision, to enter a deadline until which this director of the audit house will perform his function. Everything else is not bound by the Presidency, and in accordance with this story, I will behave in the vote. So, I don't mind that, but I'm going to vote for the decision to come back, to supplement it. I thought you could.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14348	Okay, Nikola, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14349	But I would beg the Secretary of the House to give
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14350	Okay, clearly, here's your point of view. So you go out twice for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14351	So wait a minute, so look you have CERA incomplete, you have ministries unfulfilled, you have non-creation for unfulfilled accreditation, what's now all of a sudden? 136
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14352	So anything that comes on the agenda, I put and fill and do my job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14353	And here it came unprepared for the agenda, or I disagree with such a formulation of the Presidency, and in that sense I guess I have the right to say, and yet it is Parliament's right to vote according to their will. I don't mind if this House makes a decision, I'll respect it, but don't make decisions, which is not in line with the mandate we've been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-14-0.u14354	Nikola, forgive me, but I was told that you were prepared to conclude and could pass and there is no disputed conclusion because we agree to appoint from the Presidency, consultations have been carried out and the Presidency will act under such circumstances. We can add a conclusion about clarifying procedures and doing business. Well, nobody imposes anything here. I mean, it's not like it's accepted to make it clear that this mandate lasts while other auditors do. And there's no dispute about the candidate, no one's made any reservations, and now once again, the third session to go, so it's not okay either. I place this proposal on a statement with the conclusion proposed by Mrs Palavrić and Mr Novaković. I ask the House to declare this proposal for the appointment of the BiH institution's chief auditor. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, I agree that the House with 33 votes in favour of, 1st, 4 abstentions, and the enough entity majority agreed that Mr Milan Šego, Mr. Palavrić and Mr. Novakovic, were appointed as the candidate for the General Auditor-General of the BiH Financial Audit Office, with the conclusion proposed by Mrs. Palavric and Mr. Novaković. I think they are this one, so that they, along with this House decision, are delivered together to the BiH presidency. I thank the MPs and since we've exhausted the agenda from the 41st session, I think it would be a good idea to give a lunch break and get back to work at 1400 hours, the new 42nd session. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 12:50 p.m.
