ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12537	Gentlemen, distinguished MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, at the session as usual, our regular guests are invited to the envoys of international NGOs who follow the work of the House. Once again, I warmly welcome you MPs as well as guests of the session. Please one more time, before we start working to make sure you put your cards right. I konstatirati that the session is attended by 34 MPs, 24 is from the Federation and 10 from the RS. We have a quorum and we can decide. Justice for today's session was sought by Mr Abdulah Nakaš, Mr Nikola Kragulj and Mr Kunić Petar. Ladies and gentlemen, for today's session, you received a draft agenda in writing. I would remind you that before this session, we held a session of the Extended College and that the Extended College accepted that, in relation to the agenda that you received, you would include another 14th item of the agenda, it is the appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on identical text, and under a) the Law on taking a judicial examination and the Law on Police Officers. I think it's necessary to classify this point in order not to waste our time and to comply with the laws in good time. It's about the agenda by a rope and an extended college. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Nobody's answering. Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate and conclude that the 36th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Record of the 34th session, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, 4. Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act following an urgent procedure pursuant to Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a law on the High Destiny and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, first reading, 6. Proposal for a law on litigation before the Court of Justice of BiH, first reading, 2 7. “ The Bible’s Viewpoint, ” 8 / 8 Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Refugee Immigration and Asylum, on the state of human rights in Arizona Markets, 9. Report by the Committee on Human Rights Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, on the party's presentation, naći Dizdarević, 10. Information on the financing of municipal elections in 2004, 11. Information on export licences issued, i.e. imports of arms and military equipment in 2003, 12. Information on the state of external responsibility of BiH on 31 March 12.2003., 13. Giving consent to ratify the first amendment of the Credit Agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and under 14. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the same text and under (a) the Law on taking a judicial examination and under (b) the Law on Police Officers of BiH. We're going to work on our adopted agenda. We have, before you is the record, point Ad.1. The log from the 34th session you got. I'm opening a debate on the record. Anybody by the record, Mr. Sead Avdić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12538	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, under the report, Interim report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, under Ad.3. I suggested ending this conclusion the following way. To end in the following way, which means, and especially from the bh environment within 3 months, the Council of Ministers proposes a new Bill proposal and the text in brackets is deleted. I have intervened twice, and this is what Parliament has adopted (?). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12539	Parliament adopted a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and a proposal to conclude the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was proposed in the debate, but proposals were adopted in written form proposed by the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Here's the Secretary of the House and I as chairman of this house, standing behind what I'm saying. We can check the stenogram, but I think Mr. Avdić that I really think it was this way, it was. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12540	...so you didn't even want to put it to the vote. So, so the inaccuracy is so I really mean real problems in the records.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12541	Look, you're trying to make a problem about something that doesn't need to be done. There was a written report on this, the Constitutional and Legal Commission that was adopted at the House session. It can be checked in as a monograph, I offered to check the stenogram of this, and here we can ask for that part for the next session, so let's see. If there's a need for this, to really correct here, to respect this if you are, I mean it's not an intention to ignore it, but it's something behind what the service is and. Can we adopt the record this way, with this extra part of the stenogram this, check and inform the Dom. Is there more about the record? Here's my thanks. If not, can we accept the minutes for the 34th session of the House of Representatives? Please state by voting, now on the record, vote now. With – 32 votes for, - 1 abstention, with the required entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives adopted the minutes from the 34th session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The parliamentary questions and answers in the meantime were answered by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, asked at the 29th session and Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić for the question asked at the 30th session. Also, MP Ivo Miro Jović of the Federal MuP in connection with his question received a letter that cannot be considered an answer. Does anyone want to comment on the answers you've received? Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The truth is I got an answer to the question I asked three months ago. The answer I think is nakaradno because the law I asked about will be finished, said it will be completed in April of the month. The truth here is that it's not said for what years, whether next or some next year, and what I can't accept as an answer is, that such a law is strictly bound to delay the organisation of an indirect taxation agency, which should right now be the subject of someone else's question, and perhaps mine, why 4 is not being handled as agreed and concluded. If we wait like this, I think we're really going to get into a situation where we don't pass the laws that are necessary and then put them on the jazz better on a partial basis, we're doing it by putting out the fire. So you see before, in the last Parliament, we are being ripped out of this law by three categories of meat and brought in, that they are categorized in a certain way. I don't think that law should be set up like that. The answer isn't right, and whoever suspects it can look at it and see it. I'm asking exactly, when will this law be passed? I'm not being held accountable here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12543	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Any more comments? There isn't. Thank you very much. Now we have a part of this point that concerns the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Who wants to ask a representative question? Mr. Nijaz Duraković was first reported. Here you go, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12544	You've probably heard of this scandal that took place in Stoc during the first century. A reminder works, the Stoca Youth Forum is perfectly legal and in a fine democratic way has been announced by the head of the Municipality of Stolac, introducing him to the initiative that it would be more nonsensical to continue the flag of the non-existent state on the table fortress and that they intend to take it down and place the flag of BiH in that place. And that's how it came down, but then there were big problems, all kinds of interferences, calculations, political pranks, accusations, etc. Namely, what's the ugliest tomorrow, and with the help of the international police force, and of the ESFOR armored vehicles, my Bog, and if it were a coup, they probably wouldn't be so effective. A total of 12 armored vehicles came to Old Town and along with police officials took down the flag of BiH and installed the flag of the so-called. Herceg Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12545	That's the most beautiful.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12546	I know Jović is the most beautiful, but you have sworn an oath here to another flag,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12547	It's a long way from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12548	And then let it be, let it wind up in Croatia. I'd like to ask you not to come in. First, therefore, there was even a police examination of the guys who put up that flag, and I think the biggest nonsensus is the biggest, the paradox of the largest, the shame of this country, is 5 that the first international force in the form of the ESFOR, or European police, come and help and keep the flag of the BiH state and install some others even though Jović was so dear. It is not very hateful at all, but let the Croatian people, the question is why will the flag of the Croatian people be on a cultural monument, in a city that is both Croatian and Serbian and Bosniak. And why there will be the flag of another state in a sovereign and internationally recognised state. And thirdly, why is there even a need for that flag to wind up on a fortress? But what's most important is why I'm asking the question, is who does the flag of the BiH state bother? And what are these people who have been paid, therefore, to help, with the help of an international community, to help bring down the flag of BiH? In that sense, my question is this, that, I don't know who's in charge, but I'm asking as an employer in this house, to lead the matter of responsibility. The first chair of the presidency, Mr Tihić, who is under the Constitution, I guess is in charge of defending this flag and defending the sovereignty of this country, and who, as usual, did not report on it at all. Secondly, let's see what Mr. Terzić's responsibility is like to say to the president of the government of this country who is so baffled and stripped of the flag, and thirdly, to see what and how responsible the government of the Federation of BiH is, starting with the prime minister and until the competent minister. And the fourth, and perhaps first, is to raise the issue of concrete responsibilities against the head of the Municipality of Stolac, i.e. the head of Mup Stoc, who are these same guys who, therefore, are from the best intentions completely legal, legal, and how they would react, patriotically, they have been brought to follow-up, blaspheming police harassment. Well, people, is there anything in the history of a country that guys who put the flag of their own state, little ones and don't get charged with undermining national and interfaith and similar relationships? It is indeed the greatest disgrace this Parliament and this state can experience in the first place. And so I ask the authorities to urgently prepare the answers for the next session and tell us what they've done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12549	I thank Mr. Duraković. Please just send the question in writing. Next was Mr. Jović, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12550	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12551	Here's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12552	Mr. Duraković, here's your line, but I've got one six here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12553	...I really don't know Mr. Jović, where I am when, how... I think it's one prank, insinuation and shame on you. Shame on you. Blinded by the nationalism that you carry here and... persistently demonstrate don't overwrite it...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12554	Please, Mr. Duraković, I take your word
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12555	It's not a microphone... it's a reason not to make your flag, shame on you...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12556	Well, let me have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12557	Please, I'm interrupting the debate on this issue. If you want a replica, Mr. Jović, you can have it. Mr. Duraković won. If you want to get a replica and answer, please don't tolerate getting into a word or taking a word. You will always get the word when you ask and the ability to replicate and answer, if you think so. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12558	By who knows which way and in this home, it wants to deny the existence of the Croatian people in BiH. The Croatian people are a people who have their coat of arms and flag. It is a historical coat of arms and a historical flag for at least ten centuries. Where the Croatian people live, they have the right to use their symbols. He who touches those symbols touches the Croatian people. In addition to that flag she could stand and BiH should stand and such discussions that offend the national rights of one nation is a doctor of the university who does not know that this people have their own flag, it is a shame and misery of our education.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12559	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Mr. Zorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12560	I wanted to intervene before Mr. Jović now spoke. I thought I would ask for a break of 10 minutes, because it is inappropriate for two MPs to talk to me like that in this Parliamentary Assembly, although when you gave me your word and when my colleague Novaković gave me the time, in fact allowed me to speak before him, I support almost everything Mr. Duraković said here. I actually want information on that event, because I don't know anything about this one. Although some 7 statements by Mr Duraković do not stand, such as The congregation of the Municipality of Stolac, it does not exist and so on. Herceg Bosna, I don't think she's standing. Herceg Bosnia or representatives of Herzeg Bosnia signed the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12561	Okay, thank you, Mr. Jović. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12562	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members, guests, I have a question to the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Security. Whether there is a possibility of trial and judgment in the State Border Service for a verbal delinquent, and whether the code of conduct signed by workers actually makes it possible. Second, which also relates to the case, did the verdict, namely the sentence of Aleksandra Mumović, punish for verbal delinquency and thirdly whether the president or member of the second-degree disciplinary commission resigned and why? According to the information I have at my disposal, there is a code of conduct in the State Border Service that allows workers to accuse each other of a verbal delinquent and that the first one to sue, and on the way out, has the possibility of bringing the other into a very ugly situation. So here happened with the case of Aleksandra Mumović, where an ordinary morning coffee and exchange of different opinions on some current issues led to the fact that even according to the information I also have, again, and the president of the second-degree disciplinary commission, resigning, given the reasons why it was even subject and the case appeared and then why the case appeared on this second-degree commission. Therefore, I would ask the Ministry of Security to provide me with complete information on this issue under a, b, and c, respectively, 1, 2 and 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12563	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12564	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the employees, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, namely, I just wanted to draw attention that this is a point of the agenda, asking MPs questions and I don't think there are any intended replicas and answers, of course, there are competent addresses that will answer whether one of the MPs is asked a question less or more like it. And I think it should be kept in college relations. The question I want to ask is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Security with the intention of getting an answer in this Parliamentary Assembly Council. What 8 property security is like for BiH citizens. What motivated me to ask that question? If it is true that in the last 15 days or a month a car has been stolen from two of BiH's most responsible officials, and it is the foreign minister and minister of security of several hundred thousand KMs, then the question of the security of the people who have the property and whether it will be a preventive measure for all of us to sit in our cars so that the mob in co-operation with the state will not continue to steal, rob, and it seems to me that there is no state in the world where the foreign minister and the minister of security, criminals can raise the car without taking anything in the security sector so that the property security of our people living in this country is raised to a significantly higher level. So, question, first of all, are the exact information that the cars were stolen? And what the Ministry means is that the property security of every single person in this country would be at a higher level. I just want to draw the public's attention that for the price of these cars, 60 return homes in BiH could be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12565	I thank Mr. Špirić. Anyone else want to ask questions? Mr. Živković, then Mr. Jovanović, before Mr. Lozančić, forgive Mr. Jovanović. So Mr. Živković, Mr. Lozančić, then Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12566	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, will be held in Geneva on 18 May of this year. The World Health Organization Assembly. I am interested and I am asking the question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to explain to us the first delivery of the composition of the delegation, to explain the way in which it is called, by which criteria I have the impression that, given the documents to be brought there, it concerns the Convention, on the proposal of the President of the UN, on the basis of the population, the development, the rights, the youth, etc. that probably someone from this Parliament should have been in that delegation. Especially when we know that everyone in their budget is funding such visits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12567	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12568	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers. It is a continuation of the questions I asked a year ago and I am still waiting for an answer that I have not received and is from the field of measurement and standardisation in BiH. We know that in 2001 a law was passed that regulates the area of standardisation and measurement of intellectual property as well as accreditation and this legislation was passed by the High Representative, Mr Petrić, on the basis of the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council in Brussels, 2000. 9 So far, we should have arranged this matter and established three institutes, i.e. The Institute of Measurement, the Institute of Standardisation, the Institute of Intellectual Property, at BiH level as well as at entity levels. It is known that we are in the phase of the adoption of the law on the formation of three institutes, why we should not break deadlines and the deadlines have already been broken. So my question is this: it is known if, for Sarajevo-Mostar or Banja Luka, we meet by gas stations with three different stamps for the verification of the station, and this is the stamp of the Federation of BiH, which is placed by the Federation of BiH, a mark by the Institute of Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH and the stamp of the RS. I'm interested in my question, too, which stamps are correct and which ones aren't? It would be logical if they were exclusively entity or exclusively state-owned. This is how we have each other and the third stamps. I'm also interested in who's charging for verifications and how much they are and where they're paying verification fees. It is the exact same situation in small shops and large department stores, that on scales there were also three types of stamps to verify the scales. And the people on the ground, they simply look and they're confused and they're not sure whose brand should be and which is valid. So I ask you to send me a report in writing from the Council of Ministers, who has the right to benefit, and what applicable acts is this regulated use of stamps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12569	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12570	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the BiH Electoral Commission. And I would ask how and how the mayors of municipalities in RS are elected. Connected to the Municipality of Zvornik? Accordingly, I'm asking a few questions. Is it necessary to respect the previous procedure provided for in the Statute and Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Municipality? I also ask whether the previous opinion or any agreement of the commission, the BiH Election Commission on the proposed candidate, is necessary. Also whether the mayor of the municipality can be, should be from the order of municipal councilors or could be anyone? And fourthly, whether the head of the municipality can be elected if at a session of 7 parties held by the councils in the municipality, there is no presence so the committees are not present from 4 parties. I'll try to put this together a little bit and deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12571	Thank you very much. Any more questions? Mr. Sead Avdić and Mrs. Jelina Đurković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12572	Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues, the adoption of the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH has begun the implementation of 10 important reform laws with a view to reforming the fiscal sector and ensuring a single customs and economic space throughout BiH. As a consequence of the implementation of the parliamentary procedure and the new Customs Policy Act with accompanying sublaws, the Law on the Common Payment Account of BiH for the payment of indirect tax revenues, the Law on the Way and Method, the distribution of collected indirect taxes, the Law on the Service for indirect taxation and of the particular importance of the Tax Act on additional value in BiH. Meanwhile, in Banja Luka, there was a need to establish a Directorate for indirect taxation, to provide a facility for the establishment of administration, to deploy staff or civil servants in line with new systematicisation, to provide financial resources for the smooth functioning of the Direct Taxation Administration. So, this way I call on the Council of Ministers to provide the BiH Parliament with information as long as it has arrived to all these jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12573	Thank you, Mr. Avdić, did Mr. Altić ask for a word? Or was this pressed? It's not. Mrs. Đurković has her word now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12574	I actually want to renew the question I asked almost a year ago. It was related to the participation of the Knights and the Brotherhood in the illicit arms trade at the time of Iraq's sanctions, in fact in the same way that the orao took part in the knowledge. The eagle is sanctioned and in court, and the Brotherhood and Knights have not yet been called. I ask that the Council of Ministers, especially now that we have received the Secretary of Defense, answer the question, did the Brotherhood and the Knights participate and what measures have been taken? I know, in the meantime, that the report exists on the table of Prime Minister of the Federation. So please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12575	I thank Mrs. Đurković. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to the third wheel, that's A.3. Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, Dama and gentlemen, distinguished MPs, in connection with the Decision establishing the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, you received information. Today, we have a confirmation of the appointment for four positions, according to a decision taken by the BiH Presidency, which you received in accordance with Article 37. The BiH Defence Act. The candidate list is next. Under 1. Brigades Rizvo Pleh, D.A.'s office at the Department of Defense, under 2. Colonel Miladin Milojčić, acting as Deputy Chief of Joint Staff of BiH for Resources, under 3. Colonel Mirko Tepšić, acting Deputy Commander of the Operational Command for Operations and Under 4. Brigadier Sakib Forić, acting Deputy Commander of the Opeative Resource Command. In addition to your decision, you've been given the lives of the candidate. The decision was discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight of Labour, Defence Security Structures and proposed that the House support the appointment of the proposed candidates. With us, BiH Defence Minister Mr. Radovanović, who was authorised by the BiH presidency to give an explanation at the House of Representatives about this item of the agenda. I greet him and give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As just noted, in the procedure of nominating candidates for general positions in BiH's state-level defence system, the BiH presidency set out a proposal for four candidates at the May 5th meeting this year, or a four-seat candidate, by deciding on seven state-level positions. At the same time, I was empowered to explain the proposal at today's session of the Parliamentary Assembly. I feel the need to explain briefly this procedure that preceded today's debate. So, under the BiH Defence Act, the BiH Ministry of Defence referred 5th of April to the certification procedure in the ESFOR Command of the 19th total candidate list for the projected 13 positions in the BiH defence system, predominantly predisposed to place a person in the rank of general. 22.04. The BiH defence ministry received a letter from the ESFOR commander giving consent to 8 of the 19 candidates submitted, and as already said on 5th, the Standing Committee on Military Affairs proposed and the BiH presidency set out a list of four candidates. Although I am informed that you have the biographical data, the four persons, I would like to say once again that the proposed Brigadier, pleh Rizvo, is in the position of the BiH Ministry of Defence Inspector General. Brigadir Rizvo was born 17.04. 1962 in Gorazd. He finished the Military Academy of the Land Army in Belgrade and the Military Land Academy in the Republic of Turkey. He performed command duties of the BiH Army. Current duty, Chief of Staff and Corps of the Federation Army. Brigadir Rizvo is married, father is two children and settled in Sarajevo. 12 The second candidate is Colonel Milojčić Miladin. He is proposed to serve as Deputy Chief of Staff for Resources. Colonel Milojčić was born on 26 March 1958 in Kotor Varoša. He graduated from the Military Academy of the Land Army in Belgrade, the General Staff School and the National Defence School in Belgrade. He is currently on the post of Chief of Staff of the Department of Status Affairs at the National Staff of the RS Army. Colonel Milojčić is married, father is two children and is settled in Banja Luka. The third candidate is Colonel Tepšić Mirko, who is proposed to serve as deputy commander of the Operational Operation Command. Colonel Tepšić was born on 03.12. 1961 in Dvorn, U.S.A. He graduated from the Military Academy of the Land Army in Belgrade, the General Staff School and the National Defence School in Belgrade. Current duty, Head of the Department of Planning and Coordination at the RS Army General Staff Plan and Operations Administration. Colonel Tepšić is married, father is two children, settled in Banja Luka. And the fourth candidate is Brigadier Forić Sakib. He is proposed to serve as deputy commander of the Operational Resource Command. Brigadir Forić was born on May 2, 1967 in Prijedor. He graduated from the Military Academy of the Land Army in Belgrade and a postgraduate study at the Faculty of Political Sciences. He performed command duties in the units of the BiH Army and is currently head of the strategy section at the Federation Joint Command Policy Office. Brigadir Forić is married, father of one child and settled in Sarajevo. I also feel the need to say that the appointment of a person to general positions in the BiH-level defence system is one of the conditions under the defence reform process, under which BiH's application for accession to the Partnership for Peace Programme is assessed and this process is significant. It is therefore significant from the point of view of reforms and the construction of state-level defence institutions. In the first edition of this nomination, it concerns the establishment and functioning of the Joint Staff of BiH and the Operational Command as components of the Ministry of Defence and the common chain of command from the Presidency to the armed forces units and, on the other hand, this procedure to...from formal procedures, or the appointment of these persons is of formal importance because of the assessment of the stages of reforms achieved, meeting the conditions for accession to the Partnership for Peace Programme. According to all the assessments, which also come from governments, the NATO Member State is the part of the activity that is conditionally qualified as a technical part of the reform takes place at an appropriate pace and according to the current state of affairs the largest part or all activities that fall within the defence ministry's jurisdiction will be completed by the Istanbul Summit. One of the critical conditions is that at today's session Parliament's House of Representatives confirms this proposal by four candidates, which would allow the BiH presidency to formally appoint them and then continue the procedure for forming the Joint Staff and the Operational Command. I would also take the opportunity to thank you for the support I at least feel by the Joint Committee on Defence and Security and the fact that this point is put on the agenda for a very short period of time. Finally, I propose 13 conclusions that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in accordance with the BiH Defence Law, consider the candidate's proposal and confirm the appointment of four candidates as submitted in the proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12577	I thank the Secretary of Defense. So, Mr. Mladen Potočnik, well sir, I have the order Potočnik, Lagumdžija, Gligorić. Jović, did you get that? Mr. Jović. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12578	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, if I understand correctly, 7 is such a place in the BiH Army and I'm surprised we're only talking about 4 now if I've detected correctly, 2 from Bosniak and 2 from the Serb people. I'm interested in what happens to the other members and why we don't solve it in a package or there are some problems that Mr. Minister might answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12579	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word has it if you agree, I suggest that the minister, after the others, please eventually if he feels the need, I told him he can intervene whenever he considers it necessary. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12580	Here I am, if it's all right. I thank you for having Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as these little get me out of power, as SDS boss is the boss, and Mr. Zorić in the sense that it would be a good idea for me to leave it to him, too. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Anyway, what Mr. Lagumdžija is saying this, he leaves it so elegantly to me, means he's not burdened with these leaderships who want him to have as far as I can see, impute it lightly. All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with these biographies we got. Believe that it would certainly be more necessary for MPs to receive, so that they could know which candidates and their way of life they are dealing with. In practice, we've got you looking from state officials to unconsciousness. You're looking for gentlemen and the Ministry of Defense against soldiers, and when you write him that he's as prone to alcohol as he is to escape, it's hard for him. You have everything and you only run everything when it comes to future generals, then it's a few sentences and it's really not allowed, and so I'd ask the minister if he has any knowledge, whether these proposed people are party-oriented now, whether they were, if they were in any party, because I think it's the same important question that it doesn't turn out to be a non-partisan person, so he can cover all of this in the depths that are proposed. 14 At the same time, I would like to emphasise this co-ordination of the 5th April ministry, so SFOR corresponds to 22, so the impact and role of the Presidency in all of this, I believe that at least a sentence should be said, two related to one irresponsible relationship with the Presidency when it comes to proposing these people. And it's one of the conditions that we need to meet, but it seems like who knows which way it is that human policy is actually a stumbling block in BiH and that reforms can't go because they can't agree in power, so I can't do it when it comes to the defence system. The presidency chorusly criticises SFOR for why it does not say on the basis of its discretionary right why it eliminates certain candidates and generals who have proposed it, while at the same time asking the question of who gives them the right to propose candidates on and what are the criteria by which they define it. First of all, according to the people who haven't passed, I consider it an injustice for the reasons that these people have been educated for their invitation. And they only get one call in their life. And politicians, who decide on them, have led to the humiliating position of these people who, as soldiers, carried out only an order or policy of politics and civil authorities. And national policies that have introduced war on their generals or officers are tasked with what they should do today bear responsibility from the same policy that is in power after 13... years. I believe that such a staff policy should be condemned for future relations because they are burdened solely by party ambitions to bring people who will be obedient and enforce a particular policy and then in their party's intention, in fact as to the case of these people who have humiliated and trampled, came into the situation that they have done a bear service to these people despite their own but not their good intentions, because theirs was their ultimate intention. I therefore believe that a new human policy should be conducted in BiH in the sense that responsible, serious, professional, competent people come into all functions and that commission we have had, one crackdown on concessions, because the same principle applies to the same pattern at all places in BiH. Of course, this appeal of mine will be a laughing matter of self-satisfying nationalist parties, but I believe that this should have been said in Parliament by the viscous people who have put themselves in a position to be humiliated in public, to think that they have done something wrong, because in this way a verdict has actually been made without the courts and the legal institutions. I speak in principle, for all men equally and officers equally without distinction whether they are božnjak, Hrvat or Srbin. Of course, if there was a greater problem here in the power establishment if, if it had happened that Serbian candidates had not gained passability, then, depending on that degree, someone would have been involved and again shown the bad intentions of certain parties in BiH, and I don't want us to fall into that trap. Therefore, after the reply of the Minister, which refers to biography, can be broader, larger and whether he is familiar or will have to accept what our people in the Presidency have served, and which are absolutely untrustworthy when it comes to this, the relationship in terms of proposing and human policy in BiH, and of course are these people burdened with politics because we, if we said we needed the Ministry of Defence, to be controlled by Parliament, and by the civilian authorities, in this case what did we get? Whether one cover, one farce, or if we really got that reform that we're trying to do, I personally don't think we did. Because when you open that curtain, called parliamentary democracy, you'll see nationalist positions, nationalist people and nationalist politics that I don't think is reform. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12581	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Before I give my word to Mr Lagumdžija, I ask that Mr Gligorić use terms for the parties here in Parliament that are official and that if you have problems with the content of the eating activity... that's your argument. I think it's incorrect to label the nationalist parties that make up this House here in general and I don't think it should be a practice in this House. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12582	What about the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12583	Please, you had a replica. I don't have the information that you asked for a replica, but you'll get a replica, and if you answer for the line, please point out that it's for the replica, because I don't have any replicas. Mrs. Palavrić, excuse me, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12584	I'm really sorry Mr. Lagumdžija is going to wait a little longer, but he, he doesn't mind that I'm sure. Dear Presidency, I really expect Mr Gligorić to change his tactics every time and that he is finally starting to discuss the point that is the subject of the agenda. However, politicizing is always repeated, and here, as Parliamentarian, I have to suffer and politicize if we don't already know the code in Parliament, I will listen and politicise, but I won't listen to the claim literally national policies that have led to the war. That's what Mr. Gligorić says and he doesn't say it the first time. I ask you not to do this, that when you alludate to the national parties in BiH and you want to say that the war in BiH was thanks to the national parties in BiH, I will only ask if these parties from BiH were in Slovenia or Croatia to which aggression was also committed before BiH. And if you're ready, Mr. Gligorić, to establish here the character of war, and I don't think we're ready yet, I am, but I'm afraid as long as there is a thesis, that there is more truth, we are not prepared as Parliament to determine the character of war. I hope if Bog will come one day, when we will be standing up in this House to talk about the character of war and end it. But please don't use every opportunity until then and try not to mutate national parties to cause war in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12585	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Replica Mr Gligorić, pa Novaković replica. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I think you're right when you said the official names of the parties and I agree with that, it stands. However, I have spoken in a broader context in terms of one common policy, one relationship and one climate. Everyone likes to say we create an ambience, etc. So in that environment I wanted to say something in which the national parties meant, they crossed from one stage, I'm very different. National, nationalist towards chauvinistism. So in that context, I was going to say, where this border that any national party considers has not crossed that threshold. It's really something you can talk about, somewhere else. As for Mrs. Seada Palavrić and my claims that the national parties had brought these peoples into war, I think the fact that we entered a tragic, unfortunate conflict, in which people divided, each of them, into their own flock, which they would say and go and at the same time became truly one fearsome war. Those who at the time ruled must take responsibility for what it was. If you remember the communists handed over power to a peaceful, democratic path, and then they came to the national polygargy, together they agreed that it would be a good life for us, that we would live as they live in Switzerland, and then we fell in love with each other. Therefore, who will take that responsibility, I say, and it is not beyond the subject and point of the agenda if these generals have exercised that policy and today they should be punished and sacrificed, because I guess you know so much that in any country in the world, if they enter an armed conflict, officers who have been educated for their whole life to obey the orders of a particular state, one government, here you have made them a victim and the main culprits, and those who gave them orders in which they should go, whether they acted according to the code and the rules of war, I'm not talking about it, but it's simply the principle and matrix for all the countries in the world. And I don't know why anyone should be irritated here and why we should be talking about aggression here when Dejton said and I think that all sides have agreed here, that it's a tragic conflict and Mrs Sead Palavrić, because of her good relationships, otherwise in society, should be used as a lawyer in particular, that termology. I think at this point, until the character of war is solved, it's still the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12587	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12588	I have to say that I am because of the width,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12589	Replica, search... I announced replica 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12590	I didn't catch the gist. So it was so wide and globally this discussion looked, that I didn't realize what Mr. Gligorić's discussion was about. Namely, I don't know if it's about defending those who didn't get SFOR's consent because they did something that was dishonest. So not because they participated or not in the war, but because they did something wicked in that war. If that's to defend them, then I have to stand up to it. So I have no intention of defending anyone, for what he did individually in the last war, so I really didn't realize this essence of this whole discussion except for one general assessment or a general assessment that was really too wide. But I didn't get up especially because of it, so I got up to invite Mr Gligorić and some others, to be in the white room at 9:30 on 18 May 2004, when the seminar was held on the Code of Conduct for the BiH Parliamentarians, which is what we got today. Well, I think it would be helpful for some of us here to attend this seminar and maybe learn from it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12591	Thank you. Gligoric replica. Please, Mr. Gligorić, I give you my word all the time, but to keep in mind that we have a list of big ones that we have and that we respect the need to discuss the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12592	I respect that, Mr. Chairman, but you are also and I think that the other parliamentarians should at least react to these words when they mention the 18th and that a seminar should be held for parliamentarians to behave. Mr. Novaković, in this very House, in this white room, wanted to ban a publicly spoken word, what you have the right to by the Constitution and by all European conventions. For the word that someone in Parliament says, it cannot be answered, and I have received the verdict in an indirect manner by Mr Novaković and I believe that MPs should, for the sake of their dignity and dignity of this Parliament, be fenced against such threats and warnings that the MP must not say his own, publicly speaking his word, without making a difference whether he is right or not. And about this, the coward's egg is being planted on me, in the sense that I'm defending the Bošnjak now, General, and that way whether I'm being fenced in a sense, etc. And he also said a certain verdict for those people. I spoke in terms of principle, in terms of reality. If a man from England or Africa came here to say something normal, not with extreme intentions like Mr. Novaković did. Unless SFOR gave consent, and he didn't give and he has some knowledge, or someone else in this country, that's the thing I'm saying let's process and let the line responsibility go. But I, as a Parliamentarian in this Assembly, in terms of some personnel and other games, in the sense that people are humiliated without distinctions that he paints, races, faiths, etc. I want to protect him. So that's how you understand me. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12593	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija. Let him prepare himself, Mr. Jović, and then Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12594	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Minister for giving us any opening exposure because we have so far had the opportunity to, on the same big subject, the appointments, no exposure, no Council of Ministers. This is in any case a major shift in relation to some of the earlier situations. Unfortunately, I, more than a month ago, why I say more than a month ago, asked the Minister, the Council of Ministers or the Presidency, why when the whole process began, was it true, then I asked whether it was true, then I asked the question whether it was true that the presidency had made a decision which, unfortunately, turned out to be true, that all the generals who were active generals in both the RS military and the Federation of BiH, could not be proposed for the general positions in BiH. I considered that decision then, if it was made, and now unfortunately I see it being made, so now I think it is. So I consider that decision the least wrongly said. I'm not going to use rougher words so that we don't open up the controversy over the equities and the past, because this isn't where the character of war is solved. The nature of the war is determined by relevant international institutions when we already do not have the strength to do so, and these are primarily the relevant UN institutions, the corresponding UN resolutions and the Hague Court, which have already given some assessments, that character of the war, but since the whole process is not over, there is no need for us to talk about it here today. I believe that this process has resulted in us having here four proposals and the truth is a little unclear what Mr. Potočnik was talking about, how it is four and seven positions because we realized from the media that there are more positions from the Defence Act that we have adopted, we have realized that it has more than seven positions. It's also not clear, here we're told that eight of the ten proposed received a pass or from nineteen, I'm not good at this, I get it. So those numbers would be nice if we got a little bit of clarity. It's not a problem here if these people are real candidates, whether they're candidates who satisfy, from what we have ahead of us and the many checks they've been through, I believe these are people who must be happy to be in these positions. I have no reason not to believe it, but I wish I had more information about it. But it's not a problem today, the more the process isn't over, whether these people are right or wrong, whether these are the right solutions. The question is whether a mistake has been made to some people and whether some people are being discriminated against and whether some people are being properly missed, that's what I'm calling it for the time being, that they're being put in a position not to be candidates today, and that's what I'm saying, especially because we haven't finished the process. So give it as serious people, let's try to stop at the ball, so we're not exactly 19 as a country team, so we can all run to it. We will break ourselves without need, to see what has been done so far, possibly wrong, if a failure has been made, to correct it and to stand by certain principles as Parliament with our respective decisions. That we are not allowed to do what is now objectively happening, which is that we don't actually know what the Presidency suggested, or what ESFOR said to him, or on what basis ESFOR said he couldn't do anything, or if he said he couldn't do anything at all. And if he said he couldn't, that's why he said it. And if he said what he said is behind it, let's see if it has validity in accordance with the Constitution of this country, the laws of this country, not entering into what is the mandate of the ESFOR in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement. So my proposal is, Mr. Chairman, that today by discussing this, we form some principles, we strengthen the right way for people who want to work for the benefit of this country, and I don't believe that anyone who sits in the institutions of this country today wants no good in this country. But objectively, some things seem a little bit like what a respected minister from the Council of Ministers would say, some things seem a little flimsy, to say the least. And let's see how we can make it right. I fully agree with all those who feel that we should not and fully agree with Mr. Novaković, who said that we must separate the participation of the people in the war. I don't want to open the controversy of their character at all right now, but I've already said what I think about it, and it's well known what I think and what others here think, that it's necessary to separate participation in war operations from their unhonorable participation. From the participation that resulted in war crimes, ethnic cleansing, genocide, and not using similar really small words, given what really happened and the big words if we don't want to see it. So, it's not correct, it's not correct that there are any of us, so I apologize here, Mr. Chairman, here I am looking at you, the two of us sitting in the Government of the Republic of BiH. Do we have the right to prevent someone from running for the post in general, which is why he participated in the formation of the Army of the Republic of BiH. Do we have a right? I don't think we do. But if someone involved in the Army of the Republic of BiH committed a war crime, he should be held accountable as a criminal, not rewarded. But someone who hasn't done it, someone who isn't involved in war crimes, on any basis, direct or commanding responsibility, has no right, we have no right, nor anyone in this country has the right to forbid him from being nominated for the proper positions in this country. That applies to all the other military formations that were here. If they were involved in a war crime, if the people who are running for the right places were involved in a war crime, they should end up where war criminals belong. And we very clearly need to form these principles here. I was expecting from Mr. Minister, well, I expected to get richer biographies but these are rich enough compared to some we had. Some of the people we had were so rich that when we saw them so rich, we turned them down. Maybe even now if we get enough rich biographies we might find something we don't like, but let's run a bio for a second. I expected something to be said here about the process that was taking place and the difficulties for which the overcoming needs the support of this 20 Parliaments. I would like to say that in my biography I am told whether these people are really citizens of BiH, for example. Look, maybe that's understood, but there's no reason not to write, so we can't be told if that's the case, for example. I'm just quoting it as an example. Also, for me, the question is whether some of these people who are, who are named to positions that are objectively two, three acts above what they are now. Is what they say this one, if I can answer that challenge. This isn't a war, so every soldier wears a marshal's bat or one of them is Napoleon. But I mean, there's a need for us to jump out of position too fast right now. I think this process has been misguided. I think it's incorrect that anything is wrong for the generals, for the active generals, for everything they're judged without trial that I can no longer be generals. That's what I find to be a bad presidency decision. I also think it's even worse, which is not respectable until the end. Because we could see that this decision was made, so then some members of the Bureau proposed generals and others respected their own decision, which is bad. I don't know who did the right thing, but the fact is both wrong. I don't think it's right if, we could from the means of information to see, that it seems to me that Subotić's name is no, this general being replaced because of Srebrenica, he was proposed, because of the Srebrenica report, not because of Srebrenica, because Srebrenica is once tried in The Hague and convicted of genocide, but this one was removed from the position of the RS General Staff Commissioner for Srebrenica 20 days ago. And that man we see in the paper was admitted but he was rejected because he was removed, on another basis. It's not possible that he was wrongly removed, I don't even get into it, but the meaning of what it is, it's that he's been proposed as a general, by the Presidency and Mr. Paravac has proposed him, he had reason for sure, I don't dispute that proposal, but Mr. Čović and Mr. Tihić, have not suggested, or have not suggested any active General of the Federation Army and thus practically violated the fundamental human rights and even the principles of judgment without court to the generals of the Federation Army. And now we have what we have. Also, now we have a situation in front of us that we don't really know which one of these is according to a different press. Some of these people are said to be, and I was expecting to hear something about it today, they were rejected, and they were rejected in two categories. One was rejected and they were told that they could remain generals in these lower positions now, and the others were rejected and at least they were told by means of information we see it, that they can't have not to stay there they'll be expelled from work and then they'll be left without a pension. That case that's public knowledge, that famous case, and there's more of it, with Sarajevo's special forces, who were thrown out a year and a half ago without the right to appeal from work, and now the competent court is returning them to work, and now we have an even more brutal decision to violate fundamental human rights. So these people now need a discretionary decision to be expelled from work and not only that, but to be taken away from them, to take away their social overpower, including the right to retire. It's nowhere to be found. And that's something this parliament needs to be read about today. Whether we will allow in the future and whether we will stand behind members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministers, when he gets a letter tomorrow or doesn't even get a letter but at the meeting they tell him, he can't, throw him out on the street. And 21, don't throw it out on the street, and leave it out of retirement. Explanation, we have our own methods, so can't do it. I therefore propose, Mr. Chairman, that there be some principles here, which is why I agree that there can be no progress for the General if there is an open trial against him. An open trial, and then a man can't advance for a general, I accept that. But if there's only open suspicion, or open court proceedings of any kind, you can't get a man from an existing function kicked out of work. If a man is not legally convicted as a war criminal, he cannot be deprived of the rights that belong to the citizens of this country. He saw you, the chairman, Mr. Novaković, waved to me as well. So I suggest three conclusions, Mr. Chairman, I'll give them to you in writing. The first conclusion, condemns any action taken by representatives of international institutions, participants in the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which denies the European Convention on Human Rights, the BiH Constitution and the laws of this country which, without a judicial process, take away work and social rights from any man. The continuation of this conclusion is given, the BiH institutions can't get out of work, or withdraw pensions from other social rights to anyone, without valid judicial decisions and only on the basis of the discretionary rights of any international institution. So that's the first conclusion that applies to everything a surrealist would say, from now on and beyond. If it wasn't already... Đuro, the surrealist, 15 years ago when he predicted war, is, well, surrealists, you don't remember Zoro. You're not young, you weren't even watching it. The second conclusion, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is asking the BiH Predity and the defence minister not to discriminate against active generals who have not sinned against the country's constitution and who are not being prosecuted by The Hague Court in the process of proposing and appointing the general. He doesn't have to propose them, but he can't, so let the Presidency take that shameful decision off... let them say we won't propose because we don't like them, so they're bad, because there are better ones, that's fine. Don't propose because he says he's a war criminal, he's wanted by The Hag, and that's fine, but if he just said you can't because you're a general now, he can't. That means this conclusion. And the third conclusion is to support all efforts leading to BiH's involvement in the Partnership for Peace, at the summit in Istanbul, and to ask all institutions to contribute to meeting the goal. That's exactly why this incomplete, the solution that we can discuss today is to accept, on the way to meeting the Istambul objective of entering the Partnership for Peace, here's how we talk. It's good to give young people a chance, it's good to have young people promoted to the brigade and the colonel, to generals with more stars, that's good, but it shouldn't go to the expense of quality and unaccompanied decisions. I'm gonna, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind giving you these conclusions so we can make a statement about each and every one of them per person. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12595	A word to Mr. Jović. Obviously, you have mentioned once seven times, this chairman, starting with the memory of joint membership in the government, which I am proud of just as you are, I will say that with a significant part of the discussion I really agree with and I believe that today's debate the House of Representatives should not be used only for formal confirmation, but also to point to circumstances in which decisions of all relevant in this process are made. And I believe that this question, not naming and confirmation, is one of the most important issues for all people in BiH when BiH institutions without whose international roles and checks will appoint people, BiH citizens according to constitutional competences and powers. We as a member of the Council of Europe not only have obligations, we have the right to do so. Unfortunately, we cannot yet make a step for ourselves to bring the Civil Constitution and that in this House only Parliament is responsible for the state of the country and respect for the law and not for any international institution with all its respect and respect, but that is another story, but here I will not use this, time for debate since it was mentioned, I was obliged to say it. Now he has the word, the replica was sought by Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12596	I'm... keeping his, uh, conclusions. I would very much support those conclusions and that Mr Lagumdžija proposed them when Mr Šarović was removed from the presidency. I think it's something higher than the position of some colonels, the brigade on certain duties, I'm pretty much not going to insult them, of course, but rather at a lower level than a member of the BiH presidency. Unfortunately, I haven't heard such a discussion from Mr. Lagumdžija. I have not heard such discussions many times when it is particularly characteristic of the Serbian Democratic Party, they did not get the international community's consent, for the positions they were proposed for. We were contesting it at the time, whether it is possible for the international community, whether the High Representative has the right to destroy fundamental human rights, so if you want to block the current bills to the MPs, just because I have to say again what Mr Lagumdžija said, not the founding means unconfirmed guilt, but the alleged guilt, it's done. Unfortunately, I have not heard it again, and for this reason it would really be correct when we discuss first and foremost to be principled meaning in our discussions always, and on the other hand when we talk about this point, then it would be fine if we had read the information we received, not just a decision of the Presidency in which a series of answers to the questions asked here, and also questions of the criteria used, if used by the Presidency etc. You had SFOR right or you had no right to do it, it's unfortunately a question beyond our ability at this point to decide, but in any case a very interesting question. 23 In view of what I said earlier, we cannot really support the first two conclusions of Mr. Lagumdžija. The third conclusion is acceptable to us and is not controversial, but the first two are not because they could not apply to these people, but because, in principle, these conclusions did not apply to some much more positions than these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12597	I thank Mr. Novaković. Replica, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12598	...but to clarify what I said, it seems that you do not understand or at least act as if you do not understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12599	Please do not clarify, you have the right to reply or to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12600	So I have to clarify my proposal, because a man rejects the proposal because he didn't understand it, so I think that's why I need to clarify it. So I made it very clear. There are three levels. In order for a man to advance from the position he is in, I accept that a man cannot advance to become a new general if there are grounds for doubt. A man cannot remain in a place where it is manageable if a valid trial is initiated. That's what the country's judges say when, when a man initiates, the prosecutor initiates the proceedings, the man resigns because a valid trial is launched. And the current level is when the verdict is just because you've been involved in the worst crime, then you can run out of stuff like retirement. So, in the case of Mr. Šarović, let me be very clear. First, Mr. Šarović has not been removed as well as you know him. The man resigned. And you know why he resigned. So, the thing is very clear. This means to Mr. Novaković that Mr. Šarović, after resigning, continued to be paid for a year as a member of the presidency, continued to have a car and all privileges, none of it was abolished, and at least his pension was abolished, which if Bog gave good luck and health to experience.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12601	...ovic, can it wait? He can't. Ivo forgive Mr. Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12602	I hope Mr. Lagumdžija's argument to him is the very explanation of his discussion, because I couldn't find what I discussed in his explanation. I guess this, uh, discussion of his own made a little bit of sense, and he was trying to convince himself that he was having a good discussion. It seems to me that some people here are timed for one class, when they take the discussion and then a lot of 24 can be said in 5 minutes and not say a lot in 40 minutes. I guess that's the point of the discussion. I don't need any further explanation, I'm fully aware of this, the discussion and I really don't need to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12603	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12604	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, for not having before this session of Parliament had a document that had information regarding the appointment of general positions. I just thought that this one paper that speaks of a shorter résumé of proposed people, for appointments and my discussion of this issue would probably be much shorter and different. But I see here what he would say otherwise than what his heart feels. There are no Hrvat out of four. Well, I thought Mr. Minister would say or find a place, why that fact here is what it is. It may be for a variety of reasons, but overruling that fact, I cannot miss, so I volunteered to confirm that I am a proud nationalist of the European chariot and a fighter in the fight against those who threaten the national rights of a nation. I've never been a chauvinist, nor will I be. I would like to say that a policy continues in a failed state in which the Hrvat are spoken loudly and throatly will not join the army, so they have received passports and today thousands are missing in the armies of Canada, the United States and Germany, and in this country our dear, beautiful BiH lacks 54% of Hrvat. Well, I guess someone's expecting to keep handing out passports for some other armies. This is the shame of a civilized world, which represents an international community, if it had not at least found a place for a man who would only look like the name of a Hrvat. A team before, in this statement, you have this information and a reserve, four more, and there are no Hrvat among them. So I'm expressing a huge fear in this country for the future of Hrvat, so please understand that I have at least the right to fear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12605	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12606	My colleagues and colleagues, I do not have the impression that we support this, we are speeding up this process and the possibility of BiH being admitted to the Partnership for Peace, according to the way of the debate, but here I am slightly different on behalf of the Party Club for BiH. So first of all, we agree with those who have concluded that this is a good way, that this is the correct relationship of the promoter to this Parliament. So, the promoter has an official representative, questions are asked, we'll be able to hear and answer, and in this way we'll have some things worked out, as well as this question that here is just being asked by Mr. Jović and some other people before. 25 So we want to point out that this is a good practice and ask for it to be in the future as well, and we will avoid some of the entities as mentioned here when it comes to the Commission for concessions. In the case of offers of conclusions and interventions, etc. We expressed our political position, namely our attitude towards behaviour, SFOR's procedure towards a number of people proposed, etc. We think that if we want to change things and obviously here it comes down to the fact that most MPs consider it a practice to be changed, when it comes to SFOR and the relation to candidates and people who propose, I think it must be opened, asked BiH President to open dialogue and debate on SFOR's instruction to the parties. So there is a document from SFOR to parties who are unimpeachedly empowering SFOR as the sole interpreter of the Dayton Agreement, when it comes to issues in the field of military, defence, etc. So we are more prone to this way, all these conclusions are, of course, understandable to me and heading towards democratisation, protection of human rights, etc. but it is a matter of efficiency, a question of efficiency and impact. I think this parliament should ask the Presidency to open dialogue on this topic with SFOR when it comes to the Party Instructions. And in the end, you can't get away from that termology, so on and so forth. I refer to the BiH presidency, which uses the term of the joint institution in its official documents such as this Decision on the establishment of a list of candidates for general positions. BiH has institutions or no institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12607	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. The word has Mr. Moranjkić. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12608	There's some problem with this technique of mine here. Mr. Chairman, allow me to present my participation in this debate questionably and all in the sense that today we contribute to solving these current problems from such an extremely important point of view for this country issues such as the defence of this country. I know we're under the adopted Defense Act, which we brought in as we are, relatively difficult, but we brought it in. And as much as I remember the content of this law here has many functions, there are many functions in me, I don't know exactly how many but which should be filled with senior officers that we see here have different treatments in terms of selecting and placing these people, which are questionable here for a complete almost this Parliament and I have left a normal something not clear and I see that it's not clear and most people who have taken part. And that's why I'm going to ask Mr. Minister who is present to give specific clarifications to what he probably didn't think he should give in his opening statement, so I'm asking. 26 Are these officers and those four still in reserve, all the fulfillments required by the consent of the international community and this Parliament? If so, I believe that these remarks that stand in the case of certain fellow Members are really standing, if they are not, then I am interested in why, on the part of one group, they are being put on the exam table and whether, as such, they will, individually, be brought to the table at certain times when they are chosen by the international community and then request the consent of this Parliament. Furthermore, I am interested in whether to Istambul, even though the minister mentioned it, will be able to achieve the whole issue of this reform activity at this pace, related to a very important area called the country's defence. And I'd particularly like to know if the minister can tell us where the problems are, if that's where the problems are. What we, like Parliament, should do through our committees as collectively as Parliament should, and in what sense should we orient our activities, so that this work in this important area will be brought to an end and that with a graduate exam from this area, we will come to Istanbul and continue our activities towards joining NATO and European and global associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12609	...prepared for Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12610	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Defence Ministers, esteemed colleagues, MPs, respected guests, it is very difficult today when we have the agenda point to confirm the list of candidates for the BiH institutions, not to open up perhaps much of the dilemmas that follow defence reform, but at the very beginning I would like to simply express my satisfaction with the way the new defence minister is, and it has been almost a month since his appointment, I have tried to speed up the process of what is called reform, defence reform in BiH, and here is my personal gratitude that he is here today in front of parlament, and tried to defend the views and results of this ministry's work. Someone has already said to me, Dr Lagumdžija, that this is the first time ministers have this kind of relationship with one of the Council of State Parliament, which I think is very good. What I would need today, in my assessment, is to support the efforts of the ministry and the ministry to speed up defence reform and not to do anything with our conclusions to get the process back to its very beginning. The conclusions can be understood as wanting to push for defence reform but can be understood in another way. In that sense, I would like to say that the SNSD Club will support four proposed generals, with regrets that others failed to complete the test. So, with regrets, but not for a moment doubting what the results of the check are. We regret that there is no home institution at the ministry and within the ministry, but I hope that this defence reform will also bring, which will be able to have preliminary analyses, not to allow politicians and senior state officials to make a mistake. So, the task is for the Bureau under the Constitution and by law to develop criteria and propose candidates, but what is symptomatic and what is not good, and whose result is not so bad, which of the 18th or the 27th? Out of 18, only 8 or 10 candidates have been checked. How can it happen that the most responsible people in the state, they don't know what they got in check, and that's the problem, and I think it's a good thing there are no war generals. I think there's got to be a new time, not just in the military, but in all the other services. So all the benevolents warn us that the time has come to renew the staff, that younger people come, who will not be wholehearted and I will be turned in years behind us, but will look to the future. And I don't think that's a bad criterion, even though it was predominant to have a renewal, nothing ugly is said about those who weren't, of course, candidates. So, I have no intention of having any ugly word, but it seems to me that it wasn't a bad criterion, the Presidency, although it may have been suggested on the side, but what I expected today, so I said a clear position that we would support those who have successfully passed the check with regret that we don't have domestic institutions that are doing the checking, that we don't go into a trap, and I expected someone to talk about it. But here's a letter from the ministry that was sent to both the Presidency and Parliament. This is where the conclusions are defined which want to return to circulation those who were not candidates at all. I agree that we can ask the Presidency to provide us with the criteria for running, so let's say that we're discussing whether it's a good thing there are no war generals or not. So, let's open up a political debate, but that's what I have to say, constitutional jurisdiction and legal jurisdiction under the law that we've adopted exclusively the Presidency. But here it is said in the check, so what matters is Parliament going to try to stir up a little bit of the conscience of other institutions? Now, in my view, this should be Parliament's task, he says, because, in the past, under quotes, they have committed acts that make them inadequate for service in the act of generals, which includes inadequate financial activities and suspicious loyalty to inappropriate political engagement, controversial ethnic qualities, impaired integrity and possible involvement in war crimes which disqualify them for the promotion of the rank of generals and requires further investigation, in order to establish a possible basis for dismissal, they did not get consent, Brigadier Slavko Puljić, Brigadier Vlado Đojić, Brigadier Ivica Pavić, Brigadier Safet Podžić, Brigadier Senad Mašović and Brigadier of Šerif Špago. So this is said in the control carried out by the institution that, in relation to this document that Mr. Beriz spoke of, was with our consent, so the BiH state is obliged to inform the promoters what he knows about these people. Is that what we regret today that they're not. Or he says four people have received information suggesting an emergency discharge because they are being investigated for involvement in war crimes, which is Brigadier Selmo Cikotić, Brigadier jasmin Šarić, Brigadier Goran Medić and Brigadier Haris Šarić. These four officers, etc. Goes must be far away, etc. I'm interested in the sheath, whether the competent state institutions, so this is now part of a check anyone can doubt, or not doubt, entered the process, asked for information, or this rests in an effort to make it happen through a political debate like nothing happened. The other thing is, are we going to admit once or are we building such an ambience, to choose generals, professionals. Well, it's not the government's choice. I don't know 17 ministers. So, in order for most of them not to cheat on each other, let's choose in the package. It is good that four were chosen and that the process was going, to help the minister and the ministry with the help of SFOR to move on, to choose the others, taking care of both nationality and professionality. 28 And I think, of course, that we can not vote for a single conclusion, but I will support the generals who have passed the check, by agreeing that as Parliament, we can seek criteria based on which the Presidency has made proposals with the Constitution and the law, noting that I am for a change of concept. God Bog that even in the Intelligence Service, the same principle, that those who did war with each other, were war-torn, could not lead a new service. That's the principle I stand for. There are other principles, I don't think I should argue with them, but I don't think this is a bad principle and it's against BiH. So nothing ugly, not wanting to say about the people who did their military duty honorably in the war. But what I'm saying is, a soldier's call must be made honorably, no matter what situation the soldier is in. And of course, it was at the beginning of the story that the nationalists of this country had not brought war. What did they bring her into? In a blessed peace in which more than 200,000 BiH citizens are now resting, they are blessed with mercy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12611	Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12612	...which document says this, reads us the data, we have no such document as I see it. Whether the chairman or someone to explain to us... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12613	I don't know, I'm sorry if fellow MPs don't have the document that I have but it's a document in materials for this agenda point. It is called this, BiH, the Ministry of Defence, the Joint Commission, the Parliament of the BiH Assembly, the Information on the examination of candidates for the general duties of the BiH defence system. So that's the information we got with all the materials. Well, then there's something, so I'm sorry. I have information not because I'm co-chairing, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12614	I, I suggest that services, if they don't distribute this, it was about deadlines that are very tight and so if you didn't get this information that came to the Joint Commission. Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić, for the intervention. Mr. Živković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12615	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I ask a few questions to the Minister and I would like to suggest one conclusion, I would like to express my disdain here for the way we are considering this topic, and it is all caused by one 29 I would like to say in an indolent position of our Presidency which in an irritable, illogical manner refers to this Parliament. I will remind you of several items that have occurred, which is when we discussed the document in this House on foreign policy, so no one has been from the Presidency. When we discussed the budget at the finance ministry's proposal and discussed points and items where the presidency was increasing, no one from the presidency was there. And here we have a situation at the back when the defense minister's proposal is proposed by the candidates, and no one from the presidency is there. Why don't I agree with the way we disintegrate? In all these things that I've cited to the agenda points, the ones that were there, they couldn't answer our question. They couldn't answer our questions as to why the foreign policy we returned in the direction of the document, and... it never came here again, was not included in our proposals. They didn't answer the question why the increased items in the presidency budget were increased because the finance minister couldn't answer that, and here we have a situation today, that no one can answer us the way members of this committee are proposed and how the minister can choose his associates. And so I would ask the question to all of us, as far as we are going to be able to bear this view of the Presidency towards this House, especially if we are aware of the fact that a member of the Presidency has been voted out of this House, and as far as I can see in the future, and we will soon be able to vote again for someone from the Presidency and ask the question of the Minister, who is behind these candidates? Whether in the near future if there is a problem, it is a problem issue, you will be responsible or be responsible for representatives of the international community who have checked these candidates or will be responsible members of the Presidency, whose proposal we are considering today. One of your expert opinions, given that we could read from the newspaper that the Republic of Croatia will not be invited to Istanbul, membership for Partnership and Peace and NATO, and we know that it is in these processes as well as in the accession process(?) in the EU, much further away from BiH, how do you appreciate our situation for us to be invited to join NATO in Istanbul? As far as the conclusion is concerned, the conclusion concerns what I said earlier and is in a desire to improve co-operation between BiH institutions. Members of the predsjejdništvo are called on to attend meetings of the House of Representatives when they are on the agenda of proposals or decisions sent by the BiH presidency. This conclusion would be just one warning and our relationship and attitude to the Presidency, so that we would not go to something called the decision of this Parliament, where in the Constitution of BiH, Article 5 of Rule 3 under d) concerning the responsibilities and obligations of the Presidency states that they are obliged to implement the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly. This conclusion would be just a little warning and a call to the Bureau to come to meetings to discuss and discuss the proposed topics better. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12616	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković, let Mr. Bešlagić be prepared, so Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Zorić, that is the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12617	Novaković finished
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12618	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić tells them, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12619	The respected chairman, respected colleagues, I am indeed giving full support to the minister in order to meet all conditions for BiH to meet the requirements for joining the Partnership for Peace. Therefore, I also consider proposing candidates today, four of the seven I understand from the minister, we need to adopt to speed up the process. However, I was deeply touched by the discussion of counterpart Mire Jović who said there were no Hrvat here and based on these materials we have now received, we see that the means of the first candidates who were proposed were rejected. I'm interested, and I'd like the minister to give us an answer. Did the Bureau then propose the following candidates? And if so, can we get an answer as far as this process is concerned? And if not, who of the Bureau did not propose candidates and can't take that responsibility then, this Parliament could not assume responsibility if one of the Croatian or Bosniak or Serbian presidency did not propose candidates. I mean, it's a question of where I'd like to return responsibility to those who should have done it. If they are, then I think that's a question for... thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12620	I thank Mr. Belkić for his suggestion and the proposal absolutely in place, Beslagic, I apologize. Excuse me, Mr. Bešlagić. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12621	Thank you very much. I think that after the delivery of this paper that we at the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy had, it was clear to everyone that the competent authorities, therefore, entity defence ministers, state defence ministers, the presidency sent candidates from all three peoples to check in ESFOR, that all candidates in the Serb people's order were agreed that all candidates from the Croatian people were rejected and that candidates from the Bosniak people were divided by the opportunity, 40% received consent and 60% did not win. In doing so, we must keep in mind the ESFOR evaluations. The fact that the Dayton Agreement and the Instructions as set out in this letter give the ESFOR Commander 31 unimpaired authority in interpreting the Dayton Peace Agreement in the area of defence, therefore in the military section, does not mean that the agreement can be interpreted in a way that violates fundamental human rights and freedoms. The Bosniak people's candidate is talking about processing for war crimes or losing credibility. It is the fact that before checking into the ESFOR, a letter was received from The Hague, candidates from the Bosniak people, and the fact is that neither one of them is being investigated, that several evidence has been filed against one, but they were not adequate and the application has been rejected. So these are the facts. What does it mean if that doesn't work now, because the rules of the Roman road insist on conducting an investigation into the UN tribunal's approval, now it's going with a new qualification, so it's said to lose credibility. Then we would have to put a new definition of losing credibility in our laws and say that every one of us, who was sent up with any charges, the data was correct, we were incorrect, that we lost credibility because, against us, there is such an application, regardless of which it is not relevant under the law. Also, no one has given the right to anyone, no international organisation to violate the International Civil and Social Rights Treaty, it is clear in some of our laws, as in the Elections, who has no active voting right, who has no passive, but nowhere is it prescribed that someone can stop working, can not but be ordered to leave the service, so without the right to retire, so without the right to appeal, etc. As far as the act of the defence minister is concerned, I really support him, and I believe that the appointment of these four men as generals is a big step towards fulfilling our mission for the Istanbul Summit and the SDA Club will surely support each day if one is to be met as soon as possible. However, before we conclude this item on the agenda, I ask you to actually propose to the House of Representatives, to adopt the next conclusion. I think it's absolutely in the direction of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, in connection with the procedure for verifying candidates for general positions, carried out by ESFOR, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives requires relevant international institutions to set objective criteria for the assessment of individual persons, for cases where those organisations assess candidates for individual positions. These criteria must respect: First, the rules of the Roman Way, for alleged violations of international humanitarian law. Whether he insists on investigating, whatever it is, this is an explanation of the proposal for a conclusion, but the rules of the Roman Way have told all about cases of suspicion of violations of international humanitarian law. Second, persons can only be found guilty on the basis of the judicial verdict of the competent court. On the basis of nothing else, and 32 Third, the movement of pean and social rights, including labour rights, can only be pronounced if specific behaviours are provided for by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12622	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Wrong quote, Mr. Špirić. Have Mr. Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12623	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that it's already clear that those who suggest that by any chance check those who suggest that all the generals on the list get consent. And once again, after this warning from the SFOR check, all congratulations to those who did the check and General Packet, bravo. Are we ready after all this, I'm looking at how to defend the people that the memo says urgently from the military, because that future time, is that the time we want? Is it necessary for the authorities of the state to act, to seek information, to give political consent to it as Parliament or to defend it indefensibly? Eh, that's what gentlemen are slowing down defence reform and I want to support the minister that we vote for these four today. The rest of you, check it out. All the stricter checks for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12624	I thank Mr. Špirić. Replica, for a moment Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12625	I'm a fellow MP really this one, and I'm wondering how one day it got in the way of checking. So far, no one's bothered with any background checks, no one's checked, and no one's bothered with the grounds of constitutional, constitutional, like this, and I don't know, nobody's bothered. All of a sudden, he's in the way of checking. Well, you know, gentlemen, that today the World Bank gave to the press conference, or accused it of not adopting the Law on Higher Education of Croatians and Srbin. The Hrvat because they were against it, and the Srbin because they didn't accept education at the state level at the beginning. Well, please, gentlemen. So it's not enough to accuse people because they're guilty or because they're not guilty, but because they think so. But I'm not going to open those questions because this isn't the point of the agenda and there's no need, but please, I don't see, I've heard this story many times, not from these mouths, but from some other mouths, and it wasn't from anyone that was respected, not from those who are talking to her right now. So, I don't mind, for the first time here, I don't mind checking in, and I'm gonna say right now that the SDS Club is going to support the Minister's proposal for these four names, and it's going to support all the others who are going to check, so here they are proposed by the Presidency and the Defence Minister. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12626	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. I have to correct you, it's not true that no one has moved the questions of verification before, the competence to verify constitutional jurisdiction and, in principle, not to the person of this or that people, and I have repeatedly opened that question, but, well, obviously, when one synergy checks out that we're all being checked, we'll probably decide then to sit together and take responsibility, but we'll wait until that synergy checks out, what we're gonna be like. Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12627	Here, I'll go from this last one, I support checks but positive. So, what does checking mean? Checking means letting everyone be checked. For example, it is said here and that is what I agree with this one, I don't know if Lagumdžija or my colleague Belkić talked about. So why don't you let the generals get checked out. Well, we've got a lot of junior generals fellow Špirić, I don't know this one colonel who's 58 or 57 years old, if it's about youth. dkle, I'm not up for positive discrimination at all costs. Quality of checking that and immediately at the beginning to say that we from our club will support these candidates regardless of what is not this, which has not passed the check or has not been proposed by the relevant Hrvat for the general position although I have the information that some of the proposed Hrvat do not know, the Kragujeva school, and I am surprised that he did not pass because such Hrvat are very easy to pass through all possible checks. I'm not saying that Krag school sucks. I didn't mean to say that at all. And when I was looking for some criteria for these eight future generals, I came from the bottom, so I thought the criteria, first settled in Banja Luka, then I saw it wasn't. Well, two kids, I found Mr. Sakib Forić, he's got one kid, everybody else has two kids. And then I noticed one thing in common, which everyone has, which is that they ended up in the Military Academy in Belgrade. Will in the context of what Mr. Jović said in general find the Croatian general, I do not know because the Hrvat have been so scarce in the military profession that all those who have finished the Military Academy, and I doubt that they are not all generals, and we have a second condition that the general can no longer take office at the Ministry of Defence. So, I'm afraid we're going to be in one situation that this is going to take a while and I support my colleague Palavrić and I said that our club will support these eight or these four that meet the requirements, but where is one principle. For the last time or for the last time, I don't know when it came to the SIP, so when we said, give it to reform, let's push this bill, so what difference does it make if we're going to determine the seat today or the day after tomorrow or in five days, then suddenly it was very important to determine that day's seat. And I agree, I said that our club and last time I said it was about principle, and that we are aware that it will not be in Oresje either, I'm talking about whether, a little bit and a deplacement about the SIP, but we are talking about principle in the front row, that it will not be in Oresje, so where is HDZ and where are the Hrvat most of them in I don't know the Knight, neither in Mostar, nor in the Grudas, but the principle of things are going to be and then we weren't ready to compromise. 34 So I would only say here that there is much in those conclusions proposed by Mr Lagumdžija, which I would personally support, and I would like to get these conclusions before we enter into this House, that I am not a proponent of the long debates, that we discuss them briefly and see what is acceptable to the entire House. Let's just say, for me, it would be a quick conclusion that the sooner we appoint all these officials, the sooner the Department of Defense works at full capacity, but again, I repeat not badly, and that's why my colleagues here asked me what we're going to do and how we're not gonna, uh, smart club but I said, we're going to back it up. It is always easier for me to support the generals or future generals of the Serbian or Bosniak people when I see that their people, their representatives and representatives here, support them. For these reasons, we will surely unanimously support these four or this eight, I don't know what we're pleading about because I have here a life of eight future generals. Anyway, so whether it's four or eight. But I'd like this one, not to stop, to finish Mr. Minister with this activity. I know that this is not just up to you, to speed up and to get to the quality I underline these quality, solutions because I would like Hrvat, future Croatian generals or generals in BiH by nationality of Hrvat, to be appointed as soon as possible if they are of quality and, later on, if they are not of quality. So, I'm saying this quite honestly and, uh, I think I share the opinion of all the club members, and I repeat, we'll support, I'd like to see the conclusions before we plead, if that's possible, if it's not possible to be one maybe lunch break or for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12628	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Replica Mr. Špirić. Did you, Mr. Lagumdžija, have a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12629	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12630	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12631	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll try.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12632	Kržanović, later
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12633	I'll try very briefly to just understand that me and my colleague Zorić are saying the same thing. So we have material where the authorised legal and constitutional proposal proposed 18 names, in which there are Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and that after checking, eight candidates successfully passed the check, and that the rest of them had objections. So the process continues is not this fight against Hrvat and Bošnjak, but some authorised proposer is proposing, and once the checks are passed we will vote in Parliament, so we will confirm what the check is. 35 So this wasn’t a fight, I at least didn’t realize it against any people. So the Constitutional Proposer proposed 18 and 8 successfully completed the check. So that's all I'm talking about, and I agree that everyone should go check it out. And it can be a session whenever you want, when the ministry informs us and the Bureau, that the procedure is over, we will vote to complete it. It's called reform. It would be best if everyone had passed the check. But unfortunately, what was happening in this country is what was happening and it would be best if we had a sense and responsibility for many, alone, not only in the military to withdraw, to release the process in BiH, but it is difficult to expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12634	Thank you very much. Zorić, replica, and Križanovic discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12635	Well, it's not a replica, it's a colleague's answer. I thought I'd rephrase to him, in mine, in my discussion, I didn't really want to deny any fellow Špirić at all. What I said was why not give the existing generals a chance to be checked. That's all I was saying, because at one point, you guys said you were against war generals, so someone got an act from 96 to today. So, I'm not this guy at all, in my debate, at no point did I replicate your discussion from a moment ago, and there's no need. I was getting along with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12636	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12638	Well, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12639	I am really not going to talk about procedures or criteria or checks, it has been said quite a bit, but I would like to join my colleagues who represent the position, that this Parliament contributes to faster reforms and, in particular, to meeting the conditions for the Partnership for Peace. However, I am not convinced that today we will accept the appointment of these four generals with nothing to contribute that we can show that we have met one of the conditions for the Partnership for Peace. As far as I know in the BiH Army in the Armed Forces, there should be 12 generals. We're talking about four today. I would like a concrete response from Mr. Minister, which we are getting practically from these four appointments, or this is just the process of appointments that we do not know at this time when he is finishing and whether he will arrive in time to meet those conditions before the Istanbul meeting. With respect, therefore, to this fact that is very important to me, I also join those proposals that today, when it comes to 36 defence reforms, we establish some principles on the basis of the proposed conclusions and that we are asking the Presidency and our Ministry of Defence for a final deadline to complete the appointment of General BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12640	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the second time, for the word offered by the letter we've received, I hope we've all got it, these three pages here, this information, is. Information signed by the defence minister. In fact, this memo is good that we got it because it's a little bit of this, it's put an extra light in the tunnel where we're objectively located. We can see here, Mr. Chairman, that practically 19 people were proposed, that it was two generals, 13 brigades and four colonels. We can conclude from that, that the Bureau's conclusion that generals cannot be proposed is not respected. And Mr. Zorić is and I completely agree with him, and already others have talked about not taking away the generals' chance to be checked if the predsjednštvo, the minister and the competent institutions believe they meet the criteria according to their findings. And then, if it turns out in the phase of checking that they don't meet any of this, then normally it's going to apply to them the principle that applies to everyone else. So one of the conclusions just went into that light. If one of the members of the Bureau wants to eliminate one or more generals for who knows what reasons, he should not hide behind the principle. Let him say that I won't, and let him explain why and get behind it. This is not correct to make a decision that virtually eliminates them from the ability to verify and those who consider themselves clean, meet the criteria and that they can pass. And that's the principle that I think we should adopt here today because it's going to open up the possibility, we have nine more places that remain vacant when we fill out this four today. Let's fill in the fours, which I accept we should do today. Everything we can do today, do, but see how we can't get back to... What can we also see from this letter? From this letter, we can first see that the International Community has powers here that it uses as much as it wants and whenever it wants. Mr. Novaković, the Council of Ministers in which I sat, did not undergo any checks. The Council of Ministers is appointed to remember Mr. Martin, we didn't ask for consent to anyone at all. Yeah, we didn't ask for a check and they didn't ask us to. Why is that, that's another question. What do I mean? They had the right to ask us to check, but they didn't. But there are some things that happen here that they do and they have no right. There is no right for ESFOR to seek what stands in the last paragraph, in the first pig on page 3 for the name of these four men. He says, these four officers must be away from the military service without the possibility of retirement or other benefits. A notification of their discharge submitted to the ESFOR Command until 15.05.2004. There's no ESFOR right to that. There isn't. Let's be clear. He has the right to say what he said here, these eight as far as we're concerned, we don't like these six. They have the right to say that, but they have no right to say, these four men for, beware, there have been information that requires an emergency discharge because they are being investigated for involvement in war crimes. All right. 37 Therefore, this letter brings to Zorić a little more light into what we have speculated, and therefore in that light, I agree with you that all the proposals of the conclusions that have been defined here, which we have divided to be finely ticking, and that we should talk a little bit and that if we are to meet, to see which of these conclusions can be acceptable not to allow us to discuss in the next session of Parliament in the same words, only other people use the words of some people from today. There's no need... There's no need for that. And that's why, Mr. Chairman, I think I want to make it clear here because there's no Mr. Špirić, the check doesn't bother anyone. Here we are resented by those of us who talk about it, no one mind checking out who they're entitled to. But it bothers us to work this way and to be very precise, Mr. Chairman, what seems to be a single number of healthy people from the age of 40, 50, with general, brigade acts. What's going on? We want to build here in the South American 1960s a general junta that will be on the street, making, dealing with organized crime, running a drug business, is that what we want to do? People who, is that what we want to do? This is a direct road, be careful, to send it to the street like this, without the trial of people who are trained to be skilled in the fight for the law, who are illegally pushed from the other side of the law. So what will they do in self-defense? And it's a skillful way, because that's why they're educated. What right do we have to send like this, so two people, these performances can make such an underground regional that we don't know what we're called here very quickly. That's how the Russian mafia was created. That's how mobs were created in what countries the collapse of the Soviet Union about South America would not speak again. So, please, it's too big a thing to push honest people from the other side of the law on this finding without a trial. And I am therefore asking that we share in the peace of these conclusions and that as serious people, we talk about all this, that we do not open processes that will certainly slow us down in 2 or 5 or 12 years or so that there will be no more repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12641	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. There are no more applications for discussion. So the obligation remains to give Mr. Radovanović the word and I give the word, to comment on the issues and comments of the MPs. There have been a number of legitimate demands and questions, related to the partial list and deadlines and structure and everything else and I think that indeed Parliament expects from the Secretary-General not only to praise that he is here, because we have communicated daily and jointly prepared this, because I want both Parliament and this House to be responsible for meeting the deadlines and meeting the obligations, and also the Minister and the Proposer must take full responsibility for this proposal and for the deadlines when they will complete this proposal. And I'm going to tie my statement to this one, gentlemen, and I expect to at least get a hint of when it will be. And after that, I'm going to suggest how I see this agenda ending, if you agree? Thank you very much. Mr. Radovanović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will speak in three parts. First of all, I am the first time, the truth in this House, and I must admit that I have learned a lot, I did not know in which way my fellow ministers applied or relations to my fellow ministers, but I do know that I will try all to ensure that the Ministry of Defence regularly delivers materials and information to the Joint Defence and Security Commission, in the hope that all MPs will be familiar with these materials in the internal procedure, and I hope that this is of common interest and of interest to the Ministry of Defence and for the precondition for your discussions, decision-making, taking views and understanding of the situation. Secondly, it seems to me that from both the frameworks of the discussion and all the criticisms and requests for further explanations, there is clear support for that proposal for conclusions that I have proposed, and I am pleased to see it. When it comes to specific questions, I hope that my answers will not open any more questions than the answer, and the dream is that it is a whole and very wide area and will require delivery and certain answers in writing. So when it comes to the number of positions in the BiH defence system, the BiH presidency's decision, which is legally responsible for establishing the structure and organisation of the BiH Armed Forces, provides for 13 ranks of the generals. Of these, 7 are at the defence institutions, at the state level and 6 are part of the defence system in the Federation of BiH and RS. Of which, in RS 2 general positions, in the Federation military or part of the BiH Federation 4 defence system and of these 7 at the state level, 1 at the Ministry of Defence, 3 at the BiH Joint Staff and 3 at the Operational Command. The Presidential Decision of 24.03.2004 established both the distribution and the positions belonging to the representatives of the generals in the order of each of the people and according to that distribution, so by that decision the generals of the Bosniak people belonged either to 5 general positions, to the generals of the Serb people 4 and to the generals of the Croatian people 4. When it comes to the same decision, i.e. the same session of the Presidency held on 24.03.2004, a conclusion was reached that the BiH presidency took the view that 7 positions in the state-level defence system would not be proposed and appointed by persons who were now or who were in the general's act at that time. The decision did not prevent those positions that were in part of the entity-level defence system from being proposed by persons who were then acting as generals. However, when the proposal of these 19 candidates came, and part of the issue went in that direction, there was a situation that all the proposed candidates, for state-level positions, were out of order, i.e. an act of the brigade, or equivalent of the colonel, while the proposals that came from the Federal Ministry of Defence from the Federation, were therefore again candidates with the rank of Colonel Brigadier and from the RS came proposals from persons from the then general's order, so with the rank of general. 39 So, the situation is the result of, for example, the discretionary right of the Federation of BiH or the RS and is not contrary to the presidential decision of 24 March 2004. When it comes to documents delivered by all candidates, which have been forwarded to the ESFOR Command, each candidate has submitted the following documents. First, the assurance of BiH citizenship, secondly, the uverenje Faith, i.e. the uverenje that the candidates are not under trial, further biography, the uverenje of high school preparation, a statement of willingness to perform duties in the BiH defence system at all levels and a declaration of commitment to the Dayton Peace Agreement and a statement of the material status of each of the candidates, so a financial picture of each of them. And that's the data that's been delivered to the ESFOR Command. When it comes to the criteria used by the ESFOR commander in the candidate's verification, they are in Chapter XIV of the ESFOR Commander's instructions to the parties based on the powers given to the ESFOR commander in Annex Ia of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and who say that the ESFOR commander is the supreme and ultimate authority to interpret those issues that fall under the general framework agreement. And here they are already read that there are essentially two groups of criteria. One group of criteria are the issues that lead individuals to a situation where they connect for war crimes and according to this instruction, such persons are immediately moving away from the armed forces. Another group of criteria concerns political action of membership in political parties, unauthorized economic or financial activities, as well as statements that can be treated as a show of loyalty to the BiH Constitution and BiH as a state. I would like to say according to the interpretations delivered to the Ministry of Defense, that this case was about a more strict check than before, because it was true that the persons had been through this check before and that it involved activities from 1992 to the day of the check. Therefore, it is not only war activity or war-related activities, but also behaviours, statements, actions, and non-actions during the service of each candidate and during this Dayton period. When it comes to four candidates, I understand that these are four appointed and four people who have passed the most rigorous check of all persons presently in the professional military service or defence system, and on the other hand I would say that it is very likely that there are no elements that can indicate that they are politically active in any way, that they are members of political parties or that they belong to any of the categories that are disputed in the manual and which are in the jurisdiction of the ESFOR commander and I think about them, and I was glad that so all of us in BiH are thinking about people who are probably the most conditionally said, most reliable in this system of ours, and I think that's good. Who's behind the candidates? The candidates were proposed by two ministries. The RS Ministry of Defence, the Federal Ministry of Defence, with candidates being discussed on the subject of a background check, which is an experience that I have had and before the appointment of the generals, has been announced that it will be the same or by the same criteria as 40 checks for high-ranking persons in the defence system. And on the other hand, every candidate, and especially future candidates, will be aware that by running for such positions, they can be put into a situation that they do not go through, with interpretations as they are at the moment, but that it is in some way a personal risk and a willingness to enter into such a single procedure, whose outcome, if it is positive, allows them to carry out the most responsible duties in the defence system in a credible manner. When it comes to the question from this group of about four candidates delivered from the order of the Croatian people, I would say that in this case only since it was proposed in the first version that two candidates are proposed for each position, and therefore the generals of the Croatian people belong to four positions, so they were expected to propose eight candidates. First candidate and backup just to avoid the situation if we were to run out of potential candidates for a certain position. For some reasons, however, the BiH Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry received only one candidate for each of the four possible positions. So I understand that the four candidates we hope to vote on here today will be if they are assigned to those functions or those positions for which they were proposed. So, none of them, if they get confirmation, this House won't take someone else's place or place for which another candidate was proposed, but will just be placed in those positions for which they were in the initial variant and proposed. This leaves the possibility that in the second round of verifications for the six persons still in the test category, if some of them get a positive response and consent in the next procedure, they will therefore be able to be confirmed and placed on those functions for which the original basic proposal of 5 April has been nominated. When it comes to the part of ESFOR's decision on retirement, it has been the subject of a copy of mine according to the ESFOR commander and the latest, the result of which is either an order delivered to the Federal Ministry of Defence, it is such that the right to retire or to retire, a right which has been acquired as such and cannot be abolished by the administrative decision of the ESFOR commander. So, these faces, we both have a duty to me and the federal defence minister to carry out the discharge procedure, but they won't be taken away from retirement, nor will they be by administrative measure, the decision stated they don't have the right to retire. Another problem is that these persons do not have enough years to make pensions, according to applicable laws, etc. but what is the difference between the gear and the first decision of the ESFOR commander is therefore that the administrative decision cannot definitely deprive the acquired right of employment. When it comes to new candidates, therefore, there is a need to deliver candidates' proposals for nine positions, i.e. for eight positions to be more precise and, in that sense, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has delivered two candidates for the time being related to the position of head of the RS General Staff, since candidate Cvjetko Savić, by decision of the High Representative of 16 April, has been removed from that post and they have previously delivered two new candidates and these two candidates are in the process of checking in the ESFOR Command. 41 When it comes to other positions, the fact is that the BiH Federation defence minister has prepared a proposal for new candidates, and I expect them to be delivered to the BiH Ministry of Defence by the end of this week if this is the plan. And the sides, as soon as we receive the documentation, we will check the completeness of the documentation, taught by the experience from this first round, we will ask for additional information, if we already consider it necessary for those persons and for those elements from any of the documents for which the need is indicated, and after that we will deliver the ESFOR Command to a new round of checks. I hope that this time there will be a smaller number, or that there will be no candidates at all, which would then put us all in a position to deal with the fundamental issues of reform that we do not have to talk about and these topics that we are talking about after this first round. I cannot responsibly determine the deadline, when all the generals in the BiH defence system will be appointed, because part of this process is out of my control and refers to the results of the check. If we were to repeat the negative results after the second round, we would have to go, I don't know, in the further procedure, so I wouldn't have given myself the right here to talk about a concrete deadline, but in any case our goal is to fill both Joint Staff and Operational Command before the Istanbul Summit. What do you get with the appointment of these four candidates? It is possible that, since they are all at the state level, we are given the opportunity to have persons in both the Joint Staff of BiH and the Operational Command at the executive functions and then further enables them to go into the fill-up procedure and the two institutions, assuming that the appointment of the other persons from the two institutions, i.e. the command, would then allow the process to continue. When it comes to the future of reform, I would like reforms to be thought of in a way that this is the beginning of a process that I don't think will end. Modern countries in an environment that is changing as rapidly as it is changing, and even the richest, have problems to overcome their security needs and security systems, with the real environment and the raffle part of the reforms, so it aims to make and meet the steps adopted by the North Atlantic Council of NATO in December of last year, and to set out certain measures, indicators of our system's state until the 28th of June until the NATO Summit in Istanbul, but beyond that, the very serious process and the fill-up of institutions and training of persons employed in those institutions until the development of a whole series of documents, acts, procedures, training and everything else can function. So I'd say Istambul is just one of the passing points in this whole process that I'm free to say that I think it's going to be an eternal topic and that it won't repeat the system from the Cold War when the defense systems have been stable and haven't changed in years, this is about constant changes. What are our assessments of our options at the Istanbul Summit? It is known that there are two groups of conditions and according to current signals coming from Brussels or the government of NATO members who can and will decide on what kind of candidate we are, there is practically a consensus that this reform and technical part is happening at an appropriate pace and that BiH already has a system that is 42 on many elements equal or even by some elements better than some countries that have been in the Partnership for Peace for a long time, and that, deciding to assess BiH's relationship with the International War Crimes Court in the former Yugoslavia. And on the other hand, I am prepared and I can say that here, too, to say that I accept the possibility and that, in addition to all the efforts and all this, we are not invited to join the Partnership for Peace because this is not a matter of our will, but rather a matter of discretion and sovereign will, the 26 governments of the NATO member states. Finally, several questions related to the House's obligations in terms of assistance to speed up reforms were raised. I think it's good to say that out of all 14 or depending on how many conditions are involved in defence reform, the first condition that was fulfilled was fulfilled by you through the establishment of a Joint Commission or a Defence and Security Committee. And it's already one of the indicators and relations of this House to reform. I've had the chance to appear three times in front of the Joint Committee and to interpret and explain and answer questions about reform, and that's what I think is important to you. The other thing that matters is that there are in fact very few obligations left concerning the Parliamentary Assembly directly. So, I hope there will be just one more round of this debate concerning the appointment of the remaining generals, and it will likely be necessary to declare several laws or sublegal acts dealing with foreign armed forces' presence in BiH territory, based on a bilateral or other contract that is not under the Dayton Peace Treaty and on the engagement of the BiH Armed Forces outside BiH territory. So, I am pleased to say that there is not much obligation or need to have this House on some additional or special found except for regular procedures supporting the BiH defence reform process. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12643	I thank Mr. Radovanović for this truly comprehensive and competent final presentation. I don't think there's any need to comment on this final presentation of his. She asked me for a break, Mrs. Palavrić, or a word if you'd like? Here, if you'll excuse me, I suggest the next way to conclude, before the break, allow me if you can. So we've closed the debate. We have demands that the conclusions be shared in writing. I appreciate that there have been quality discussions and quality proposals and that we must respect the requirements to discuss them and make a statement about them. As we can see, no club has questioned this list. I suggest that, before we break, we make a statement about the Bureau's decision and confirm this list, not conclude the agenda point, but continue this one, with a statement of conclusions after the break. That's my suggestion. I think it's constructive, a college that the College accepts, and then we would still determine the length of the pause. Now it's 15 to 1, one hour, maybe we could continue 15 to 2. 43 He asked for the word Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12644	The microphone.... wanted to propose to the chairman perhaps that given these conclusions, perhaps we should give our conclusions to the commission, because so far, we have done so often. Let's give the commission and give the commission at the next session, because they don't concern themselves, actually, but they're not related to this decision on these four.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12645	Can we discuss this when we get back, that might be one of the suggestions. I mean, excuse me, Mr. Lagumdžija, I think I really have made one proposal that can satisfy the whole debate. After the break, we can decide how to treat the conclusions. I think, as chairman, that today we must, in addition to confirming this decision, order something to the public and competent institutions, and whether further debate will be held in the commission, that should not be excluded. So nothing's off. I suggest that we now make a statement about the decision, and that we proceed after a break about everything else. Can we do that? Thank you very much. I would like to ask the representatives just a little bit to vote on the Presidency's decision to set out a list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions and vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12646	Again, vote again you have time yet
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12647	Please, we need to agree to this, that this time sign I'm giving and that we respect it. Thank you very much. Please vote again. Vote now. Okay, I understand that with 36 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority of the House of Representatives confirmed the Presidency's decision to appoint candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions and so on: 1. Brigadier Rizo Pleh, on the duty of the BiH Ministry of Defence Inspector General, 2. pukovnik Miladin Milojčić, acting Deputy Chief of the Joint Staff of BiH for Resources, 3. Colonel Mirko Tepšić, acting as Deputy Commander of the Operational Command for Operations and Under 4. Brigadier Sakib Forić, acting as Deputy Commander of the Operational Resource Command. 44 I thank the MPs, thank Minister Radovanović. I wish him a successful performance in Brussels tomorrow and I'm setting a break until 15 to 2. Thank you very much. ... The agenda. Here I have further consulted with the College and within the College, and it is our assessment that all the conclusions that have been made here are serious and that they are either asking for one substantive discussion and precision of the text, which would take us too much time, and therefore the College proposes that we direct these conclusions to the commission, to prepare them for us by the next session and then adopt them as a special item of the agenda. I think it's a constructive conclusion. We still have laws, and if you agree, it doesn't deny the possibility that next time we can also discuss the situation, but I think we could accept this. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12648	...I think everyone is in place, but given that there have been several remarks here and in the context of the human rights of certain categories of people, it might make sense to see if the Human Rights Commission has any business here. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12649	Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12650	Here I also support that this is going to the commission, but it might not be bad in this context if it went to both committees and if this, I've been looking at these conclusions a little bit, this doesn't suggest those three conclusions, please, I'd say, and our club bids at least two. So it would be good for him to be there and to be on the neighbor when he touches the proposals of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12651	I propose that we also deliver the conclusions to the Commission in common, let the Human Rights Commission deliver them to us individually, don't oblige them, uh, we'll consider their reports on these conclusions next time. Can we do that? Should we vote? Please, we'll vote. The Joint Defence and Security Commission, because it was considering this one as competent. Please make a statement after all. Vote now. With 26 votes for, 19 from the Federation, 7 from the RS, 1 against, 2 abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has accepted the conclusions, yes, the conclusion that the conclusions, together with the 7 presented in the debate on the third item of the agenda of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and the Commission on Human Rights, and that 45 of these committees for the next session, please conclude, that we are not delaying, prepare a report on these conclusions. Thank you very much. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, following a hasty procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Bill with a request for a shortened procedure, delivered to you on 4 this month. You've won the bill. This is about approving the procedure. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare itself on the request of the Council of Ministers, to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please vote now. I therefore conclude that, unanimously, with 28 votes in favour, the House of Representatives accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I thank the MPs. We're going to point five, that's Ad.5. The proposal for a law on the High Prosecution Board of BiH, in its first reading at the 32nd session of the House, adopted the procedure under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 16/04. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has delivered an opinion to us on the 4th of this month. It's about first reading. As competent, the Commission adopted 12 amendments. Following the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we received an amendment from representatives of Ivo Mire Jović, who refutes the amendment of the VII Commission and proposes an amendment to Article 72. A bill of law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. On behalf of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12652	They have two amendments to Ivo Mire Jović and Petar Kunić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12653	Here in this section, please send me the amendment of Petar Kunić if it is delivered in time, and it seems so. So we have two amendments to Mr. Ivo Mire Jović on Article 72. Proposal for a Law and Mr. Petar Kunić on Article 18 A bill of law. On behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the word was sought by the chairman, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In a written report by the commission that we got, the commission said what it had to say and I think it's correct just to point out a few let's say technical mistakes that have been subdued and ask you to respect that. So in two introductory sentences, this one before the amendments itself, the word of the law is missing, the bill of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and Amendment V is about the spelling of this, this is why I wanted to point out just that, and as much as it's looking out for these things, it's moving. And otherwise as far as the law as such is concerned, as you have seen, and today we are talking about the bill's proposal in the first reading, supported the principles of the proposed law, of course, maybe some of the amendments that we have heard about here we have also heard about disputes but have achieved a high degree of consent. So, with these technical errors being pointed out, the proposal is for the commission to adopt the law of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12655	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who's answering for a word? There's no record of a hearing. I ask the House of Representatives to be declared in the first reading on the Proposal for a Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12656	Repeat the vote. Someone's cast a voice before.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12657	Okay, we'll do it again even though it's adopted unanimously, there's a majority of those who voted, so here, unanimously, there's nothing controversial. If you accept, but I think it's correct. Thank you very much. I suggest that Dom plead whether we discuss it today in another reading. I'm asking the House to plead by voting now. So with 24 votes for, from Federation 20 for, 4 from the RS. We agree on whether or not we're going to, like the College whether or not we're going to go to another reading. All right, hold on a second, please. I'm sorry. I'm asking the Federation's representatives to vote against the plea, and now we're going against the vote. 47 Vote now, if anyone mind. So no votes against the Federation, supported by a proposal to go to another reading under this law. I ask the representatives of the RS to vote on this request for a second reading, a counter-proposal, vote now. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12658	I'm just saying that the reason I'm voting against is because there's no amendment to explain it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12659	Okay, thank you, Mr. Špirić. We therefore accepted that today's debate is also being held in the second reading on the Proposal for a Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. I am opening a debate on amendments submitted by MP Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Petar Kunić. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state first on the amendment of Petar Kunić, as he is an amendment to Article 18. First, please state by voting now. So this amendment didn't get the required majority either. Mr Petar Kunić has an alternative in this amendment for Article 1. I think it was, to know that it was that simple for the Legal Commission. Please, yes, do you have this amendment in front of you. Please state now about the alternative to this amendment submitted by Petar Kunić. Vote now. So this amendment, Mr. Petar Kunić, did not get the necessary majority. We move on to a statement on the amendment of Ivo Mire Jović. This is an amendment to Article 72. A bill of law. Please state by voting the amendment of Ivo Mire Jović. Please vote now. With 15 votes against 6.7 abstentions, with 10 from the Federation, 5 from the RS, I find the amendment has passed. 48 I ask you now to make clear on the Proposal for a Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutor's Council and in the second reading. I ask the House of Representatives to plead. Vote now. With 30 votes for, no one against, 1 abstention, I also find enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives passed the Proposal for a Law on the High and Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH both in the first and second readings. I thank the MPs. Moving to point six, that's ad.6. Proposal for a law on litigation before the Court of Justice of BiH in the first reading We also adopted the request of the Council of Ministers for the procedure under Article 104 of the previous law at the 31st session. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is competent. We received his opinion on 16.4. on the constitutional and legal basis and the report on 4 May. There were no amendments at the commission stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House of Representatives to make a statement by voting on the draft law on litigation proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH in the first reading. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without votes against, without blasts of abstention, we adopted the proposal for a law on litigation before the Court of Justice of BiH in the first reading. I ask the House to state whether today we will discuss this law and in another reading. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against, we accepted that the House be declared in the second reading of this law. Since there have been no amendments, I ask you to make a statement as a whole about this law and in the second reading. Vote now. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives unanimously with 32 votes for, no one against, no one abstention adopted the draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of BiH and in another reading. Thank you. 49 We move to the seventh point, that's Ad. Seven. The proposal for a law on the mediation procedure in the first reading and this legislative proposal was followed by Article 104. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as competent was given to us on May 4th. The Commission adopted 12 amendments. In the plenary phase, by calling for Article 94(3), we received an amendment from MP selo Bešlagić. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the mediation procedure in the first reading. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12660	Perhaps on behalf of a colleague and fellow gentlemen, chairing perhaps on behalf of the Constitutional Legal Commission there is no need to say anything. The report says what's said. So this one, I'm referring to that report. In any case, I want to say in my own personal capacity as an MP that only two, three things I stress when it comes to this law. It is necessary to pass the law because the interdepartmentary here, this mediation process, the interdepartmentary here and the Law on a litigation procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH, other entity-level laws and the like, so that one procedural, procedural, should be given the opportunity to tell parties in a dispute, as well as the possibility to use positive things of such possibility, it is necessary to pass this law. With regard to the law and principles on which it was based, it was true for the will and within the Constitutional and Legal Commission of different dilemmas, some of which are concrete proposals to improve the text that are here and incorporated into the report itself, or the amendments adopted. I personally had a dilemma that I did not truly express through amendments all, but a significant number of my amendments were adopted and I thank my colleagues in the Constitutional and Legal Commission for such an approach. One of the dilemmas was just that, so I don't question the law and its principles, but I want to share it simply from a professional angle by looking at it. Namely, there is no question that we should have a list of mediators. It is not disputed that associations can be formed for this area, some of which have already been formed, or we have formed an association. My personal dilemma of professional nature, i.e. professional nature, was whether the list of mediators should be obtained through the Association of Citizens or a list of mediators should be obtained on the basis of an act of a certain state body such as this, as said by certain experts, experts in some areas whose services to say are also used in court proceedings etc. Some of the thoughts were that perhaps the solution could be, that it would be an act of the ministry which would respect the fact that some BiH experts in the meantime have been able to do this sensitive job, a very important job, that at the same time they formed an association for the 50 area and possibly verifying it from a level of, say, the Justice Ministry or a state body would be a more important approach, rather than possibly as proposed in the law. But given the fact that the law is really necessary as soon as possible, in order to take advantage of the positive side of this approach that is if you want, although not a completely new institute in our country, because we in the area, say, this, vice law or in some even civil issues at lower levels before it comes to court we had some kind of mediation through the peace council or attempt to calm down, etc. So it's not entirely about the new institute, but now it's about the news that this, an act that is within this framework and with the help of the mediators, an agreement that is being reached at the same time and an executive title, is about this, because it's not about a completely new institution, and it's about taking advantage of it, I plead to it, to make an effort today and to adopt the law. The truth of the will, some of the dilemmas that have been tabled before and before the amendments tabled, have given rise to the reason for perhaps a little re-thinking in those relations in which the Constitutional and Legal Committee has been discussed, and that this one, too, is considering new perhaps additional arguments in favour of some solutions that are now constructing what has been adopted in the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Since I am currently speaking, therefore, in personal capacity and not this, defending this, the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, I must say that also in this capacity, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has nevertheless very carefully analysed this law, even delaying the debate, tried to obtain a new argument for some views, contrasting views, etc. Which means she made one very, very serious effort at all. In conclusion, this discussion seems to me to make sense at least now, perhaps, to make an effort to reach the law today, so that this important issue and one part of this law, on the litigation procedure, is not actually possible, although it has come into effect. Well, that's what I was going to say as an MP. The amendments that have been made are therefore not baseless, they are not without basis in some way, although we have tried to think in a general way in the commission and in a way that at the same time confirms that the Law on Mediation is a lex specialis in some way in relation to the Law on Procedural Procedure but a law that would transfer jurisdiction from this area to the association in this area would again be a lex specialis according to this Lex specialis law. Maybe, there's an argument, and I really have to show it here, that I shouldn't, I say, maybe there's an argument and that's what I need to pay attention to, and I especially expect from colleagues who have dealt with this issue, now by this law, to re-enquire the adoption of another law. This may not be until the end consistent, but it seems to me that it means more complicated further legislative procedures. With this I just wanted to point out and ask my colleagues to pay attention to this issue, so that we can really get to the quality of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12661	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Next is Mr. Novaković. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12662	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, uh, I would like to say first that as far as the mediation process is concerned, he is not controversial. So, mediation is needed and nobody slows it down. What is contentious, and it seems to me that it can be interpreted and as a principle although it is not suggested by the promoter as a principle, is the way in which these tasks will be done which he has spoken of in some way or which in most parts was touched by Mr. Ćeman. Namely, the first version of the law to be returned to the amendments and Mr Bešlagić, means that we define the association or institution that will deal with it immediately. That's absolutely unacceptable to me. So I'm going to take just one example, I've proposed the Law on the Auto Moto Alliance of BiH, which has not passed on the principles of the commission. The argument, that it is the Association of Citizens, means that it is principles but it is not a cass... that it is an association of citizens whose role and way of forming is defined by the Law on Associations and Foundations, and that the tasks that this alliance can carry out are entrusted to the State by a special regulation. Therefore, the State places these tasks in the jurisdiction of some, whether they or some other institution by special law. I accepted it as such although I find it not consistent with the fact that the Red Cross Act is not in such a way, although it is an association, it is not in such a way defined. Here the law stipulates that the existing association of mediators, which formed no matter who, so I'm talking about the first variant of the law, was meant to be practically doing these mediation jobs. Or that it suggests mediators. Why can't I accept that? First, I cannot accept it because this association directly worked to create this law and put itself into law, and even in Article 31, this one, gave itself the right to establish a training programme for mediators and other organizations, means not the state, not the ministry, but this same association, which in such a way selects immediately at the beginning of possible mediators. Article 33 of the first version of the law even proposed a provision giving a 90-day deadline to the association to adopt the necessary acts, beware, this is not a law on the association of mediators, but a law on the mediation procedure. We can't impose this law on the association what it needs to do. That's, absolutely unacceptable. What is also unacceptable to me is the fact that I have no record of that association, so I don't know if it covered the entire BiH territory. I don't even know how many mediators there are or where they are. I don't know, not if you want a national structure of mediators who have centres etc. Because of all this, we will support the law in principle and we will not vote for Mr. Bešlagić's amendments, and I must say, of course you will not get me wrong, this is no threat, if we are given jobs to this law to this association, we will not support the law, regardless of all the advantages and full awareness that we need the mediation process. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12663	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who wants to move on? Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12664	You see, I think that you should just read the law and these amendments that were accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and this first text that was in the proposal, they propose in this amendment 1 which, it says, is the mediation business of a special law passed on to the association established by the procedure of this law. I have suggested that this law regulates mediation procedures in BiH territory, and this is a special law on mediation. You will now have another law of mediation under this law. In other words, this is how you stall with the application of mediation. Now we have to wait for a new law to be made on the application of that mediation. The second amendment that was on Article 5 here has a further explanation, I don't think you should read it, we're just giving it concisely. This is where it's proposed not to call it the Mediator's Association. So what's it gonna be called? So you have a fishing association, the association of these, the association of those, and therefore, mediation as a mediation must have its own association. For these reasons, we believe that this very association of mediators, which was done at the level of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I can tell you that. Because I know in contact with people, seminars were held throughout the territory, from Mostar, Bihać, Banja Luka, Tuzle etc. And that's where people agreed on these mediations. Therefore, I can't put in an association of mediators, and I've never been a mediator nor will I be a mediator. Who can build an association? Same as the lawyers who make their own association, etc. For these reasons this amendment and here we have told this amendment III to return 90 days, because if it is not this law is a dead letter on paper. Someone has to prepare all this so this can change. Therefore, if it is adopted without this clause, I am telling you that this law will remain a dead letter on paper, because it is about to question who will prepare all of this for this law to function. Therefore, I have proposed amendments within the deadline and I ask the President to also declare the Assembly on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12665	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Anybody want to move on? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We should first determine ourselves according to the Proposal for a Law on the Mediation Procedure in the First Reading. I ask the House of Representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the mediation procedure in the first reading. 53 Vote now. Unanimity with 31 one vote for, no one against, no one abstention. We've adopted a bill on the mediation procedure in the first reading. Shall we make it clear that we're going to have another reading? I ask you to vote if we will declare ourselves today about another reading. Vote now. With 27 for, 4 against, no one abstention. We need to check the entity majority. No, we should go for a match. There's no Mr. Špirić. We'll leave another reading for the next session. Thank you very much. Ad.8. Report by the Committee on Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum on the state of human rights in the Arizona Market Report of the Commission you received. The Commission has adopted certain conclusions and measures regarding the problems related to the Arizona Market. According to Article 40(1) pog) of the Committee on the examination of petitions in connection with violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, adopting appropriate measures, it shall inform the House of Decisions adopted. In accordance with this provision, the House receives this report and can provide support, should be supported by the measures and decisions taken by the Commission. However, in the last session, we have delayed, due to the length of the duration, the discussion of this agenda item for this session, with a reason that we have more time to discuss this apparition. Here, I think we have a chance now. I'm opening a debate on this report. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, precisely a year ago, the Human Rights Commission received the presentation of the Association of Equally, with a complaint that the Brcko District was violated by its fundamental human rights, in its first work the right to property, the right to work, and I would say the right to live. At its meeting, the Commission formed a working group tasked with reviewing a bunch of materials that had already arrived in the Commission, and the working group, considering these materials, came to the realization that further information was needed to request a statement from the official authorities, asked for a further opinion of the Association straight, and then from the materials examined, which were not very small, there were over a hundred points, the working group came to the conclusion that it would be good on the spot to meet the whole case, I say a conditional case, because the Arizona Market is several cases, which vary both on a legal basis and on a material basis. 54 To this end, somewhere in November last year, the Commission visited Brcko District, organised by the Secretariat of the Commission, consulted all the structures of the authorities, meaning both legislative and executive and judicial and police, except for the court all of them gathered in the premises of the Brcko municipality, where we held talks with all of them. The same day, the Commission also visited the Association directly at its address, also held talks and we came up with very serious knowledge of serious violations of human rights. Namely, in the rooms of the municipality of Brcko, they surfaced all contradictions, which were visible to us in the memos we received. So that's where the cards opened up and we started talking, or we got the impression that the services between themselves, and if they were exchanging jokes, they didn't understand at all, some of them didn't even know what kind of things were going on, that they could say the blackmail, because what was going on was happening. I must say, before that, that everyone has also pointed out in the Association of Straight and In, the official authorities have pointed out that the formation of the District in Brcko has made significant advances. It was formed, the Assembly was elected, named Government, made some kind of reorganisation in tax services in other services, so it felt a nice shift. We all know what Arizona meant and where it was called Arizona and that it was at that moment some political moment that was supposed to allow people to get together, who were conflicted until yesterday. All this is positively assessed, until the moment when the contract is signed, that is, preparing for the signing of a contract with a private company called Ital Project, which, under logical pretext, is that the Arizona Market cannot remain the way it acted, to be arranged. Everyone supported it. And that should be pointed out. However, the fact that Arizona Market has not even done business has not been fully arranged. The fact is that everyone who worked at the Arizona Market had or at least most had work permits, temporary or permanent and they were all bonds and paid their notices to the municipality. I'm saying, we should have arranged Arizona Market, maybe more communal, than somehow, and everyone agreed. However, by signing a contract with a private company, ital project, which reported to the tender as it is, not to say by the way that the elements of the competition and the elements of the municipality's decision to disagree, all of this, by signing the contract, comes up with a series of violations of human rights. The Italian project promised to arrange Arizona Market on the part that is social property, or I wouldn't say, I'd just say social property, because it was owned by one company, but it was assigned to them and they were supposed to do the space in which the whole process took place in this entire area of the Arizona Market. However, the accident is in this, it has been promised to people that they can continue, i.e. the conclusion of the municipality is that they can continue working until the time until the project was built, but it comes to a moment where private firms, people who have private buildings built on a private company, are suddenly banned from work by a single decision of the Assembly, and if I say, it was a decision that they could continue work while they were doing these facilities to then move. In fact, it goes on, you can keep working for another year if you sign a contract with an Italian project. It's an inspection with the police's jurisdiction, I say you can keep working, but provided you sign the contract with the Italprojekt project. Ital project to sign the contract requires two to five thousand marks. People have to sign a contract if they're gonna keep working. If you sign such a contract, you pay for it and you can work on where you are without a problem 55. If you don't sign it coming, you're told a ban on working and destroying objects. So, on two grounds. First it's about objects. At first, I thought it was the facilities that are on this social property where the Italian project will work, not the facilities that are on private property, which is not in the area where it is working where people have made private funds, they have been given permission to work, I say, by such a decision of the municipality that their temporary work permits or permanent work permits are taken away by a decree in such a drastic way, i.e. the right to grant work permits to an Italian project, provided that they are paid. It's one of the moments. Second, the ground private, prior to the exemption, before establishing out of the general social interest is awarded to the Italprojekt project, is concluded with the Italproject contract to work on that land facilities which, hand to heart, have no legitimacy or legality, since neither is granted nor assigned that land. So, you sign a contract with a company that doesn't actually get a building permit at the moment of police destruction, even in a conversation with people in the police community, so I don't think there's a lot of violations, a lot of cases of transfer of power, says maybe in a few cases, and we have a back-up picture where people are tinkering with two medical beliefs, of two doctors with squabbles, real beatings, that's why, the chairman, president of the Board of Representatives and Appeals, says he watched with his eyes that the bound man was beaten. This has already been, that I must mention in the course of the talks in the municipality, there have been major changes in the words that both corruption and the harmful contract and the discipline of the authorities and privates, and that he has received a political dimension, it has been seen that, when it comes to the subsequent decision on the exemption of land, that no representatives of the Croatian people voted for this decision, the whole case has also been given a political dimension. Several times, the Croatian Peasant Party sent an open letter to this amendment. So, and that's the moment that we had to start looking at from that angle. This led us to that knowledge that we had before here, but which is also highlighted here, that the government in Brcko District was not formed, according to the '91 census. And that's the consequences, probably all of that happening, and that's it. Namely, the '91 list. 40% were Musliman, now Bošnjak, 25.4% Hrvat, 20.8% Srbin, 9.4 Yugoslavs and others. In the government itself, we note this only that Hrvat participate about 3.8 to 4%. Afterwards, the Commission summarised the impressions in which I must admit they were in the truth astounding and formed some conclusions. The conclusions went, this subset means, the conclusions are on the Human Paws Committee, the less everyone is supported and we decided and, in addition, that each subject should be considered individually. Secondly, the materials are directed to the Ombudsman, because it is also the other institutions that and how it can help them. You've got the conclusions, the men not to count them all in a row, but mostly to get the whole case and the official authorities involved as much as possible, and to make it possible for people who have been deprived of their right to work, to be able to pay off where objects are destroyed, and it's not small, it's a protor of ruins after, to try to find a compromise as close as possible, the easiest way to make people decompose. 56 I got interested the other day and I wanted to see if it had any effect. People are truly grateful and say that there has also been an effect on the arrival of this subcommittee and the Commission's interest in human rights in this case and that, allegedly, a memorandum has been signed, where the municipality would, individually with each of the damaged, conclude one agreement, individually, mean each and try to damage as much as possible. If it were a harmful contract, the results of the harmful contract between the Italian project and, the fact that it was not about the solid objects that were spoken of, however, show that in one of the worse materials and the worse way it was done than the objects that were destroyed, that the budget of the Brcko District was significantly damaged, because the revenues that were due to come, that they continued to work on the continuity of those who were up to the installation of the Italian project, which they were working, would probably have made the budget different, however, by the police action is stopping these actions, so the budget is significantly damaged. However, I have even obtained informal information that ital project is at some stage of withdrawal, which would damage Brcko District again, because Brcko District was in charge of solving some points, which are written in the contract, and if it does not, it will pay the penalty to the Italproject, so it is one whole vicious circle. True, Bog also gained the impression that it was not a pure supervisor in all of this, although his role was significant in this, and that the people who remained behind after the departure of the supervisor, who at that time carried out that duty, were a little caught up in it, a little bit, the malts, not that they apologized to themselves and to all of us that they had to do so and that they did so. But the fact is that human rights are significantly violated, I said when it comes to the right to property, the right to work, the right to life, the right to bargain and to seek ways to survive. Speaking of which, this happened in the year, when there was an intense shift in truth throughout BiH. This is where people didn't come back, and in order to return if they were sent a message that they had been exiled the second time, that they had been taken away once more of the property that had already been taken away. Let me just tell you for one parking lot, that around the building, around the land, that the property of the Hrvat is an unearthed channel a meter by meter, so that no one can accidentally park the truck there. However, the police arranged there to practice where the land was given to the Ital project. I think these are the events which, I hope, should be the past, which in truth must and this Parliament, if our commission in particular and this Parliament insist on being fulfilled, because that way we will restore the trust of these people there, because otherwise, we will not justify our role as a committee either, I am afraid as a parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12667	Thank you. Who wants to talk? If not, before I conclude, I would like to congratulate this working group, which they did: Mr Miloš Jovanović, Jusufović and Mrs Sopta, I think they did, indeed, one big job to show how this Parliament can also be positively related to the demands of citizens, and I think that this report should be strongly supported, that it should be forwarded to all relevant institutions, and quality media followed as one methodology, so that, in other cases, when people and citizens address this Parliament, it shows that we can respond, and if I do not think this is even close to that level of human rights threat that happened there. Gospdin Moranjki and Mr. Jusufović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for listening closely to the report filed by Mrs. Sopta, regarding the violation of human rights in that section called Arizona. Since my place of residence is near that space, I have witnessed many events on that Arizona. I don't think even Mrs. Sopa said what a hiducia was conducted there. It's a real hiducia, there's people being beaten, there's people being persecuted by the Inquisition from their space, there wasn't anywhere at that moment, when it came to such a scene, there was no thinking whether it was a participant or a random passerby, it would have to get beat. There they were heard for a time and bombs were dropped at close range, etc. I, the truth, I don't know all who did it, I didn't go in, but I looked right at it. What worries me as a man is that indeed in certain parts of the country such phenomena appear, where legal authorities are not waiting to do part of their work, procedures, if, and I have no doubt, they are in good time, and then they enter the scene of some mechanics, abusing the force of this charm called the police, misusing organs such as inspections etc. And then every day it's been spinning around for a couple of months, and I think this grade that the commission gave is standing and she's the least spoken and I'm a man condemning that phenomenon that happened there in those spaces. That should really go away, see and experience. I've had it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12669	Munib, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12670	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm not going to talk much, because I have participated as it is said in this subgroup, but I want to underline once again, that this particular case is about a drastic, drastic, repeat, drastic violation of human rights, but here we need to distinguish something. It's not about endangering human rights and most of it. Human rights of representatives of the Croatian people have been undermined so far, and since this property is very specific, given that the situation is well known to me. However, human rights violations and representatives continue, means through property rights and any other rights of representatives of the Croatian people and representatives of other peoples. This sentence, it's just an embellishment, you've heard, that there are stories about the withdrawal of italprojects that are now increasingly present and there's just one heavy fear of people, especially surrounding municipalities: the Mayor, Srebrenica and all the way to the Bijeljina part, the people who paid the funds, it's quite logical that they'll lose those funds by withdrawing that company. It is clear here that there has been the use of the slave or greatest power and the strengths of the authorities and representatives, it must be said by representatives of international organisations, i.e. the OHR present there. It's not about endangering justice, and it's clearly to be said by one nation to another people, that's not the case. There is a case that a single power of a particular group was folded or better said there was a familiar situation, it was, in particular, 58 seen what Mrs. Ruža said at this meeting when little cards began to open, there no one publicly, had to mention it out loud for a long time. It's something that's who in Sicily when you mention something there. Why? So who's employed, if he's simply wronged himself about this very Italprojekat project, he's lost his job, he's lost a lot of things. It's a better situation now. Now it's unwrapping. What direction is this going to go? You could talk here for days and months and about specific questions and what was done. However, the most drastic case that such strong public authority can be given to a company in one country, imagine. That the whole area called the cathartic community, like, I think here Mr. Gligorić has been doing it, so he knows better to professionally explain what it is, an entire area, where I think the monastery on Dubrava belongs. No Niko alive can fix the house anything without the approval of the Ital Italprojekt. Now the latest that must not inspect is forbidden entry into that territory. My people, if that's understood, then it's gone beyond all possible norms. I want to say that I think in addition to what needs to be adopted, this is in the mildest form, I need the Human Rights Commission to constantly deal with this case to monitor what's going to happen, because there's a lot of people out there who are going to lose their assets, because here they had to, if someone wants to do it, they have to give it to the same object that he had, they just have to give it to him because now it says Italprojekat you're going to work on. The second question is that no one knows what Italprojekat project is anymore, who it is. We know there are some people domestic that, for that institution, no one knows who or what it is or whose control it is anymore. But what is that, that is, this I had to say, in order not to understand, here is an objective burden fell, because it is a land, a zone that is situated in particular threatened property of Hrvat, representatives of the Croatian people and who were left without property and who could not work and who simply destroyed all the property that was there, but, at the same time, the tendency is now that, at the same time, the same procedure is done to the individuals, to all those who invested the same thing in Arizona, suffer it. Therefore, it is almost a universal violation, starting with representatives of the Croatian people and everyone else there. I ask you that this question deserves to be followed further, because it's particularly interesting, once again to underline, it shouldn't be, nor is this directed, nor is it directed, because it doesn't perform there objectively, it's true this percentage, but that's another question. The most in power is represented by representatives of the Serb people, because these laws that are at BiH level have never been applied, but are simply such an agreement, but they are not representatives of the Serb or Bosniak people who have done what we are talking about against the Hrvat, because, rather, individuals from the government are converging with some other individuals and continue to do so, and I think that should be monitored. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12671	Thank you, Mr. Jusufović. For the word, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Ćeman, excuse me, Mr Jović, you will not be angry, but you are Mr Ćeman. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12672	I'll do it very briefly. I just checked in, and if I have to say that I haven't gone into the information in half, and I don't know, I belong to those who have more information than we're told. But for the discussions that have been heard about this particular matter, I need something to remind you of. We have, on several occasions so far, had several parliamentary questions related to the status of the Brcko District. We're just listening here to how threatened they are, one people, the other one is or isn't, etc. But I generally think that with our district Brcko and our ambiguities what the District means in terms of our understanding is in terms of connection and association with state institutions, therefore the State Parliament, therefore, is in the absence of one of our own and the strategy towards that region in that legal status, the specific status of the District and, of course, our interests, then it is quite logical that someone else has their own strategies and their own interests. I, unfortunately, agree with the fact that there are a lot of problems here that are given in this information and in the discussion highlighted, but unfortunately there are many more. And we must by no means be satisfied that he suggested that his colleague Jusufović that we follow the situation. If this is the occasion or if the matter has come to this point, to really do something in terms of active access of attractive institutions and the State Parliament to the Brcko District institution, then I think it's a cause, and in this sense I suggest, that from this information, which we have all received to the knowledge and what the occasion we are going to make a fine apology, to say what some questions and problems are, that we are really starting the initiative to have someone, whether it's the Council of Ministers or whether it's OHR, or one and the other, in some way, explain, or deliver one information about this specific relationship or the specificities of the district's status towards state institutions. Otherwise, the Brcko District, Arizona and everything else will be the subject of our findings in many problems. But the fact that state institutions, no matter what level the authorities are at, cannot approach any region, not even the inspection bodies or anyone else can't, without the consent of some foreigners, whether they are representatives of a company or an international community, that we are moving away from the Brcko District, instead of approaching, only hints at future potential problems both in the District and in the state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12673	Thank you. He's got Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, so get ready for Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12674	I probably get a lot of calls.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12675	Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12676	...that you didn't spot me right away, but I wanted to refer the replica to Mr. Jusufović on the word that the majority of Srbin are in Brcko. In Brcko, the structure of the government is 4 60 – 4 – 2. Four Bošnjak, four Srbin and two Hrvat. Therefore, the story of the structure of government and what happens to connect with one people is, indeed, unacceptable here. As far as the Arizona itself is concerned, since I am living there and I am partly directed to these events, the truth is that there was a violation of human rights, it began with a violation of ownership when it comes to Hrvat, and this report clearly lists the names and last names of people who owned part of Arizona's land. However, human rights were also violated by the line of ownership of booths held by people's homes, objects that were made of wood type material and others, not only were they destroyed, not in one dignified way by making a decision and issuing a solution, but simply referring to the ultimatum to get away from and who did not get away within a certain short time then it collapsed with bulldozers and others, in one way that is not appropriate to today's civilised world. It is good to form commissions to see such events that would not be repeated in the future. The effect of the Commission's exit has been seen and citizens' protests have been brought to fruition, so this problem has been resolved in a satisfactory manner both sides these days. The responsibility for this kind of behavior should be borne by the government of the Brcko District headed by a supervisor. This is clearly seen from the report, and from the procedures that have been during all these events, and I condemn any such behaviour, and also an attempt by individual colleagues to take advantage of this one case for some of their political purposes, especially insulting or, perhaps by mentioning nations or parties, which have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12677	Okay, here we go, Mr. Jusufović's replica. I really didn't see you, Mrs. Perkanović. There was no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12678	Well, here's what I'm going to explain to her how much I really want to, but I'm really glad that you from Brcko here with us, but obviously it's gonna take a little while to figure out some things out, because I haven't seen any reason why you've replicated, especially by mentioning the people, I've remembered participation in the structure of the government, which is absolutely incorrect that you're saying, because I have data very accurate from the month to the month. That parole in Brcko, when it comes to answering, is the exact data that's listed here. That's the '91 list. 44% musliman or Bošnjak, 26% Hrvat, 17-18-20% Srbin. Up to now 47 per cent is Srbin, 37 per cent Bošnjak, and about 12 per cent to 13 there whether or not the percentage of Croats is climbing. Or not so much. So it wasn't the subject of the agenda, but it was what Azra was saying because I don't even know where in the name of the people you're reporting from now on, because I said that no people there are discrimination and human rights violations, but they're individuals who are in power, etc. 61 Therefore, we can release the data. If this, I intend to do this, Mr. Chairman, since these institutions are in charge of the Public Administration Act that we adopted, the state, it must be applied directly by law, or by the Statute of the District. They won't apply it there. It won't apply there. It is a violation of human rights there and Bošnjak and Hrvat, Hrvat the most and Bošnjak. Because, how, if 47 percent of Srbin are taking over, and 20% is alone, therefore, it is a violation if we do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12679	Mrs Perkanović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12680	I'm sorry you misread me. This is about the structure of power. The government is the one who directs life and creates life in the Brcko District. And as for the number of inhabitants, Srbin are the majority of the current majority there, and because the Srbin are the majority there, this is the result of the events that have occurred in the last ten years, which are not caused by Srbin, but is the problem from the Federation's space. Therefore, the real state of the population is so today that Srbin are the majority people, and they can also say anything about Arizona. In Arizona, most of the work was done by Srbin. So most of the business has lost Srbin. 80% of the people who worked on Arizona were Srbin. And the land is Croatian. Really.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12681	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Please focus on the report. I think it provides enough ground for quality discussion and conclusions. Thank you very much. Mr. Jović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12682	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish we were in full composition today in this home, not at the border of the corruption, it's 25 of us. Then I'm correcting 32 means. I don't usually look behind my back. I would like to say that surely this important question should have been in front of this honored home long ago. Unfortunately for us, it's not. I asked for the formation of the commission a year and two months ago, and fortunately for me, it was formed, and this report you see, for a full five months it was waiting in the drawer to be brought out here and considered and, behold, it has a basis for its content, but also for what has won this heated debate on human rights violations. Where? In a state called the Brcko District. She's by no means a BiH component, except she's on this side of the Sava. It is ruled by some other laws, which can be characterized by the wild west. And there is no violation of human rights in BiH stronger, stronger and rougher than in this space, and there is a lead, these two of my predecessors to comfort neither Srbin nor Bošnjak, but an international community. She's in charge. We can count there, then I could cry 4% in the public services of Hrvat, and they accounted for 26% of the population in 1991 and that's true, and this commission found it, so in the public sector it works 4%. What 62 messages are there to the Hrvat, may I be allowed to say so, and I believe it is against the rest of the Bošnjak and Srbin in particular. First, I'd like to answer if I can from my best intentions to an esteemed colleague. There was the first crash site, and then tomorrow or the day after that, when it came to a solution, so it was made to man, and then the man lived in the shed, or the smokehouse where the meat was dried, there was a small object, a little bit, at least burned down, so, because I was there on several occasions with these people, and then they covered it with some nylon and lemon, and imagine there the man's house ten meters away was collapsed there and set up the property of an Italian project. He's in that shed where once the meat was dried, and the house and garden were assigned, which is the message to return. Well, well, there are 4% of these when I speak from the point of view of Hrvat in these public services. Well, who would, here we are in the hall in such a den of civilization, come back. What is the perspective of his child, when his land is taken away, that was not done to my dear after '45. Then people, if you had anything, you'd have to become a fuck-up to love the country. Here, in a similar way, hundreds and tons and hundreds of dunums of land, 20 km from the city, are declared a building zone, to improve the necks of fat geese Italy or another country of the world, where all these white world powers come from and all the laws are subject to their financial and other lobbys and interests. I was led by this when I asked two or three times of this high house to raise the question of the formation of a commission like this, which would go both professionally, professionally and without any pathetic and biasedness, to find out that what was said here is true, and it has the right to do these things and to foam and to shout and to scream and to pray and to Bog, and everything is allowed when it comes to injustice. That's why we are, I hope everyone here is complicated. Injustice, if we don't correct it, it will correct our backs. They'll come, today we've seen that question, the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija said that an unsatisfactory man is ready for everything. Let's not make enemies where we don't have them. All of this could have been done within the limits of the law, the rules in force, human dignity, to make it willful, but it was the priority not to return the returnees to that part of the country called BiH. It was the main project of this project. Why do I claim so well there at least, like you believe as many went away, I bought no problem at all. Perhaps there was a need to improve the infrastructure situation, make a little more public toilets, wet knots, water, boost electricity, charge of finances and protection mechanisms in terms of citizens, security, etc. Everything that negatively carries with it such gatherings that are everywhere in the world, and less or less in Arizona, was not from human trafficking and not from white slavery, I fear that expression. We have all the whites. For these reasons, I feel that this move has taken a major step. I'm listening to people from the field of all nationalities who have heard and learned about the work of this committee, all the commendable words, I'm just regretting again that we've been so late. I believe that we must speak loudly here today, that part of the country that is under the direct authority of the international community, which is, of course, formed, so that it could be a viewing part for future solutions in BiH, by all means, so I hope that it should have been and for this human rights has been disgraced. That part of the international community, which conducts the injustice there, has been disgraced. I would be extremely pleased if you would, and if that were the case, but the honourable representative Jusufović said earlier and today dear gentlemen continues to take the unrelenting heat of human rights violations in the Brcko District, that is what I am telling you. So let's do something to prevent, at least the loudness of this house has the strength, and I hope 63 has the need to say where human rights are being violated, to stop it, to condemn it, so if we need to either teach or support those who need protection to look to Strasbourg. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12683	Fellow Members and colleagues, similar bodies in some parliaments, when they need to discuss these issues, usually feel that, if there is a disputed dispute, the proceedings before other competent authorities do not go into this problem, perhaps because they want to respect the principle of judicial independence, which, here, this House has been decided by adopting a series of laws. It also makes sense on the one hand, but the report of the Human Rights Commission of this home which we have obtained confirms in fact and the findings that we have seen here that, in some cases, it makes sense and not to say, step down from that principle, but simply engage before it is too late, given the principle of commitment and this Parliament as a whole and this House that human rights are undeniable and that they should be protected, regardless of who it is and no matter who protects them. Thus, the report we received is commendable and certainly deserves that if nothing is pointed at it as an example of how at a certain point by the competent authority, which in the broadest context observes this problem, can be properly intervened. I'm looking at this question from a principled level and, therefore, I'm about to say a few things in that context. Understanding, of course, that the grades and convictions of human rights violations are something we have already heard and observed and said. In principle, the principle question when this case and similar cases are at issue, how to actually reconcile on one hand and I, here's to perhaps from that point of view the legitimate demands of the authorities and bodies, etc. Not only in Brcko District, but in this country at all to attract foreign capital without harming this country. How to attract capital on the one hand and how to enable new jobs, etc., while at the same time on account, here in a specific case private property does not favour other private assets, which is nonses. Here it is said in one place about the determination of general interest that it is determined that it is not, indeed, a principle issue of principled nature, whether it can be aimed at the extent that it seems economically justified to favour a private company, some institutions of private nature can establish a general interest at the damages of both private, personal, property and other rights of citizens of this country. Those are subtle questions. The way people's rights are violated here shows that someone, seems to have estimated that it can be done. Very problematic and, of course, not principled and unacceptable. That's why, I said, what we're talking about today is Brcko and the Brcko authorities' relations with one part of the country's citizens, but this also has a principled meaning and broader meaning. In this context, the current regulations, at least I appreciate it so much, could not be easily understood, especially when it comes to determining the general interest in endangering human rights of people. Because I can understand that reaching a zoo is something in a particular case here by country or what I know, if you were to, to make a public object, a path or this or what, which are the most common cases of similar, or something like that, but I can't understand that you want to make one, maybe a very successful business move tomorrow, and that in the right way is not 64 protection of rights and those concerned. Why else in any other place, if someone's property, someone's country or what I know is worth it so that it can't be done without it, then you can choose to involve such individuals in ownership relations and relationships with whoever wants to do business here, and we all want people from abroad to do it and in this way solve issues and about property, and not by establishing public interest. I will conclude, I think it is clear from this that I support the work of the Commission, but I stress here it is about Brcko and the people of the Brcko area, but this is a principle issue. And so it should be understood and thank God that we have come into a position that we can talk in this way, and I, in principle, and if there have been several remarks here of this kind of threat to this or that national interest, obviously it is not, in my court however, in the first place, although there may be a reference to that in the first plan are the relationships that I tried to point out, at least by my judgment it seems so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12684	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Let Mr. Elmir Jahić prepare himself, so Mr. Nikoa Špirić and I no longer have an application to discuss. Mrs. Sopta for Replica, before Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12685	Maybe this could be both the dobs and the replicas. It's my fault that the atmosphere here was created, yes, it's only the supervisor and the strangers, the galley, the majority of the culprits, and they are. However, because of the topics we have been building on today, because of the conclusion that Mr Lagumdžija, whom we have referred to on the commission, we could be doing a little bit of self-critical behavior, not to punish ourselves, but to think about the future. When it comes to occupying Hrvat land, it is 15 plus 11 hectares of land. It's not a small thing. Where were the Bošnjak and Srbin to oppose it. Also in that hall where we talked to those representatives of the government, none of the Srbin and Bošnjak were as eloquent and explicit as the Croatian representatives, such as the people who were in the Brcko District and the Hrvat were, and I am saying this more because, I would like to see that like Jusufović's discussion here today and as a discussion of the lady that it was then and, at least at that meeting, if it wasn't at the Brcko Assembly. They cannot be completely amnesty and participants in the rule of the Serb and Bosniak people, because if they are not allowed to do this to us every time, neither should the Hrvat, because they should have lost their jobs as well as Srbin and Bošnjak probably. I'm not saying that someone put on a national dress and used and committed crime under that national dress. I don't even argue that it was where we were at the meeting, people are under some excuse defending a cop who beat up there if there weren't a lot of cases like that, defending him maybe because he's a Srbin. He wasn't defending him because he was a Srbin, but he was there in some relationship with the Ital project. It is inconceivable that we can say that one government, the state government, which is their sole right, is the right to grant permits, they trust it to one private firm, even this private company, and it is entrusted to it that it collects municipal fees for which they, they claimed, to the soul of the council-less all, claimed that part of that municipal fee that was to be passed over 65 of the account of the Italpoect and transferred to the community, was not even transferred 20-30 of the harvest, and that it was not collected in most parts, it was a fact with which they had been tampering. When I spoke about the structure of the population now, I spoke more as a member of the Commission on Human Rights and Refugees, where I hold that in the year when the return to all over BiH was intensely happening, there could not be and there are no facts which the Hrvat told us and did not want to come back, said you gave them space in Croatia. That's not true. The man says he has three sons in Switzerland all three would come back, it's just this man Mr. Jović was talking about. I have a courtroom where I live and a woman, a relatively physical person looks good to deal with agriculture can't deal with, and the house tells me, and this whole space has been assigned to the Ital project. So where was the return message? Where there were both Bošnjak and Srbin, to say, it doesn't really make sense, it doesn't make that much sense. That's what I mean by government institutions. So I wouldn't want to get the impression that the only culprit is the supervisor. The supervisor is a good part, but the countervisor could also not have done it without the institutions of power. Another thing about the arrangement, i.e. what relations the Brcko District has with the state of BiH, according to the Federation, according to the RS, I honestly tell you, I was reading a little literature about it surprised that the scale in the notices would be more likely to leave whether a supervisor or a high representative in BiH. Whoever has to step away from the authorities first and the way it is. I hope to be honest, that the launched initiative for constitutional change and this and Brcko District will find its place in all of this, to discuss it and put it in the right place, because in this way I through as much as I am in Parliament, I have the impression that the Brcko District is the third entity, which is completely sovereign, I could even say more sovereign than these two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12686	Thank you. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go. Mrs. Perkanovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12687	As far as the authorities in Brcko are concerned, there's a familiar point here, if it isn't now you'll find out there was no choice in Brcko. The government in Brcko is running MPs after the competition, meaning not by choosing the power of citizens, but by electing supervisors and OHR offices. Therefore, you can't expect to have people out there who will earnestly represent the interests of the citizens, which from her discussion, her notes are clearly visible. The citizens' stances are being defended by citizens, and the government's stances are being defended by MPs. Therefore, it is a reality that is present in Brcko and was not much on the premises of the whole of BiH, no one cared why Brcko had no choice. Srbin are the only ones who have sought elections, all the time elections and democratic authority in Brcko, a government that will reflect the will of the people, which will represent the interests of every nation. But I hope that all of this has already come to an end and that these elections in October will change the whole situation and the very lives of both the people and the citizens of the Brcko District. What do I mean by that? What I'm saying is that the biggest responsibility is to people who are acting in power in the Brcko District. And 66 are the people who are directly responsible to those who chose them, and they were not chosen by the people who live there. There's been a series of human rights violations. Before the Arizona and Italproject case took place, there were violations of human rights that Srbin were left masculinely out of work to hire returnees of Bošnjak and Hrvat. There's never been a discussion about it. Never, and people today have no business, no return to the Federation, no adequate life in Brcko. But this is not a topic of today's discussion, and I join all those who will advocate the rise of the level of human rights in BiH, in every city, not in Brcko District, not in Arizona, but in the human rights of every individual, every group and every people in BiH at all levels.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12688	Thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12689	...I think that the Commission has done its part of the job and today, according to this report, we can make ourselves known here as we see positively. But let me say a few words. The greatest injustice committed in Arizona was done precisely by Arizona to the citizens of Tuzlan Canton. The black market and the loss of taxes and diprinos, which went beyond Tuzla canton, we claim that Arizona is the greatest evil that could have hit us both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and roma and other national minorities in Tuzla canton. But when it comes to specific violations of human rights in Arizona, that's what the Commission said and I have nothing to add, except one note. The Human Rights Commission must ask the human rights issue at the level of the entire BiH. The point of the problem is, what if it had happened on the Arizona, I would have said collapse in health, I must tell you that it was a disaster what Mr. Ivo Miro Jović said. Well, that's where you could have been infected on all grounds. It was not important to do this, but it was important to open the booth and work without taxes and contributions etc. I welcomed the creation of the Arizona project, but after this, I wouldn't look at any project or accept it if it came without organized access and equality of citizens who should give their part to the area. So, please, I don't think the Arizona debate is exhausted. It opened only a series of questions where this home should take the view that it must operate according to the laws we have, without distinction in our territory in the Federation in RS, Brcko District, anywhere and that the attitude of this home must be human rights, at least in the focus of this home in the first place and not be violated. I think with that attitude and such tasks, that we are constantly taking care and taking care of these things, I think we can conclude this point with one positive opinion that Arizona is no longer allowed to happen again. Believe me, you could've gone healthy and come back sick. You couldn't go normally when you went from Tuzla up to Orasje, because you no longer knew where the road is or where anything is, but what's now being done by the project italproject, let me say, here as a professional man, I don't see anything happening there, what's going to happen and what these people expected to happen. By introducing Arizona and bringing it into order, here is the right that I am, because I am satisfied, because I got the information, there will be a 67-large market where people will normally come home, to go, but it's only important that they don't violate human rights, so if they have to make themselves, but in terms of whether or not the existing law requires. I think we have shown this that the Commission can do its part of the job, point out shortcomings and can ask institutions in the entire BiH state for protection of human rights, from Mostar to Orasj, from Zvornik via Tuzla, Dobo, Kotorska, Banja Luka, Bihaća, but it must be in the focus of this home and therefore I suggest that, with the adoption of this report, we say that human rights are what needs to be had, respecting all the proposals that the laws must apply in the entire territory of BiH, regardless of whether it's a district or an extra district or entity, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12690	Thank you. The word has Mr Elmir Jahić, let Mr Nikola Špirić be prepared and Mrs Palavrić is still registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12691	Thank you, Chairman. So, it is certain that we throughout BiH have many environments that we have similar problems, as we have in Brcko District, from the return of returnees, the employment of national representation, the corresponding Decisions on the constitutionality and equality of the people, that is, the legal acts that came out of it, and these problems that Mr Bešlagić is talking about, therefore, not paying taxes, etc. It is certain that in the area of Brcko District these problems are multiplicated because of the very structure and very structure of the Brcko District. However, we in the Commission wanted to approach this problem, in fact at the request of the Association of Ravna, therefore, with problems not of collective rights, not with the rights of the people in BiH, but exclusively with human rights of the individual and the citizens, and I think that this is a positive example, where, indeed, the Commission, in a professional, professional, unbiased way, has managed to do its job, in particular I think it is one quality way, because the members of our subgroup from the Commission have visited Brcko District, talked to all interested parties and people who are damaged by the parties, so, individuals, and also with the institutions of the authorities and, we have been talking to this problem at least as it has been in our neighbourhood all time, so the atmosphere has been, that, exclusively with the problem of individuals, citizens, or the threat of human rights of the individual citizens. The fact is that, given the fact, we cannot go beyond that again, not to mention it and that there is no importance of facts, therefore, that the land that has been taken away has belonged to the citizens of Croatian nationality as well. What our members of our committee, i.e. the subgroup that was formed on this occasion, and we, I would like to point out, so as soon as we got the memo and as soon as we got the presentation of the Association straight, so we reactively reacted and very quickly formed a subgroup that went to the scene and very quickly, therefore, we had a very fast one-quality 68 report, based on which we established and proposed appropriate conclusions. What is, indeed, worrying is one thing, which was present with people when talking to our subgroup, and that's what worries. And, I wouldn't be sure, I wouldn't even want people in power to sort on some national basis. Obviously, these people in power, no matter what people they belong to, have fallen into one, as I would say, into this one conformist, opportunistic packaging, so that they, really nice and comfortable with good wages, so they didn't have much to do with either of the representatives of the international community or each other. I hope this year when we have these local elections that it will contribute greatly to a healthier atmosphere in the Brcko District area. What it is, in my opinion, is a problem, I wouldn't comment, because I've been involved in making these conclusions, and we've unanimously supported all these conclusions, this report. What was here was the words, indeed, the Brcko District acts as one closed system, and in particular it seems to me that this is problematic in the system. It seems to me that the judiciary is working in some other way, certain that such things and such problems wouldn't happen in the Brcko District area. Namely, as you know, the citizens of Brcko District cannot regularly complain about higher cases, so state cases, or the State Court. There was an initiative and a strong initiative from the citizens of Brcko District, from institutions in Brcko District, and even we as the Commission supported this initiative to amend the law on the BiH State Court, so that the citizens of the Brcko District could also regularly implement this legal remedy. I have information that this initiative has been hitched, and again by representatives, some representatives of the international community, and I don't think it's a good thing. So, you have the malts not that system in the Brcko District cadiya sues you, cadiya judge you. It must be made possible for the citizens of Brcko District that if the Court of Justice in Brcko District delivers a verdict that these citizens can appeal to the State Court, therefore, to the Court of BiH. It's one of the ways that things like this don't happen in the future. Here, I support this report, and it seems to me that this point report would conclude if Parliament could in one special way support this initiative to amend the law on the BiH State Court with the aim of all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12692	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12693	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I've been thinking, today, if today is even about this part of the agenda to come forward, but, behold, a few discussions have offered me that it might not be good for us to remain unsettled today. It's not true that only Brcko has a supervisor. There's also BiH. It's not true that only Brcko is closed, but the cantons are closed, the entities are closed, where we think we have domestic representatives of the government. It is not true that human rights are violated there in Brcko District thanks to the dominant or predominant presence of international community representatives with large powers. But what I want to say at the beginning is that I support the Commission's report and I'm less interested in who exercises 69 powers in the Brcko District, but I'm interested in human rights violations as little as possible. So, I support the Commission's work, I support the Commission's efforts to work awake in Brcko District and that it, to try to influence those irresponsible in power to ease the problem in Brcko District. But what I also want to point out is what Mr. Selim Bešlagić said, it is not likely that this country would be the happiest country in Europe if only human rights violations were based on that basis in the Brcko District. It's not just the '91 list. Not applied in Brcko District. It's not like my fellow state deputies don't know, so I'd like to ask this commission to consider it, so you have petitions from the public of the municipalities that they want to be expelled from the canton or county. Has this come to the Commission? Did the Commission ask itself why that is? So you have an Ital project, that the Ital project has more Arizona. The fact that ital project is in Arizona, that's Fininvest in the woodwork. Same thing. There were 5,000 people employed before the war Srbin, so now I speak also nationally, because they can be violated and such rights, today you have to work 1,000 people, out of 1,000 may have seven Srbin, and the problem is that machine engineers work as cutting machines and that what we have heard for centuries as a forest treasure today is arching and out of BiH, and that's the problem. So I ask you as responsible people, so I absolutely support all the findings, absolutely the Commission. It's not even my goal to paralyze what's called a problem in our country, it's to open our eyes. Here's the '91 list. I agree to apply in Brcko. Do you agree in all other rooms or is this what it seemed to me in surreals who reported it? Shall we look into the truth? It's not like where. So take this, since it's already, when you associate me with it, therefore, it's not even Wood I'm acclaiming you have Srebrenica, you have Mostar, you have a boat, here's the boat, I'm talking, wherever it is you have me associates. It doesn't matter if we don't bid now nationalally. But that commission needs to go public. Do you really think any happiness in this country, says I don't want to belong to that region or that canton, that they're people of happiness. So, I support the Commission's work and I ask that it works on the whole of BiH, and to extend work and observation in Brcko District, and then I would ask that I see the Commission's report to come here and talk about whether it's just a problem, there are similar or worse problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12694	Thank you. Replica Jović pa Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12695	I appreciate Mr. Vice President's thinking, but this is one way of relativating the problem. I won't agree to that. Number one. Number two, we are presented that Brcko District should be tried for what BiH should look like. Who in a country where he would be in the last place, not the first in human rights. So we grieve, if we do it to each other in one environment, and here we will certainly slaughter ourselves, so when we get to the right solutions, but I ask you nice to have someone from the white world come, so my grandfather takes my grandfather's land and he says to our dictionary nice things like that, so I'm still here to justify him for the pay phone, and it's sad. Here it is done specifically without any twisting of the election law in Brcko District, which has been passed 70 under the pressure of the international community, there is yet to be seen violations of human rights. We're going to go to worse trouble now. I must also stress the adoption of an electoral law for the Brcko District. All Croatian nationalities from the SDP, the Peasant Party of the NHI, the HDZ left the hall and refused to participate in the adoption of such a shameful law. Perhaps it would be a nice conclusion for this parliament to apply the law, BiH Election Law, to these elections in Brcko District. It could be our good and valid contribution to stabilising the situation there, etc. We don't have time, and we don't need more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12696	I thank Mr. Jović. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12697	So, if anyone wants or thinks I'm relativizing. That's not my intention. I support every sentence and every letter in the Commission's report and we ask that the Commission continue its work. But, Mr. Jović, for me from the white world and the one that in Arizona and Finnfest, I should be happy that Finnfest is from Zagreb to BiH. Well, you see, that's the thing. When we speak, we must be clear. For me, therefore, if we view BiH as a state, I want to observe it, therefore, absolute support to the Commission, but here I am asking that it be the conclusion of this home that the Human Rights Commission is visiting the Drvar and that region. With every letter, I'll agree to a refinery in the ship. I don't mind. I don't balance. I support this, I'm just saying we can't accuse the international community, because they exist where we have local government, where there's no international community. You don't have an international community tree in Grahovo, Glamoc, Srebrenica, so we can't have them invoiced. I guess I have to take a team that we choose to look face-to-face. So, just that, we can't go here with the thesis that the international community exclusively violates human rights in BiH. I don't agree with that. So it's not my goal to relativize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12698	Okay. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12699	...more of a bit of a technical nature and to explain what was actually a specific task of this, so obviously we don't know. In fact, I agree with everything Mr Špirić and our commission has in the works of all these activities that are spoken of. We went to maybe one 15 municipalities and refugee centers last year, and we planned it this year. So, I'm sure you're watching what we were talking about, what you were talking about. In particular, we have reacted as a commission to a memo, namely to an association’s appeal, and on this basis we have made one appropriate conclusion. I'm sure we'll be treating these problems of returnees, of national representation, of employment in our business, and surely this year we'll be going to the municipalities. I think the woodwork, Srebrenica 71, is that they're planned. So this is one part of our job and it specifically refers to disrespecting the human rights of people in the Brcko District.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12700	I thank Mr. Jahić. As a member of the Commission, I had no need to react to what Mr Špirić said, because I think that every member of the Commission is thinking as a whole about respecting human rights and that it will work, but obviously everyone is looking at it in their own way. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12701	Let me give full support to the Commission report in front of the SDA Club. In addition, let me ask all of us to deal with it a little more seriously, to deal with the problem of the Brcko District. Does the district really mean he shouldn't apply BiH law? It would be good if we had the same experience of Vašington-Disi at the same time, if he's applying some laws that the United States doesn't apply. It would be good if we had that kind of data and compared it and let me remind you of one more thing, which I'd like to add to the report. In the BiH Constitution itself, Annex II in its chapter on the continuity of the law, it clearly states that all laws that were in force at the time of the Dayton Agreement remain in force until the authorities decide otherwise. As far as I know, let it be possible that the Brcko District has passed an expropriation law, but I don't think that, as far as I know and the Brcko District must be subject to the existing expropriation law, which does not allow neither the determination of general interest nor the sprawl of one natural person in favour of another natural person at all. Such an attempt was made in the Federation a few years ago, and we shot him down. There is no individual whose interest will be stronger than the individual whose property it is. If he wants to go ahead. There's a market price, there's no expropriation, and she's okay. That's between the two of them. But to establish that the general interest is something that is not of general interest and something that is at the expense of individuals is absolutely inadmissible and I think that this fact is, therefore, suggested that the report is complemented by that this fact, especially warning and the Brcko District Assembly and supervisor in Brcko and Mr. Eždaun himself, because it is the least we can expect and require that it happens in this country, and indeed I call you once again, and please focus a little more on the Brcko District, because it is becoming a third entity more and more and more, not the District of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12702	Thank you. Mrs. Perkanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12703	I would disagree that the Brcko District has no law, that it does not apply BiH laws, as well as entity laws. That's where you're wrong, that doesn't stand. And what happened in Arizona for that sort of thing has recently been a procedure against the officials of the time, who have been acting on the greatest duties in this matter. 72 Therefore, it is something to consider that it is not happening to us, as something that allows itself from power. So we cannot qualify this as a lack of law, not respect for the law, but can qualify it as the behaviour of individual officials within the framework of the government, for which the process is already open.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12704	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. Replica Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12705	If the report is better read, we will find in it that the decision to declare and determine the general interest has been made and has never been published. The High Representative reacts to that decision and annuls it. It still applies today. Then scream to heaven. What is this time where we live? What wild west is that? What does this high house need yet? A decision that has never been published shall apply. The High Representative has annulled, she's in effect. Bog forbid.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12706	Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12707	I'll just point out that the supervisor isn't there anymore, and I'll point out that the mayor is no longer in the place where he was, or the head of the geo service that's responsible for everything and everything is in the procession. Therefore, it will only come to an end, and this process will come to an end. I'm saying it was a matter of irregularities and perhaps abuse of certain positions in favour of personal or group interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12708	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12709	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly, firstly appreciate the effort that the Commission has made and I think it is very good that we have broken up in time last session of Parliament and made it possible to talk about this today, because it is certain that this is not unique, or unique, but it is not the only example, but it is unique for many reasons, and because today I am setting ourselves up by this example, we are also setting the principles of the behaviour of each other, and it is therefore very important that today we have the opportunity to talk about this in peace and quite content. I think it's very good that the Commission has been working and having this many conversations with the people involved. Indeed, the impressive list that speaks here about who everything was talked to, the list of documents that went through and which was the basis for something like this, and that's why these proposed 11 snacks are something that we can certainly accept as good in principle. 73 What I miss a little bit here and I think we should find a way to still achieve additional effort to find it as an integral part, not perhaps of this report, but of the next report that I suggest we have as... what we conclude today. Namely, it would be good, although here in one sentence it says that you are at the beginning in the first page of the last paragraph, that in the face of direct... organized a meeting with certain bodies and institutions of the Brcko District. I first thought that you had conversations with the competent state authorities, and then I realized that in some way, since no state body was counted forward, so it made me a little bit of a mistake, I think it would be very good and, if you didn't involve the Council of Ministers' institutions in this. We must accept as a method when, as a principle of work, that this commission and each other we have in some way a specialist team on the given problem of this Parliament, and since this Parliament has its own service, conditionally said executive service, that is the Council of Ministers and Government, that means that the Commission should have the appropriate... with the relevant ministries and the Council of Ministers. So, I think it would be good that, and if they weren't involved so far, that first of all, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Refugees should have a more active relationship, if not so far, and that from now on, and therefore my proposal is supporting this report, I am sure that today's debate will be the basis for us to realize in two or three months' time that something has been done in this report that has changed the situation. And, therefore, it is my proposal that today, by adopting this report, we adopt one work task, under which the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, Foreign Trade, Human Rights and Refugees, would be tasked to launch, implement and coordinate activities in accordance with this report, and to deliver within three months to the Commission, analoguely to Parliament, to deliver to Parliament a report on the realization of these conclusions, this conclusion, that is, in other words, all of these issues that are recorded here, that in a way, in two months or three, it is not a real time period for the Commission to find a report before us, and not for the Commission to be the one who, or the working group that is going to do so, but for the competent ministries to be your service in this, or for our service in this matter and that, on the basis of that working conclusion, in some two to three months, we see whether we have moved away in any of these questions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12710	Thank you. I have another Mr. Huskić reported. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing my applications.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12711	Dear colleagues, I think we're talking a lot about this, and you haven't noticed that there are some big differences, no matter what at some point, there seems to be a discrepancy. I've been trying to listen to everything, and I think all the discussions were on the same page. And, of course, as my predecessors, I support the Commission's report, and I think she has done a rather significant and extensive job and, as my colleague Laglumdžij said, I assume that 74 of our relationship to the report will set standards for future decisions and conclusions of this home. I wanted to make a connection in some way to Mr. Jahić's discussion. The Commission has proposed eleven conclusions here. I don't think all those eleven have, as I would say, have any specific weight. I think there's four out there that I think should, in my opinion, specifically single out, that's the number five conclusion that I'm not reading right now, you all have it in front of you, number 9, 10, and 11. Conclusions 9 and 10 sort of touch the judiciary as the third pillar of the government, or the third element that took part in what was happening there alongside international representatives and domestic authorities. Conclusion 5 states that there are some harmful contracts, etc. So, there should be something else here, so in this sense I suggest that the Commission, which has done this on the basis of these conclusions, means, since I appreciate that not all are of equal importance and based on these discussions of today, to make concrete conclusions and to adopt each of these conclusions individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12712	Thank you very much. I suggest we conclude it the following way. Let us first receive this report of knowledge, evaluate it with quality and give recognition to those who have worked on this report. To affirm this approach as an approach to the work of the Commission and as an approach to the work of this home, not just for the Brcko District. Secondly, the third thing is that the commission, since there have been a lot of reasoned requests here, that is, the working subgroup continues to monitor continuously, since things have not been solved by many, to give them the task and to keep us informed on a regular basis. Third and fourth, to deliver this to the Council of Ministers and to get one relevant information that the Council of Ministers can do at all these points. I think that's what the whole debate is about. Can we conclude this way? I thank you. Should we be gallant about these conclusions? Please make a statement about this. Vote now. Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted the proposed conclusions. I will ask you for a half-hour obligation, the presidency will be taken over by the first deputy Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12713	Before we move to the next point, here you go, Mr. Avdić. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12714	... I think it's the minimum thing to do. This analysis and this position of Parliament. I'm asking you to do this, if it's in any way possible to calculate this pan somehow.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12715	All right, Mr. Špirić wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12716	...to send a report to the Commission and send a stenogram from the debate. What Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija told the departments in charge. The Commission doesn't have to give impulses everywhere. Human rights violations concern those who exercise power. So I didn't insist that it be a special conclusion, so that I wouldn't open up any other debates that the Commission's top priority for the next field coverage would be the Dravar. So, for those reasons. But let the stenogram go to the Council of Ministers to ask them later why we're not responding. The Commission can't point the finger anywhere. In that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12717	I thank Mr. Špirić. You see, therefore, there are several addresses to be delivered to. Both the Commission's report and the conclusions of the House that we have just said. I suggest, since it is difficult to define this now, and there is no risk that someone should not be left behind to deliver it, that we should assign the Professional Service of this House to the sekretarijat of the dom that in collaboration with the College is delivered to the relevant addresses and that, of course, this home is informed of who it was delivered to. Can we accept that? Is there any need to vote? We've concluded, and I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are moving on to the ninth item of the agenda. Ad.9. The Commission's report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum to the party's representative naći Dizdarević delivered this report to this home on 26 April and the report shows that the Commission adopted certain conclusions and forwarded these conclusions to the dispensing addresses with appropriate requirements. As in the previous case, this House should take note of the Commission's report and, of course, to support the measures taken by our commission, our permanent working body. I am opening a debate on this report and the President of the Commission for Refugees and Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum Mr Elmir Jahić has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Jahić. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12718	Thank you, Chairman, I have a situation similar to what we had earlier, with the fact that I am obliged to clarify that according to the Poslovnlik of Procedure on the work of our commission, if we have a complaint from more citizens, therefore, groups of citizens, we are obliged to refer the report to Parliament, until individual complaints are due. However, we felt that, in the end, the information is also intended to be directed to Parliament, referred to the relevant addresses, to the councils of ministers and other addresses, which should, in fact, be realised, you will see in this case the House of Human Rights decision. Namely, Nađa Dizdarević from Sarajevo addressed our commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum, with a complaint that her husband, along with members of the so-called so-called "Immigrants". Algerian groups illegally imprisoned in the United States at the Guantena military base in Cuba, so you know the case by mistake by the BiH authorities and the Federation of BiH. As in the previous case, otherwise, it is the style of work of our commission, we have formed a sub-group, i.e. a sub-committee, which has held appropriate talks, obtained appropriate documentation and certainly the most help we have in addition to these talks had decisions on the acceptability of the measure for human rights in BiH, under the corresponding numbers. What we concluded after the talks and after seeing the documentation, we saw the decision of the House of Human Rights, namely that on 17 January 2000, it was key on January 17th and 18th, in one day many things happened. So, they were ordered to release these persons from custody, but instead of being released they were immediately placed under the supervision of the Federation police, and the next day they were handed over to the US military forces. Then, on the same day of January 17th, the House of Human Rights issued an order for temporary measures, ordering the Federation and BiH authorities to take all necessary measures to prevent those persons from being taken from BiH territory by applying force. Also, on the same day, the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH's investigative judge, has reached a solution that abolishs detention against these persons, as there are no more reasons or circumstances for which detention is established. Unfortunately, all these decisions, therefore, both judges of the Supreme Court and the Human Rights House are not respected by the BiH authorities and the Federation of BiH authorities, where according to the complaints of the BiH House of Human Rights, BiH, more specifically the BiH authorities and the Federation of BiH authorities in that period, are being referred to by the groups of citizens here as four members who were otherwise citizens of BiH, as you were aware that the group consisted of six people, four of whom were citizens, and two were temporary residence. So, the House of Human Rights has decided and made a decision that these people have violated the rights to freedom and personal security, the assumption of innocence, therefore, that persons are innocent while they are in accordance with the law and prove that they are guilty of being guaranteed by Article 6 of Title 2. The Convention, then that human rights are violated, not to be exposed to the risk of death, which is guaranteed by Article 1 of the same Convention, so that man's right not to be subjected to torture and inhumane humiliation and, as well as other rights. 77 On the basis of all this, it was obvious that the BiH authorities, the Federation authorities, in the most harsh way, violated these human rights, which were referred to these citizens and, with the opposite logic of the House of Human Rights, delivered these citizens of BiH to which the House of Human Rights subsequently returned citizenship, as you know, the citizenship of these citizens was taken away. So, they are still, they are currently BiH citizens with BiH citizenship. Also, the decision was imposed on the authorities of the Federation, the authorities of BiH and the Federation, here it says, therefore, appropriate, namely, to the authorities of BiH, primarily the Council of Ministers and the Federation of BiH, in particular the Government of the Federation, which is responsible for implementing the decisions of the House of Human Rights to implement this House of Human Rights, since 3.9.2. Unfortunately, here, a year and a half of those decisions have not been implemented. Also, I'd like to say what we don't have a report, based on our information, based on the report of an international legal group, it seems to me from Washington, we have information that started with the release of people, or these prisoners in the Guantanamo base, but the release of these prisoners can only, normally if there is no curve of responsibility, be at the request of the Government, so there is, therefore, a series of governments that have filed a request for the release of these prisoners, if there is no criminal procedure, there are some citizens, English citizens, that they have been released, etc. and that the request of our government, in this case of the Council of Ministers, is also needed in order to initiate the procedure, unless there is any criminal responsibility in these people. We have once again stressed that international legal documents on the protection of human rights and freedoms, which have been accepted in BiH, must be consistently incorporated into all laws and regulations, out of dignity from the content of these regulations, and applied by the competent authorities directly and without exception, which was not the case here in the behaviour of the Federation Government, or the Council of Ministers during that period. And, we normally asked the BiH authorities and the Federation to inform us within a month of receiving these conclusions to the Commission of further actions. So, in time, as soon as we completed our work and subcommittees, a report was later adopted on the Commission, when we adopted this report, we sent to the Council of Ministers to taraj, as we have noted here that the competent authorities of BiH and the Federation of BiH require that an urgent procedure be launched to return the party's wives and other mentioned detainees and detentions of the military bases to the Guantenims in BiH. So, to be referred to a request. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12719	I thank the President of the Commission, Mr Jahic. Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12720	Well, I don't know who was in a hurry to put this item on the agenda today, because we as the Commission formed a subcommittee, which was tasked with doing what Mr Jahić spoke of 78. And, as far as I know, the subcommittee was supposed to file a report to the Human Rights Commission, and we were supposed to file a report to the House. Eh, now I don't know, I'd like to know when it was. I wasn't on that committee. So also in the report, here's who's been reading the report, so this is a subcommittee report, and it's not the Commission's report and I'm proposing Mr. Chairman that we're not discussing this agenda point today, so this is the Commission's debate, so we're going to give our report to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12721	I thank Mr. Jovanović. The word has been given by the President of the Commission, Mr Jahic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12722	Well, indeed, Mr Jovanović was probably not present at the Commission's session. The subcommittee had a report. It was the same procedure as it was about the case before. The Commission was composed of Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo and Mr Tihomir Gligorić. They presented their report to the Commission, on which, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigrants and Asylum was adopted a report by the Sub-Committee and members of the Sub-Committee can confirm this to you. The fact that you didn't attend, I really don't know where you were, Mr. Jovanović. So the full procedure, this report adopted on the Commission. So it's the same procedure as before.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12723	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12724	Just to clear up this dilemma set up by Ambassador Jovanović. The Commission, and Mr Jovanović was present on it, concluded that a sub-committee was formed and that everything the Commission had done, in the sense that she had taken a statement and asked more questions also to Mrs Dizdarević, and then the documentation she had since the decision of the House for Human Rights and all that was attached, that the sub-committee would process all this and propose conclusions to the Human Rights Commission. The subcommittee did the job, and you have contributed to this report, and then the Commission, therefore, considered the subcommittee report and accepted this subcommittee report, and in this way we could have done it in two ways, already Mr Jahić explained it and there was no need to talk about it, but I wanted to help the dilemma that I participated in, means also as a member of the subcommittee and the Commission and that the procedure for the Rules of Procedure was absolutely satisfied and, of course, finally to meet the House of Representatives, which is quite fine. Thank you. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12725	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word, Mr. Jovanović is looking for the Zarplica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12726	I accept that I may not have been, but, look, I don't know if you have this report that says nicely here, based on Article 33. The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Official Messenger and that, the subcommittee for the presentation of the party, Dizdarević Nadja, set out a report at the meeting held on 24.4. etc. So, not the Commission, there is no report from the Commission on human rights and refugees. Which is why, I say, maybe I don't have that report and I apologize, so I have a subcommittee report I got, but by the time I get back, I don't want to demean the work of the subcommittee. I'm not going to say that there have been no violations of human rights, but I just don't think it's correct because of the others and I say hundreds of complaints and statements that we, as the Commission, have, to say that only in this assembly is being debated about this. On the same commission when we picked this one, to tell the subcommittee, we discussed the case, it seems to me Šarić Habibe, something like that, but if we were to discuss it, then we should have put it on the agenda, not just this. I say because of the correctness of the other complaints and of the other people who complained, I don't think we should have just discussed this at the assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12727	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Jahić, ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12728	Well, Mr. Jovanović has, maybe he wasn't delivered in the material report. Exactly, what's been delivered is from 20.4. is the subcommittee for the presentation, etc., and we had a report a day later, and here you see that on April 21st, we had a quorum, we were present, Mr Jovanović you were probably somewhere. So, I'm the signer here, and we have it done right. I'd just like to say about what's going on with our commission's representations. Our commission can only solve those complaints when the court dispute is over, so the trial, only then can we argue. We can't get involved in those complaints that the litigation is still pending. Also, this particular case, it seems to me, Mr Jovanović, that you are destined to be in this subcommittee in this case, seems to me that until today you have not sat down to discuss it. So you were in this subcommittee to solve this problem and you should have sat down in time and done your job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12729	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić picked up the phone. Here you go. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12730	Thank you very much. I want to join the evaluation of both the Commission and the College who put this item on the agenda, because let's not forget that this is a case where the Human Rights House for BiH has established violations and not only found that there are, the fact is that these violations are ongoing. I can't imagine taking sides, so let's just be calculatedly in the mood to remove emotions. What about the people, what will happen to them, what are the dangers, but I cannot imagine a figure that will finally be laid out to the BiH state and the Federation of BiH for this case and, as far as I remember, the decision of the House of Human Rights and the Federation of BiH and the state of BiH, in addition to paying compensation to those who have complained to the House of Human Rights, are obliged to all persons in the case of the so-called so-called so-called House of Human Rights. Algerian groups provide every legal aid, visit them, provide them with lawyers and provide them with any assistance, to defend themselves as soon as possible from the Gvantanam base. What the President of the Commission has pointed out is the particular additional circumstance that right now there is a mood to release those against whom criminal proceedings are not being conducted, I think it is really necessary to react quickly and free these people and if they should be judged as being originally and imagined to be tried in a country where they should be tried. This procedure has been strongly condemned by the House of Human Rights and I am convinced that, if we do not react quickly, they have continued it or the Commission at the Constitutional Court of Human Rights, therefore, in which part of the House of Human Rights has transformed or even worse, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And I think that's why this case is so hard and we really can't gamble with this kind of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12731	Thank you, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12732	I thank Mr. Chairman, the appreciation of colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a good thing we finally got this report, regardless of any procedural deficiencies and misunderstandings within the commission. This report, as the Commission said in its last alley, is being delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for Knowledge and Notification on what was done in this case. And that's how it's supposed to end. However, they would not objectively move far away if we only took this into account. You need to look the truth into the eyes and some things to say here and do everything possible to increase the credibility of the institutions of this country, including respect for the House's decision on human rights, no matter what you think of it. Surely it is neither the first nor the final judgment that is final in this country that may have different calls for controversy, but that in no way means that anyone in this country has the right to deafen themselves to them, no matter what they think. And that's why we have to take full responsibility for this. It would be very bad for this information to be a cause for some new politicizing and creating an atmosphere that is for, and who is against the quotes of Algerians in this country, because it doesn't need any of us, or even the people who have complained to this, this commission. 81 Mr. Jahić has made several inaccuracies, I suppose. As I recall, as my colleague Palavrić would say, as she recalls, so do I, as I remember on 17.1.2002, were, this group known as eating colloquial Algerians, it was deported. They were not citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time of deportation. It changes the whole thing. The other thing is, some say it's not like that. But at least I'm telling you with the fact, so it was a deportation of people who were not citizens of this country at the time. This is Parliament, I have a responsibility to what I'm doing, as all of us need to remember those who know it, those who don't know it, that SFOR is, you see how we talked about SFOR today sending people into retirement without a pension. SFOR is the dai, here sits Mr. Belkić, Mr. Križanović, who remembers it, because they were members of the presidency, so what would be said as I recall, and I well remember SFOR gave the order that if these people were not deported from the country, after they were released from freedom that SFOR would arrest them and thus practically suspend the constitutional legal order of this country. We need to know what this is about. The then federal authorities and state authorities have acted in accordance with the country's existing laws and international commitments. So these people who, by law, lost their citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it was found that some of them, that I don't bother you very much, had a number of home numbers, names, places where they were born on the planet, etc. So they lost the citizenship of this country and they were deported. That's not what it says here. But it doesn't matter now. It doesn't matter now from this point of view and the point of view of the House of Human Rights Decision. The House of Human Rights ruled that injustice had been done to them and the Council of Ministers in which I sat in the technical mandate had been given the House of Human Rights Decision and made a decision, chairing Mr Mikerević was now the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska's decision to fully respect the House's human rights decision and to task all the relevant ministries to continue the procedure before the competent institutions. It was then concluded that, as far as I recall, and I well remember paying for the damages given by the Human Rights House by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, normally, to be subject to both federal and federal institutions and to having a conversation with these people through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the competent consular legal institutions with the help of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, then the Ministry of Justice is not... It's closed. And it was supposed to be realized a little over a year ago. I don't see from this whether it's real and if it's not why, and if it is to see what the state had to do with these people and to say it's settled. That's what I should have done. I think so. So what do we need to do? We should first be in charge of today, to reach a working conclusion that the Council of Ministers is in charge of fulfilling all obligations under the Human Rights House Decision and to provide information on what the competent state institutions are in line with their own conclusions with the international commitments and with the legal system of the country's tax system have made them respond to what this information is now talking about. 82 So, I think if we do something different, we'll get into one political thing that no one needs. I was here two years ago in front of Parliament when there was just one such atmosphere that could be created again, one group of people here, when the fighting population here had a protest over the martial law, when one group of really small groups of people, probably under the atmosphere that could be created if we were careless, unserious drunk with a bottle in their hands shouting Alah's agber, this is Algeria. Offered by the fact that there is a group to which there is therefore who the Bošnjak are not Algerians, this is not Algeria and we need the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina all to behave in the same manner as the Constitution of this country. That's exactly why I thought I wasn't talking, but I have a duty to speak because I know what this can come out of, and I'm afraid no one should. And also, since this topic asked us to conclude this occasion that the Council of Ministers made information about the deported citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2002 and 2003, from the point of view of violations of their human rights. Why am I saying this? In 2002, the same year that this happened, when 6 people from Bosnia and Herzegovina were deported to this country was deported, according to DGS only to international airports in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2005 people, citizens of BiH around the world, were picked up by local police, and they were put in their hands and said Vija Bosnia. This should be the subject of this commission's work to see if human rights are violated by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are somewhere by force of war opportunities and accidents have happened and have no papers and have not lied to anyone whether they have had a period of time in this country and then they pick up and return overnight. So I think it would be good, since this is a good reason for such information from the Council of Ministers, if you don't mind Mr. Chairman showing that we care about all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of this country in the same way when it comes to protecting human rights and deporting people from both BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Normally, once again, I underline by respecting every decision of the House of Human Rights and the competent judicial institutions without discussion until according to the law and the constitution and international norms the prescribed procedure is done, and we are obliged, and therefore the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I expected them here, and the Minister of Foreign Trade and Finance to sit here, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Minister of Security, could of course, and then discuss this a little more seriously. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12733	Mrs. Seada Palavrić first reported for the replica, and then Mr. Elvir Jahić, also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12734	I did not want to go down and return to that 16 January, however, I have to correct the wrong allegations here and say that it was not a deportation and that four of the six 83 people were citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and two foreigners with a stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, there was an order from the House of Human Rights on a provisional measure that I personally delivered to the House of Human Rights as a representative of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the House of Human Rights by the Minister of the Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Prime Minister Mr Behmen, on time, 7 p.m. 16 p.m. when people had not yet been released from custody. So my orders to the House of Human Rights came to me before. And I delivered it in good time. It wasn't done to her. I contacted the Federal Justice Minister, informing me that no country has filed an extradition request for these people. Nor has any country, our country could not make a decision on deportation, because even our laws, the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on Immigration and Asylum do not allow the extradition of any person, even though it was a foreigner in Bosnia and Herzegovina to a country where the possible exposure to the death penalty was prevented. It was quite obvious that if these people surrender to SFOR to be taken to America in America, the death penalty was not prohibited, and so the authorities at the time were evident, this was determined by the House of Human Rights in its decision that people had citizenship, and the two foreigners who had only a stay, even they should not have been extradited. So whether you have citizenship or not, you must not be a state that is a signator or an associate member of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and we are, the Convention has the power of constitutional provisions, so we must not extradite anyone to a country where there is a death penalty. And let's not go back at that time. The fact is that we need to establish and get a report on what Mr. Lagumdžija is saying, what was done in the realization of the House of Human Rights decision, but I only reported on account of the correction of the wrong allegations and the fact that the Supreme Court of the Federation itself released those people at midnight. Therefore, they were to be released from custody in the Federation, not handed over to anyone to be deported, especially in the way it was done.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12735	Thank you, Mr. Jahić, and then Mr. Lagudmžij. Just to hear the answer to this so we have some order, you'll get your word right away. Please, because Mr. Jahić has a reaction to that, that would be some order. Yeah, yeah, that'd be a turn. Well, he answered, it's not possible on her discussion, because he answered before her discussion, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12736	To all the members of the Commission, so our commission that took part in the work on this case, so before we go through the work and after that we adopted one principle, which is that there is no politicisation in this case. Not to protect those who did not in one rough way violate the human rights of these people, but to actually be able to respond positively to Mrs. Dizdarević's appeal, so that they referred to this commission, which 84 actually asked for the protection of its or her husband's human rights. And so surely it wasn't our intention to politicize, so we've made this decision already there's been a month, and it could have been seen by the media that neither in any other way was the politicization of this case. So the only wish and the only one we had was to help this person who was heading for us. I'd like to say now, since there was a talk here about a memory he doesn't remember, etc. All of these findings we've taken from the House's human rights decision. So we didn't do it in memory, but we copied it from the House of Human Rights document. I wouldn't want to be malice right now. Maybe someone remembers because they took part in all these events, but here I again appeal, let's really not politicize, let's really try to help these people who have turned to our commission to protect their rights. Surely this Mrs. Dizdarević didn't contact us to politicize. I also think that in any case we should see why and in what degree this decision of the House of Human Rights has been respected and we should make one record and we should follow what will be done in the future, but we can also ask this question so who is responsible, so since it is said that the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation, have violated all these human rights listed in the decision. Let's see who were the leaders of these institutions because they were therefore responsible for violating the human rights of this staff. We didn't mean to do it on purpose because we were heading towards helping a person, but I think we can really extend these conclusions so that we're looking for the responsibility of those leaders on these institutions who have brutally violated the fundamental human rights of these people. I also want to say that there is now a top topic in this fight for human rights around the world about the threat of human rights under the cover of terrorism. Surely terrorism must therefore be actively engaged in the fight against terrorism, but this must not go to the heart of the preservation and protection of human rights, and in particular it is not working in one way that I do not say such a thing under that battle against terrorism deliberately violates and suppresses human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12737	I thank Mr. Jahić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is correcting the false assumption, as far as I understand you, right, if you insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12738	Whatever you want. It's a replica anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12739	Please. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12740	First look at the magnetogram Mrs. Palavrić you said that when it happened on January 16th, look at the magnetogram, five minutes ago you said it was happening on January 16th. It wasn't January 16th, it was the 17th big difference. I just want to give you an example of how very dangerous it is to make such imprecise statements that can have terrible legal consequences. So when you don't remember the date, I can think of what else you remember then. However, from this report here, you can see that the Commission has held a conversation with a party who has complained here that it has in mind documents, correspondence by certain institutions in English and native language in which the party has delivered, a written statement by the party to the Commission and the decision of the House for Human Rights. So, the Commission did not find it appropriate at all, which I find entirely inappropriate to invite representatives, in particular its own Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Federal Ministry of Interior, etc. etc. Which and how much I can help to do here exactly what Mr. Jahić claims was the goal, which is to help whoever complained. I think what you're doing is not helping these people, but you're practically doing it this way, but you're practically politicizing it this way, and I think we can go on looking for the responsibility of those who led those people astray to think they were BH citizens. We can go that far and you'll see where we come from. We can ask for answers and determine the responsibility to investigate which international institutions are here in '92. And the 3rd was to get people to change the character of war in this country and to produce a frat-killer war where it wasn't there, etc. etc. We'll go far, then. And if we're going to help people who have complained, then we need to implement the House of Human Rights Decision, and that's why my proposal was to talk to all the horses, and to realize the decision of the House of Human Rights and to give us proper information, after a certain time that the Council of Ministers would make to tell us what they did, respecting everything that's been said here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12741	Mrs. Palavrić, the answer to the replica, right. Discussion, what's the matter with you? Replica. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare for the discussion, and you have the same discussion. What about you, Mr. Gligorić? Discuss, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12742	I'm really sorry this is going through this. The least important thing is that on January 16th and 17th, because that's exactly what it says in the House of Human Rights Decision, but please don't devalue the rest of what's going on. So, is that 16 or 17, the fact is that then the authorities, here I am now to say alliances at the head of all Mr. Lagumdžija have been given a timely order to the House of Human Rights, which has been executed not to extradite, nor to force these people from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 86 Whether at that time they had citizenship, and they were, or not, it was not relevant. Home ordered something that couldn't be discussed. Something that had to be respected. Don't come back at that time and don't really politicize this case, but let's fix what was then destroyed, which is corrupt, which is Bosnia and Herzegovina and how it cost the image when it comes to human rights. Don't, don't really, I didn't have a decision in front of me right now, but I know there's an object in the government's human rights office, there's every college, there's every conversation and seven hours ago and you knew you couldn't deport them, and you did it anyway, if you want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12743	Can we move on with the discussion? This really isn't leading us. Here you go. I don't mind, of course you have the right to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12744	Since you have personally spoken to Mrs. Palavrić, this will end any debate on this subject. I said everything I needed. What you've done is brutally politicizing and setting me up and what you're doing is exactly what nobody here needs to do, and that's to turn the people you belong to and I belong to into something that we're not. We are not Algerians, this is not Algerian, and here every citizen of this country should be entitled to comply with the Constitution of this country. And everything you do next in the way you've done so far, I reserve my right to just shut up, because it's embarrassing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12745	Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12746	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this report has been fraternizing me, primarily as a man, and then as a member of this House. And why was he fraternizing me? He was fraternizing me because I got into the hands of a piece of paper called the report of a legal commission that worked, and in the end it was suspected that it was part of the legality of this job, so it was corrected, and I never doubted it was illegal, and I accepted it as it is. And then, normally, with a series of contents, I tried to, as a man and as a Parliamentarian, look at the weight of the matter being treated by this report. Suddenly, when we came to this point on the surface, there were two truths that were totally contrary to each other. I'm just starting to think about the truth that I'm talking about right now. I'll talk about the truth I got in writing. I will and I will ask to apologize to someone if that other truth is right for me to sit down and think and give my judgment tomorrow and for that truth. If what's written in the report is true, and here I'm going to accept at least part that it is, so I'm going to accept that 10% of it is true, then 87 I don't think in this kind of relationship you can talk about the state. She's gone, for me. I, as a man, would have to think if I were a citizen, now I am speaking on that assumption to come into this situation to think about where to run under this celestial cap from that country and to find a country that will protect me, because the state as an apparatus has one of the basic tasks to protect its citizen. I'm saying everything again under this assumption. Please, I'm not interested in the depth of relationships and conditions in terms of who was when and at what time he was in what position. Now all I'm talking about is the matter that's been trained in the report. This whole act is also a valid procedure presented in the report of the shameful act of this state. It is clear evidence that it meant nothing at that time, or that it was someone's private and normal that it could be used as an apparatus and as a force to do what it did. This is what I think and precedent, at the same time the world group and the shame. And in order for me not to prejudge the matter, I'm left in the context of what's written, and if that's true, I'm behind this. If not true, and if true, that second-rate truth is given to me to correct and probably give a second opinion on the matter. And in order for this parliament to be in a position that there are no two conflicting substances per thing today, I suggest that the Council of Ministers, or form a committee, or use the institutions that are at its disposal to clear the problem and deliver it in the form of information to this Parliament that we can really take those positions with them, and ask for on behalf of the state and on behalf of this Parliament further steps to take, what is said to be taken to help, but I would always as a man represent and represent, however, whether there was a guilty person, if there was either in one or another case, and that I could judge myself as a man. That's my suggestion on this... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12747	They warned me, I did not follow this monitor here, Mr. Selim Bešlagić is already reporting for discussion. Is that correct, sir? Mr. Gligorić, you will wait, Mr. Bešlagić signed up before you, so you will get the word. I gave you a word like that on your hand, yes, but he's registered here. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12748	22, I think 26 of us are still in Parliament, so here's the thing. I'm a member of the Commission and I've accepted this report, and here he is, and I think here I am now paraphrasing some things. I'm not exactly on the committee, we're not having this debate, we're having a debate on how and what to do to help people get out of jail. I beg you don't make us guides that lead to not coming. That's below 1. 88 Under 2. Zlatko Lagumdžija said the adopted decision was made by the House of Human Rights and that the Ministry and the government in charge is continuing to do so. The conclusion of all this debate was that the government should submit to us what was taken, if it wasn't to be taken according to conclusions. Is someone going to be responsible for it? It's not this home. Let this home say that certain institutions are doing their job and if they have to put everyone in jail, but if we're going to accuse ourselves here, I won't sit down as an MP. I don't accept there's no state. If there's no state, I'm not sitting here as an MP. I can make peace with the fact that someone is making us hats, that we are, let me say impotent, etc., but I will fight with all my strength that this Parliament has its strength and power to tell both UmPROFOR and the international community that we must assume fate in our own hands. For these reasons, I ask you chair, as a member of the Commission, I have accepted with the supplements that I have received that means there is a decision that the Council of Ministers has given the order to help people. I ask that this institution, meaning our ministerial council, or competent institutions, say what it is done and that it means to pass this conclusion to the Commission and to make it seem like people are being helped to return, and if someone is going to be responsible for it, there are other institutions. Please hold as high as Parliament, and I will never say there is no state. I can be mad at us, but if there's no state then we sit here for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12749	Please, please. I ask the MPs, first of all, to sit in their seats and staff of Parliament. So that's one thing. The other thing, the other thing, please do not lead among yourselves unnecessary dialogue, so that we can normally continue to work even though we are on the very edge of the quorum, unfortunately, is that we listen to each other. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12750	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we try to bring an end, and this report, which MPs have, of course, can be complemented and I share the opinion of Mr. Bešlagić, who signed our wish, that is, the intention that we in the commission help people if we can, if no one has proven their guilt and based on the decision of the House of Human Rights which is final and binding and this is the limit of humanity and humanity that we have accepted in the commission and from that limit to say humanity and humanity, we have come to these conclusions and the findings in the report itself. I'm glad that we didn't really have this kind of debate within the commission and we made it clear that we didn't want to politicise that kind and there's no need for that. Perhaps if there had been such a debate on the commission, it might have helped the Commission in some way to extend it in that case to say my views, let me put it so conditionally and say 89 then propose to the Council of Ministers or others, but specifically to the Council of Ministers as an executive authority who probably has more information, because there were more factors in this event on 17 January, etc. Therefore, I do not think it would be a problem for MPs to accept perhaps the proposal of Mr Lagumdžija's conclusion that he extended it to the executive authority with the aim of making one information and delivering it to us afterwards, and that we accept this report so as not to put up with people if they were really unjustly sitting in prison and without the difference that people on the planet are doing if they were part of or what was happening to them to our country. In this way, I think that we could get out of this and not possibly expand this debate but go in this direction, accept the Commission's report not to suffer people, that the Council of Ministers of this report takes appropriate measures in terms of asking for the release of these people and this sadification that goes on and on, and in this way we would realize the decision of the House for Human Rights, while at the same time asking the Council of Ministers to supplement one, i.e. to make information related, because everything needs to be observed at a given moment and given time, and there were more factors and we will thus get practical information here which will be objectively broader in relation to the report of this committee which nevertheless had the task, the notion of the particular person we discussed. Here, that's my suggestion and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12751	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Živković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12752	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm electronically logged in, but here's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12753	What if you were
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12754	It was electronic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12755	I apologize if there's been a mistake. It's not my intention at all. Believe me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12756	No problem. Back-up with your hand. In any case, about these two points that we've been considering here for more than two hours, we've mentioned countless times the human rights and human rights decisions of the House of Human Rights. I think it would be fair to say that although it is not 90 points of the agenda that we have mentioned those other human rights decisions that have been taken by the Parliament, and, mentioning 11.2.2004 when it was stated in the conclusions that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina was in charge, that, in co-operation with the Federation Government, the immediate provision of the implementation of the Human Rights House's decisions concerned pensions towards the place where they were achieved, that the Commission for Human Rights and Refugees gave its report on this. I think it's fair to talk about human rights violations in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not only to a small number of people, in this case an Algerian group, when we have a larger number of people, a much larger number of people where the decision of the House of Human Rights found that they're breaking human paupers and that with this attitude, where we're going to put things on the surface, if it's in someone's interest, and other things are buried under the mat that way we're never going to enter Europe, because everyone who's looking at this, and I know they're going to tell us in their report that we're constantly breaking human rights on that basis and on that background we're never coming to Europe. Therefore, I propose that this, this report be returned to the Human Rights Commission, the immigration of refugees, that the Commission consider what we have discussed here and ask the Council of Ministers what has been done in relation to the decision of the House of Human Rights, but in all so far the decisions that have been made for human rights, what the Council of Ministers has done. And that is why we are considering this account, and this congregation now does.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12757	I thank Mr. Džaferović. He'll help me with the conclusions. Actually, he was following up on the debate. Mr. Jahić, you did look for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12758	So I would just remind myself, therefore, that I fully agree with Mr Živković, there are a lot of cases of violations of basic human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is certain that this parliament, especially this commission, is one of the places where it is to be discussed and to determine the actual situation. I'd just remind you of the following. Among other things, the Commission is working in part on concrete complaints from the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this report is the result of an appeal by a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen. So we responded to that citizen's complaint just like it was about the Arizona Markets case when she was a group of citizens. So this report cannot be brought, so I agree again on many violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we should discuss it, but this report is exclusively related to a concrete complaint by the citizens who have been referred to us. And in the last part of our information, that is to say, we've been looking for information from the Council of Ministers within a month and we're sure to follow all other decisions and follow up on the realisation of our decisions by the Council of Ministers. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12759	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12760	I just want to join Mr. Živković's proposal, but in return, please allow the Secretariat of our home to obtain all the decisions of the House of Human Rights relating to pensions of citizens from Republika Srpska in relation to the Federation pension fund and to be delivered to us. I don't think that's going to require a great deal of expense, but really, as someone who advocates human rights and the implementation of all the decisions of the House of Human Rights, I can't bear to think that we're talking about something countless times, and believe me, we're talking casually. Therefore, I insist that we conclude, regardless of this point, that this report is not about one complaint, with this report to conclude that we are being delivered to all decisions of the House of Human Rights which have been decided on requests for applications from the Federation that are now in Republika Srpska, and have requested that their pension be paid out of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pension fund.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12761	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović. Replica Mr. Živković, excuse Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12762	We have already elaborated this issue once, and I have no need to communicate with Mrs Palavrić in this way for the simple reason that I feel that if one decision has been taken on one principle in the House of Human Rights, it should not be based on the fact that the other 200,000 citizens are looking for their rights on the same basis. So don't hide behind the fact that only three people have put up with it when we know well that, on the same basis, 200 thousand other citizens have the right to gain. We want to torture our citizens and ask each of them to submit to the House of Human Rights. So let's talk about it when those decisions come and then we open up the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12763	Mrs. Palavrić. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12764	I allow it to be and
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12765	Let's go back to the debate box 92.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12766	We will return within the framework of Mr. President, however, Mr. Živković said something that does not stand. It would be good if when you make precedents that they really apply. However, we have two decisions at home. In one he decided on three requirements and said that since these people have returned to the Federation, they should suffer the costs of the Federation to be paid off by funds from the Federation Fund. The second decision of the House is the opposite. The applicant was rejected because the person did not return to the Federation. And let's take these two precedents and it'll be easy for everyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12767	Thank you. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12768	Does that mean you need to take out a ticket to get a pension somewhere? Is that all you have to do to get your ID out?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12769	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12770	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I honestly believe that this Parliament should be on the side of the protection of human rights, regardless of whether it is individual or collective human rights. However, we are today discussing our commission's report on Mrs Dizdarević's arrival. You see, there's nothing in the report that we didn't know until now. I don't think Mrs. Dizdarević has spoken to our commission that she has concluded that the history of a certain event has been under way, but I suppose as a damaged party she is asking this parliament to help her realize the House's decision on human rights. It's nothing to argue with. I therefore believe that we have really wasted a lot of time needlessly and that it would be much more useful in this regard if our commission, as a parliamentary commission, had asked the competent executive authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the Court's decision, the House of Human Rights decision. All that includes care for the conditions for the maintenance of penalties and possible release. I therefore believe that the only relevant conclusion is that either the commission actually tries to continue its work in this regard or that one of the main conclusions of this House is to commit the Council of Ministers to the need to, in cooperation with other relevant authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are involved in this case and to which the House's decision on 93 human rights is to speed up and implement this. Here's the point of what I think we should do as Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12771	Thank you. Please, MPs, we are now at the limit of the quorum and I, as chairman, can direct the debate to bring the agenda to an end. I think it's an interest. Here's how much I see the debate is exhausted. Do you accept such an approach? Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I think we can finish the agenda quickly and we shouldn't interrupt and end today's session. I'm asking for a little more patience. And now I'm going to ask Mr. Džaferović to resume the debate, and I think we should accept this report for knowledge, and that the competent institutions should follow the assessments we received here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12772	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so we all witnessed a variety of different proposals when it comes to this item of the agenda. If a person wanted to sum it up and keep within the borders of the Rules of Procedure and focus on the specific point of the agenda, then these are some parameters that I used to run, then all these suggestions could be placed in one conclusion that had several points. So first this home needs, as in the previous case, a case we discussed here to receive information as suggested. Secondly, as in the previous case, this home should give full support to the views of our commission on refugees, human rights, immigration and asylum, and these attitudes are actually activities taken by this commission. Because you see, the Commission has accepted the conclusions of the House of Human Rights, adopted other conclusions, ordered all authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement that decision, asked the competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to urgently, with the US authorities, urgently initiate the process of returning the party's wives and others in this case of those detainees from the Guantanamo military base in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then, international legal documents on the protection of human rights and freedoms, etc. So this is what the Commission has already done. She made certain requests, and that went to certain addresses. So this is a job that's already done. And when I say that the Commission, that Parliament supports the Commission's views, then of course I mean what the Commission has already done. 94 And the third thing that is today the sum of all these discussions is that Parliament, whether it is Parliament directly now or whether we ask the Commission to ask the Commission to do so, evaluate that. I think that, as we are already discussing, Parliament can do this, we ask the competent state authorities to which this information has been provided by the Commission for the conclusions to inform us whether they have done anything according to the Commission's conclusions. That's what I could do as some general conclusions to record and expose them here. Mr. Chairman, there were, of course, other individual proposals here that weren't specifically related to this case, but in some relationship, they're not directly connected to the case, but they're in some relationship with this case, at least from the point of view of human rights violations, even if it was just a relationship. You heard some of those suggestions Mr. Živković was talking about. Mr Lagumdžija made one proposal to ask the Council of Ministers for 2002 which is the number of persons that 2000 and, I apologize in 2002 and 2003, which is the number of persons deported to Bosnia and Herzegovina but I say, if we follow the strict subject, the item of the agenda, stick to the Rules of Procedure and respect what our commission has done, are the only possible conclusions. So we accept the report, we take note of the Commission's report, we support the Commission's views, so we ask our commission and third for state authorities, state and entity federal in this case, which have been delivered to the Commission's conclusions, in which they point out certain requirements of what they have done. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12773	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12774	I'm just two interventions to Mr. Džaferović's exposure, which is under 1. The Commission cannot bid the decision of the House for Human Rights. She has accepted and accepted the House's decision on human rights. So there's no statement of acceptance or no decision-making. That's one thing. And below 2. The Commission cannot transfer its executive decisions directly to the executive body of government such as the Council of Ministers. This must be done by Parliament. So Parliament communicates with the Council of Ministers and Authorities, not the Commission directly with its decisions and conclusions. So the Commission's executive decisions must be verified at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, or the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12775	Here's Mr. Džaferović. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12776	Mr. Avdić, I'm afraid we didn't understand each other very well, so I fully accept that not only this commission, but this Parliament and no one in the world has the right to recite with the decisions of the Court and the House of Human Rights. So that's a good, well-known thing to me. And another thing about this Commission conversion. Look, if you've been following Mr. Jahić, this commission, when it comes to violations of the rights of several persons, therefore groups or more, then this commission, that is, when it comes to individual infringements, acts by making direct conclusions and directing them to the competent authorities with its demands. And when it comes to collective first, as I understand Mr. Jahić, then the thing goes to an unidentified collective, then the thing goes to Parliament, and by that principle we, this one called, had a point of the agenda before this. That may be what you failed to notice, and I am accepting it from the Commission president's presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12777	Okay. Thank you very much. So I suggest we accept these conclusions as they are. Mr. Lagumdžija, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12778	The conclusion is the first, in addition to all of this, not denying what is said here, I do not think they are in collegiate, because many of the things that are said here are certainly in the collapsing that are already said by Mr Džaferović, that I am not opening the debate. So I ask you to make it clear that the Council of Ministers is preparing information on the implementation of the House of Human Rights Decision with a plan of action at its full implementation. Please, precisely, quite precisely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12779	Okay. It's okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12780	That's one conclusion. The second conclusion was that the Council of Ministers made information on the deported citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2002 and 2003 from the point of view of human rights protection. There's no problem. There's no need to open a debate. Make a statement, be against it. There's no problem. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12781	Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. All right. I suggest, for me, these conclusions are personally acceptable with those proposed by Mr. Džaferović. I think we can put this to a vote in the package. Thank you very much. So I suggest we get to the bottom of this. Mr. Jahić. But I think this is a correct conclusion, as far as I can tell, they're complete. In addition to these three conclusions on the receipt of information to support the Commission's findings, the request for further follow-up to the Komsiija's conclusions and requests to the Council of Ministers, these two conclusions were proposed by Lagudmžij, which would be five conclusions. I suggest we make a statement about them. Please let Dom plead. Vote now. I agree that with 28 votes for, no one against, no one against, two abstentions, with the necessary entity majority, we accepted the Human Rights Commission's report, the immigration of the refugee and the asylum on the party's Nadže, Nadža Dizdarević, with these five conclusions proposed by Mr Džaferović and Mr Lagumdžija. Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th point. That's Ad.10. Information on the financing of municipal elections in 2004 You received this information from the Election Commission. For your information, we held an extended college this morning to find a method and way to determine the House of Representatives and the Parliament as a whole according to this request of the Election Commission, all in the function of local elections in 10 months this year in Bosnia and Herzegovina with quality preparations and according to the Election Law. In this regard, we believe that it would be a good conclusion of this home that the Council of Ministers in coordination with entity governments provides mechanisms and ways to ensure the means to conduct municipal elections, but we also have a member of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, Vehid, Mr Vehid Šehić, so if he feels the need to address the House, I give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Šehić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12782	I'm thanking you. I am pleased that after human rights we can also talk about civil rights and I must point out the co-operation of this home when it comes to supporting 97 of the Election Commission to allow 2 million and 400 thousand citizens of this country to choose in October whether to use their passively attractive electoral right. In fact, the Election Commission is already at a stage when it must alarm the institutions of this state in the first row of the House of Parliament, this House of Parliamentary Assembly, which we are responsible for working on because certain deadlines are approaching, which is why some significant financial resources are needed. So far, I have to tell you that according to the approved budgets of the municipalities that are legally required to finance these elections, the total according to the planned and projected budget by the Electoral Commission was accepted 75%, so instead of 3 million 322 thousand, some 2 million and 500 000 were accepted, and some millions and 700 thousand have been paid from that amount so far. Out of the total amount paid so far 51%. I must point out that 8 municipalities from the Federation, 8 municipalities, from Republika Srpska are absolutely not intended to hold elections in 2004. We felt that, in accordance with our constitutional powers, the House of Representatives or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina used those powers and, through the Council of Ministers, obliged the entity authorities to comply with the obligation to hold elections, not for Europe, but for those 2 million and 400,000 citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12783	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12784	My colleagues and colleagues, of course, I am in favour of this home being a supporter of one of these, I would say to the request, because in the electoral procedure we can already say that we have entered and it is simply an obligation for all those who have in this part of the job and the obligation to do so. I just wanted to remind myself of one intensities from the last amendments and the addition of the Electoral Law that we kind of adopted and installed in the text of the Law, which is precisely when it comes to funding that in some way, at least I understood it, and I was also in the working group that prepared the amendments to the law that for the part of the work you are implying, and of course the explicit commission, the Electoral Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that part of the work, whether it is a general or municipal election, falls within the competence of the Electoral Neighbour of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so to cover this kind of cost, should provide funding in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for this occasion, obviously, I was not present when Budget was adopted, it doesn't matter, he was adopted, but perhaps this particular occasion needs the Election Commission at the same time, but also us who participate in adoption, before those who participate in the proposal of the Budget, to remind us of such understanding of the last amendments of the Election Law, which means the implementation of elections as an obligation of national importance, regardless of the level at which they are, should not depend on participation, especially for that part of the obligations that the Election Commission has as a body that implements all this together to the greatest extent, of so 98 participations from the municipal level, etc. Especially considering the objective difficulties many municipalities have. Well, that's all I wanted to say, of course, by supporting this, and here's what you were talking about at the College. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12785	Thank you very much. Searched. Gligorić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12786	Thank you very much, let me note that, in addition to funding the next municipal elections, there is one more thing that I think the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina must pay attention to. I spent the last weekend in a part of our diaspora, and we completely forget about that diaspora. The fact is that in Germany alone, we have 168 thousand people, and in the last elections, we have about 10,000 votes of people who voted for the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. An exceptional example of the practice of the DKP network was in Stuttgart where the viceconsul, with each passport, was newly issued, decided to send a passport to the person receiving the passport, a request for registration of voters for the next municipal elections with instructions on how to do so. Therefore, I ask you, with this agenda point, that I propose that the BiH Parliamentary House of BiH requires the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver to all the DKPs a guide to make sure that the DKP network throughout the world commits immediately, using its own database on issued travel documents, because they have addresses for each BiH citizen resident in BiH, to provide a form for the registration of voters for the upcoming municipal elections in BiH, scheduled for 2 October 2004, with instructions to fill it out, which documents should be attached to the copy and to which address they should be sent by 10 June, because by 17. they should arrive. What doesn't arrive won't even be registered. And the second part of the conclusion that the BiH MIP informs the home by June 15th this year about its impact and impact on the DKP network on the issue. Thank you very much. Here's the conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12787	Thank you. Is there more? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12788	...we received further information from Mr. Šehić on behalf of the BiH Election Commission. I believe that what the chairman said and what was agreed on at the Enlarged College may be our working conclusion and that we are not wasting time repeating that in the coordination of the Council of Ministers with everything to be provided, because the Election Commission 99 has its own plan and this hodogram, of course, which should follow the financial means and in this case some funds missing from 700 thousand marks should be provided and that the sooner and the sooner and I think in that proposal the conclusion should say that it is 30 days to provide financial support, because the elections of one state job, which measures one democracy and tomorrow to say that you have no financial resources and that this is why there is no choice in some country, would be qualified as simply a lack of democracy in that country. Therefore, the financial situation is difficult in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there cannot really be a reason not to support it within a reasonable period of time so as not to delay the work envisaged by the Election Commission as a whole. Therefore, I would suggest that we do not have a debate on this subject, because we are really clear and we have a good conclusion proposal, we should support it, and in this way I think that within 30 days, asking those who sent it again means that they will inform us of the realization of that conclusion after perhaps another deadline of 20 days after the expiry of the deadline when they will need to provide those funds. Whether from the budget reserve, in some other way, of course I leave it to the executive authority to end it together with the Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12789	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12790	Mr. Chairman, I've heard two truths here. Now I don't know which one's true. The first said Mr. Šehić and said the law was regulated so that municipalities finance the elections. The second I heard one claim Mr. Ćeman made as president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House and now I heard that one part of the funds was paid to the election commission, and the other one remained uncovered. This conclusion and this kind of thinking will not lead us to a solution. I'm asking you to clean it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12791	Mr. Ćeman. Please focus on the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12792	A colleague of Moranjkić has no contradiction to what I was saying and Mr. Šehić. In fact, here's the conclusion, you see how things are precise about funding there. I just wanted to draw attention to this aspect of the amendments to the law, and, of course, the municipalities have according to the law that has been in force and which applies their obligations to finance the selection of procedures and therefore the electoral authorities, etc. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12793	Thank you very much for making more reports. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please, I think it's a good thing we put this on the agenda. Some municipalities are indeed in a particularly difficult financial situation, and it is good that Parliament has the responsibility to find a solution together with the Election Commission on its suggestion so that local elections can be held in all municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina without interference and quality. I return to the proposal of the conclusions adopted by consensus at the Expansive College. It means that we can't hire anyone else except the Council of Ministers, but that in coordination with entity governments and lower levels, whether the county governments, or the municipal finds mechanisms by 25.6. we told us to secure the necessary funds because we received information that the municipalities started to pay and that those through rebalancing can possibly secure their quota by the end of the year and settle those funds. I think it's a correct conclusion, that it's giving us enough time and that it makes us all responsible for this process and with these conclusions that we've established today at the Expansive College. We had the conclusions that Mrs Palavrić suggested regarding the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the registration and notification of voters through the diplomatic consular network. I personally believe we can support those conclusions and deadlines. They usually do that to get information by 15.6. Can we conclude this way? I suggest we say yes to the vote on this. Please vote now. Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted these conclusions. There is also a respected minister, Mrs Marić, who has always been in the role of the general good, and I hope that 25.6. we will all find together mechanisms that can ensure the smooth conduct of the local elections. I thank you. We're going to the 11th point. That's Ad.11. Information on the export and import licences issued and military equipment in the last year Information was provided to you on 22.4. The information was also discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want to talk about this? No one. 101 So things are under control when it comes to exporting and importing weapons of military equipment. Don't ask any questions later. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We take the report to the knowledge. I don't think we should vote on that, because there were no additional conclusions. Can we conclude this way? Thank you very much. We're going to the 12th point. That's Ad.12. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility on 31 December 2003 You've reached 22.4. As it stands in the memo, we are delivered for information. I'm opening a debate on this information. So we're satisfied with the way and the degree of borrowing. Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12794	I have this question. I'm interested, I've read this, I'm interested in whether this is our BiH overall responsibility in this information and if there are any other grounds for this country's debts? Because if you open up the means of formation, of newspapers, of television and of radio, then another is mentioned. I'm interested in whether these are really misinformation sent to this citizen or is this official to say by these means that they don't publish these other things? I don't doubt it. People write.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12795	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12796	I heard someone took a loan from Pakistan, and then someone said it was a donation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12797	Thank you very much. Is there any need for more raps? There isn't. I'm closing up. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12798	It's close to the agenda point. It would be very interesting if we got a notice like this from the ministry that they were spent in, so transparently, it's not enough just to say, for example, that it's in mining. What kind of mining and what side of the country? I'd like to take a look at it, very interestingly. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12799	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing up. Is there a need for a minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. This information on the state of foreign duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 32.12.2003 is being received from us. I find that the House of Representatives has received this information. We're going to the 13th point. That's Ad.13. Giving consent to ratifying the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning this item of the agenda was a requirement to get someone at today's session who can competently explain this issue, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked. I give my word to Minister Ljekri Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12800	I welcome all present. This is about ratifying the First Amendment to a credit agreement with Iberdea number 474. So this was the first MIP's duty to show up here and now say he's proposing, etc. But since the MIP hasn't come, and since the MIP is normally in charge of these other things and since we're preparing this, it's financial, it's about the next one. The loan agreement and called the Emergency Reconstruction Project for Transport between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 5.12.96. And it's this original paper. He was ratified a year after 5:12.97. years and published. The Agreement treats everything. Bosnia and Herzegovina subscribingly gives entities parts the possibility of borrowing and is listed in Section A and Section B of exactly what this applies. When they considered, these means subsidically, so there is a part that applies to the airport, part of it applies to the rehabilitation of the airport, part of it refers to some roads, etc. And that's the basis for starting the conversation. So sections and said goods for part A2 related to the Sarajevo airport navigation system of 5 million 296, now they say this – we do not need this much at the airport, so we ask that this amendment is – that the goods for part A2 are now 4 million 772,500 and are changing further, but the total amount of the basic agreement of 32 million and that 710 remains the same. They're changing the meaning of individual paragraphs. Is that clear? So in 1, 2, 3. The professor was talking now. So the amendment is, they agreed, this is subsidiary. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12801	Please, if there are any questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12802	So the total amount of debt remains the same. Except for the way they pay off, it just means they're praying now that, these means that they're actually in charge of airports, road directors, they're praying to redistribute it, and then they file a request, and then the bank, then the bank.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12803	I'm asking for intercessors.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12804	But it's important to pass now, because the end of June is possible to do this. And so we pray and pray as the Council of Ministers, since these have agreed to the airport and everyone else to adopt it, ratify it and to go here. Is she all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12805	Is there a need? Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12806	First, I thank the minister for coming out here to explain to us what someone else needed to explain. I totally agree. It's probably why we're being explained this way. If one of you is now more clear than it was before, then it really means that this long flow didn't take part, it affected our power of judgment more significantly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12807	We're a little bit more in session than you are, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12808	No, I believe I might be a little tired. I've only learned from this, Mr. Raguž, that the only thing I've come to understand from this opening statement is that 5 million and something for the airport is going to be 4 and something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12809	She didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12810	Great. If it makes any sense to you. I mean, you know what. Like this, a joke to the side. I think I'm gonna have to get serious first, because I'm afraid this is all just not funny. 104 for those who don't remember the paper we had last time in the material, so maybe they didn't take it with them now, it's about 32,710 thousand American dollars. And we're told this is just a ratification. Which means you just wave and we'll move on. It's definitely all divided. So, the explanation that we got, the least we could do is not an explanation. We from this material at all, first of all, from the material that we got, you can't see at all what purpose it was for, and for which purposes it is now going. You can't see it from this, and from what you just told us, you can only see that something from what was no longer goes for what was, but goes for something that might be. There's no problem. Here we are, I was expecting to say that Corridor C's will be found in our first paper on eberdea. The European Development Bank has killed itself to support projects such as Corridor V-c. There's no such thing here. There isn't. There's no such thing here. He can't even say it. He can't because someone made a deal to be different. Mr. Chairman, I find the argument entirely inappropriate, insufficient and I believe that there are people who know what this is all about, but we as MPs are not familiar with the way it should guide us and that we should decide on a measure of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12811	Here you go, Mrs. Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12812	It's a '96 credit agreement. The year that was concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and ratified means 5.12.'97. A year. Under this Agreement, under its Section A, part of the goods assets, for Part A listed in the basic agreement and which is written in the amended amendment I, should be part of the A2 goods, refer to the Sarajevo airport navigation system of 5,296.500,00, as the basis for the initiation of the procedure for the conclusion of the amendments to the agreement. The goods for part A3 were supposed to mean '96. The years when we agreed, someone who had been and signed this agreement, referred to a flight control of $3,465,000. Works for part A1 relating to the habilitation of Sarajevo airport worth $3m 950. Work for part B1 by the projects that were then offered... '96. The year this schedule was made, and then they agreed on who would implement it. In the meantime, these signs that have implemented this have written the request to eberdea in a way that they have said – we have implemented di oi we suggest that you now come out to meet us and respect us next. So the Federation and the Republika Srpska that were working for Sarajevo in the Federation, which was done in Banja Luka for Republika Srpska, to change us. The amendment consists of 105 next – that means making a new schedule of credit funds by category. Instead of goods for part A2 related to the Sarajevo airport navigation system of $5m, 296, it will now be 4,772.500,00. The part relating to goods for Part A3 for flight control of 3,465 will now be 2 and 715. etc. means the total part, by the way that they added, obviously within the part of C of the project relating to the installation development programmes, introduces a new category C5, and refers to the development of a feasibility study in relation to the Banja Luka – Gradiška pathway, etc. And so the total amount that was here was 32 million 710. This could only be debated by those who had already subsidized themselves and received what they had received. So Republika Srpska is applying to eberdeu for part of the funds they have already received. There was no redistribution between entities. There was no redistribution between entities. It agrees with the Federation on the overall amendment, gives RS consent to the overall amendment and we have these consents attached here. The procedure is followed. There is no procedure if the Federation has something against the adjudication of the agreement and means in the attachment we have consent, except for the Presidency's decision, we have the Federation and Republika Srpska's consent to what I'm saying. So this is what we've done for all the changes in credit agreements so far. Here is an opinion here on the first amendment of Republika Srpska and here is the meaning of the Federation. And that's it. And now it means after all the procedures, after all these consent procedures we as a state, because we don't owe ourselves directly, we don't still have that right, but it remains subcidy on them still, we do that in the procedure we propose this. And nothing else. It's nothing new.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12813	Thank you very much. I think this really was now a completely exhaustive explanation. I still have Gligorić, so Belkić. That's the order, sir. Please. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12814	Ladies and gentlemen, what the minister has now explained to us is not questionable about the package. Inside that package we have a cube of A and B. When we talk about two airports in Sarajevo and Banja Luka, it is obvious that about 2 million dollars and some dollars are taken away from them and that it is transferred to square C for the meaning of transport, road, etc. I have one question since this amendment has been agreed by some policy, to the harm of airports, to navigation, to flight control, to the circumstances of my time when I was a minister, Mrs. Fatima Leho has been even for a time as deputy and has been the leader of this BH CD, as the directorate says, and I know, given the circumstances how much longer it takes to be done when it comes to navigation, control of the sky, etc. etc. 106 In order for the airport's safety and everything to be and now someone has agreed to remove it from that position and build something third, here is the specific road road to Banja Luka – Gradiška. I'm asking one question now. Is it possible that this part is made politically in order to run an election campaign and to enable someone who can't get $2 million in this way to study feasibility and project documentation, etc. And what's there about signing a year ago is promised that the money has been provided now in this way by amending to an agreement with eberdea we come into a position to take off these important items and work again. I want to speak realistically, not in terms of whether or not it needs a part of it etc., we can discuss it and go to Banja Luka and say that I am telling some stories against RS, but really this is one political deal, this is one election campaign, it aims to take off the funds that were previously agreed and to do something else and if it comes to Parliament in a way that we support it - which is just then we do not know what is going on outside of this Parliament, or the decisions of executive bodies that are not available to this Parliament. I therefore believe that this should not be supported and that this amendment really speaks a lot about how the rule is being exercised in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12815	...no purpose whatsoever, because we just have to face each other. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in charge of the essential debt of entities because they have money, because the state does not have original funding, because they pay off. The state gives them a license, because I can't be in charge outside, we license them, the firm. So the schedule and everything else is the entity. The real thing is when we come, the real thing is when the state's priorities are determined. This is what Gligorić speaks of priorities that are of interest to everyone. Mr. Jović asks let's take a micro to see what region we're about to come to see how much people owe in this whole thing. Well, I see, I see, Mr. Jović. I see, I see, I see, I understand. It's okay. Not just a replica. There's no need. I understand what you're asking. I understand. So as long as the situation is like this we're just a flow water heater, we've granted a license to entities to be in debt. They determine priorities and they redeploy. Let's fight to make it different. Now we can't change anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12816	Thank you very much. Yes, you did, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12817	Of course. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12818	Well, here's this extra explanation of the minister, I just want to make sure that there's a lead to saying and I'm figuring out the fact that what Beriz said is true. The state has never even been in debt from Dejton to this day, so this isn't any innovation. We've ratified every time. However, the state has mechanisms to influence appropriate priorities and to coordinate certain activities that are inter- and inter-entity. At least that's not controversial. And that's why we're verifying this. If entities were to agree, and at the state level there would be no willingness to accept such a thing because it is from the point of view of the whole, and in accordance with the Constitution of this country does not meet the needs, then they could also be in the negotiations phase, so there is coordination between the resolute minister and the entity ministers to take care of these matters. So to realize that even here, it wasn't at all taken care of on the national level what the interest of this is, but we simply got the entity requirements packages, they reorganized within what they set out themselves what needs to be arranged, and now we need to wave here to figure it out. However, Mr. Chairman, I would like something more to be determined here, that there is no Corridor V-c again in these priorities. So just to be determined. Because we are in the last session of this house, a number of us have raised hands against the appointment of concrete people in the concessions commission and immediately a number of you here from the parliamentary majority have tried to explain that Corridor V-c is late because whoever's staying joined the unprincipled Party for BiH, the SDS and the PDP around the concession commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12819	Aren't they?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12820	You joined Mr. Džaferović with your council of ministers against Corridor V-c and this is proof of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12821	Thank you very much. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12822	First of all, I can't help but overshut my comment by my colleague Džaferović, because you didn't even know what was next in the order of moves when a group of parliamentarians in this house or in that room downstairs warned about the need to form a concession commission. Therefore, to object to the stranac to BiH, or to individuals of the Party for BiH, to obstruct the formation of a concession commission that we have urged to establish at least 10 times as soon as possible for the parliamentary speaker, the least we can say is unfair to colleagues and colleagues in this House, regardless of whether we agree or disagree. 108 The second I really need to do something, although I didn’t have much information about the particular problem ahead of us if it can be called a problem, many, because of many ambiguities, unfortunately I have to say that we are not very much or very enriched with information that would satisfy many MPs here who need to verify the amendment to this agreement. I have a need to mention it, and my colleague Lagumdžija is right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12823	I ask the MPs to respect the fact that others are speaking and that we should listen to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12824	It is true that the state is not in debt, but the state is set by debt, and don't forget that, because we don't accidentally ratify agreements, credit agreements. The credit agreement was signed by the state finance and vault minister, in the event of any obligation by the state, by international law, by international debt, and we are in debt in international financial institutions. Because some entity eventually does this or what, it's not that it's none of our business. And this is about the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just want to remind you, although probably Mrs. Leho knows a little bit more, because as far as I know, this was signed at a time when Mrs. Leho was at the Treasury Ministry or coordinating activities related to civilian aviation. This is a loan that Bosnia and Herzegovina repays for goods, i.e. equipment that has never been delivered. So it's never been used, and this is just a redistribution of funds, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12825	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12826	But it was funny this comment of yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12827	If it's necessary, I'll interrupt my colleague's chair.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12828	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12829	So I really think,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12830	So I'm trying to protect you. I've intervened three times to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12831	Here's what I see you're going to discuss with your colleague Lagumdžija over me 109.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12832	So I have to warn him if he throws it at me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12833	So it's about redistributing previously agreed funds that are already being paid off, which the BiH state is paying off. So it's not the entity or the Federation or the Republika Srpska that pays off, it's the state from the state budget, or through the Treasury Ministry. However, there remains one really vague and incomprehensible that in a changed situation priorities such as no speech of 2000 and I do not know what year this agreement was signed or 1990 and some, therefore, basic agreement, such as there was no speech on the feasibility study of Banja Luka-Gradiška's path, there was no speech at that time on Corridor V-c. But in the meantime, we have something new. So as Republika Srpska has made a priority, i.e. in terms of priorities in changed priorities, it has introduced a feasibility study, indeed one comment that could have been done by the Federation government. The more the complete amendment procedure could change and insert such as C-5 Republika Srpska, the V-c Federation, without speaking to the Bosnia and Herzegovina target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12834	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. We have a replica first Mr. Jović, because he called earlier, so Mrs. Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12835	I am privileged, able to speak after respected representatives, so I would answer that last year, in May, we were right down in the hall of this same home I was one of the motions of the Law on concessions and that we were then far-reaching and adopted the amendments and additions of the Law on concessions, today would probably have been a large study of the feasibility of Corridor V-c. But then we stayed lonely in the House, but good. I also want to say, just now, to comment on my question. In the financial year 2000, since the OPEC, we have signed a $10m loan. This is in 2004, $750,000 stands in the account unrealised for schools in Croatian. It's grief. That's sad. He does the administrative will and the will of one or two officers. For the third year I've been struggling to miss those funds on the welfare of children. And these days and in this House, we have been speaking in awe, and we need funds throughout the context of the debates that have been led around the Law on Higher Education. 750 thousand OPEC funds only those intended for schools in Croatian for children's learning. And that's why I said I need that examination, because without arguments, I'm a cut-off tree. I like to have arguments and give them away and enter the polemics with every eye for eyes. Why? Because I want to and I want to be right. And I can't be right if I don't have an argument. I have to be armed with arguments for a quality, good and productive debate. 110 I never speak just to register a case. I always say that the result is that this is not how it should be done, or if something is well done to continue on that path. That's the purpose of my discussions and apparitions. That's why, even today, the distinguished minister has made one proposal that we've seen no need to influence. So, I was automatically automated to the background to vote for this proposal right away. The one who put himself in the position of duty, he did it and did it, and now we should do it here, I'm not saying we shouldn't talk, but when we don't have to decide fate, there are people who want and want to be responsible. We've been presented here, we know where the funds go, so why stop us, because no one steals them. And whether it will be properly directed, then there will be a payment to the elections, because the authority that manages the direction of that money has a responsibility to the citizens. She decided to do as we saw here. The country's debt to that amount, or entities, is certain to be in Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt. I support this amendment, and I will vote for only the reasons why I know that these funds have a name and a last name and address to which they are going, and whether they will be properly directed, properly used, so they will come to collect. I said it would be an election and I'm for this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12836	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. The word is Mrs Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12837	I want to appeal to my colleagues to adopt this amendment to the '96 Agreement. It's '97. ratified since then. For what? I am from the Council of Ministers in 2001 while I was Deputy Minister of Treasury and of the OHR appointed administrator of civil aviation. I resisted it because I had absolutely nothing to do with civil aviation, because I spent five years in banking, and then they told me just since you finished what's been frozen in finance for years, so there's nothing you can do there in the directorate. And then I accepted. When I got there, I saw that Iberde's loan was not used, so then I checked with the Central Bank, and in us at the foreign debt ministry, I saw that she had already started paying off. It was for me to discover first after 30 years in banking that a loan could be returned without being used. And then we got into the Master's plan then to see what it was, why the country was in charge then. Of course, the state, but through the entity, because their parliaments make decisions about the debt. We have seen that what the specification is written in this agreement does not meet the real needs of the entities. It doesn't matter now which entity. And that was so controversial all the time, it couldn't be used for a piece of equipment that was already finished and lying in Germany in a warehouse for over a year, and that's what the pen went to, because the specification didn't meet the real needs. I left after four months, and it couldn't be over by then. Other funds that have been in Brussels since Bosnia and Herzegovina's 3.160.000.00, Ljerka you have actually...before you have found it, we have managed to get the funds into the country $3.160,000 and that 111 since then, every month comes what belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina based on flyovers to so-called. ...that's right, Azra, you came for the minister then. So this is finally to close this agreement with this amendment and to take advantage of what they're already paying as if we've used it. And that's why I'm asking you to vote this. There. It may have been wrong not to give a full specification of the five million per sector, within us in materials and what the new ones look like, which is what the funds are going to be. There may be only Ljerka, otherwise you have explained everything well for Minister Ivanić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12838	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leho. Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12839	...one question and please answer. Iberde's funds are according to what has now been said here for the Sarajevo and Banja Luka airport navigation systems. Aviatics. Those funds weren't realised for the airports, I understand that. And nothing happened. And we're talking about 700,000 marks for the election. Well, we're rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-11-0.u12840	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. I propose we make it clear that we agree to ratify the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. Now. With 23 votes in favour of, 2 against, 5 abstentions, 15 Federations, RS 8, I conclude that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly has agreed to ratify the first amendment to the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much. We're moving to the final item of the agenda. Ad.14. The appointment of members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on identical text (a) of the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination and under (b) of the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina We have a situation that these two laws have been adopted in different texts in this and in the House of Peoples. It is therefore necessary to appoint three members per joint commission to comply with the law. 112 At the extended college, we agreed on a proposal for candidates for joint committees in front of the House for - Law on the conduct of a judicial exam The extended College proposes Mr. Novaković, Momčilo Novaković, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman and Mr. Filip Andrić and - The Law on Police Officers Mr. Vink Zorić, Mr. Hazim Felić and Mr. Petar Kunić. Can we get to the bottom of these suggestions? Anybody want some? Thank you. I ask you, in general, to make a statement on the proposal for members and the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination and the Law on Police Officers. Please vote now. Please wait until I close the session. I ask the MPs to, until I finish the agenda. With 28 votes in favour, no one against, I find that we have unanimously appointed Mr. Novaković, Ćeman and Andrić as the Law on Police Officers of Mr. Zorić, Felić and Kunić on behalf of the House of Representatives in the Joint Committee for the Consensus of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law. Thank you very much. This concludes the work of the 36th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 6 o'clock and 15 o'clock.
