ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14855	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 44th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I welcome all MPs. In addition to the representatives at this session, our regular guests, as well as representatives of international and non-governmental organisations, are invited to follow the work of the House. All together, I welcome you and open the debate, forgive me if we are working on the agenda that you received today, with an agreement with the extended session of the College, which we held just before this session to include the point of representation, since we did not have any parliamentary questions at the last session, but because of the fact that today there will be a debate on VAT, let us limit time to half an hour and that every club has the opportunity to ask one question at a time. That's the deal we made, and I think it's correct, and I think we should stick to that deal. So it's just a supplement compared to what you got. I am opening a debate on the agenda, with the conclusion that we currently have 33 MPs and that we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, so Mr. Hazim Felić. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14856	I thank Mr. Chairman, dama and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, the president of the MPs' club on behalf of the MPs' club, in preparation for the session and in this morning's College, had a proposal to supplement one item on the agenda. However, the College itself did not reach agreement on this. That's why, Mr. Chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm looking for a consensus that the House has been able to come to terms with the point we've proposed. For those of you who do not know what this is about, let me remind you, at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly, we have proposed a resolution on the ban on sending all BH military and police photos to missions abroad until an appropriate law and activity is passed in this area. It then prevailed that the resolution was sent to the commission stage and we were then expressing our suspicion that, in practice, sending it to the commission stage of this resolution, it would result in this resolution becoming meaningless, and it was an extremely important thing. We also sent a law on the engagement of members of the BiH Armed Forces of Police Officers, two members of civil protection, civil servants, the furniture of peacekeeping missions abroad and the stationing and deployment of foreign armed forces and officials in missions on BiH territory, which would regulate the area. You are yourself, Mr. Chairman, not only as chairman, but as president of a committee, who would have had and how much to say on this subject, assured me that this is a matter that requires a more serious debate, and requires an indication of the BiH presidency, the foreign minister, the defence minister. Unfortunately, since the last session of the House of Representatives, I have not received the opinion of the Council of Ministers as a legislator of the Council of Ministers on the law, no matter how, absolutely. As the motion for a resolution, I have not yet been invited to any commission to read about it, or to read it, because it is our commission, the resolution of the representatives of the SDP Club, and, for these reasons, since all of this together, I do not want to speak of what it looks like, but I am afraid that we are entering into the preparation and realization of a decision for which there is no coverage of this Parliament. That's why I suggested it last time, so they told me there's no need, because it's an integral part of the resolution, so for today's agenda, I'm asking you to make it clear that we're getting into the agenda of the point that reads. A conclusion on the ban on sending all BH military and police formations to missions abroad until a proper law is passed. In other words, Mr President, that we, as Parliament today, take note of this relevant conclusion, and I think that this conclusion will force both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and all the competent institutions to come before this Parliament as soon as possible to complete the law, as well as the full plan of activity that would set out the objective, scope, resources and cost of the mission... legal status of the members of the troops, with defined funds for the salaries and their insurance, training, command responsibility and similarity for what is now under way, the more Mr. Chairman, the more I, as an MEP, will hear from the means of information that our demining military formation will go to Iraq, which I find completely inappropriate on the basis of the Presidency's decision, which I do not need to speak of particular. For this reason, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to take note of this conclusion and thus to save, I do not know the face of Parliament but also the face of the country in front of the domestic and international public and to begin to look like the right state here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14857	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Anybody else want to do the agenda? I'm sorry, Mr. Felić, I've already announced it, so Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14858	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, guests, since the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law on Public Procurement yesterday finished its job and the report you received, I ask that today's agenda find a report of the Joint Commission, since the text of the law on public procurement has been agreed. That's why I'm asking you to put yourself in today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14859	I thank Mr. Felić. The word is Mrs. Palavrić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14860	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I join Mr. Felić's proposal, especially given the importance of this law and the passing of time, I think that every day it is important that this law be published as soon as possible in the Official Messenger, so that it can be applied. In addition, I object to the SDP Club proposal, which we discussed at the Expansive College, to include today part of the resolution on sending to peace operations, first of all for the reason that our Rules of Procedure for such matters, we accepted it at the last session. I know that the College has appointed a competent commission and we suggest that we wait for the commission and only correcting one false allegation, the Presidency when it has been made or when it makes decisions to refer to peace operations, it acts under the Defence Act, so it does not act illegally or against the constitution, and if it is not the right thing to talk about the essence, it is essentially spoken of, I believe that today we would have violated both the Constitution and the law, if we did otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14861	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Potočnik picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14862	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and at the last session where we had this point, and I'm going to do it one more time. This is neither the SDP club nor any party, but it is a matter of respect and protection for BiH. Sending people to the risk area is irresponsible, unfair to the BiH man, so I suggest we make a statement on this point of the agenda and, if Bog gives, adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14863	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14864	Mr. Chairman, it went the wrong way. I'm in an explanation, I think I've made myself clear. We don't propose a resolution on the agenda again, we don't propose a resolution, we don't propose a agenda or a law, which we have committed to having quickly ahead of ourselves. My proposal is very clear, I suggest just including the agenda item conclusion on the ban on sending all BH military and police formations to missions abroad until the relevant law is passed. It's a part of the agenda, and it's not at all what I want, it's clear to me that the U.S.A. is to send soldiers to Iraq.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14865	Okay, don't comment. You explained. Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I've experienced your proposal as you said. So, to put the draft conclusion on the agenda, and this is what the House will declare, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but don't put this through the debate. Mr. Sead Avdić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14866	... consider this situation, in which BiH is located, from the aspect of sending this demining unit to the Iraq area. Why? Because when the Presidency's decision was made, objectively, there were very different conditions of the situation in Iraq and simply peace, i.e. war in the Iraq area, which means that when the situation is settled and the situation is complicated in the extreme, when every day we have catastrovic and dramatic reports, the objective question is that this Parliament, with a sense of responsibility, simply the dignity of this country and credibility in its international relations, at least temporarily asks the Presidency to put the moratorium on its way out and, at least temporarily, given the alignment of the situation in the Iraq area, and that would be the way out of this situation. We do not need law and resolution, but simply a temporary moratorium, we ask the Presidency until, simply, conditions in Iraq are assessed whether they are safe for the stay of the units, the demining units of BiH in the area of Iraq. I think it would be the least this parliament can do, a response to the current state of public change and accountability towards the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14867	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr Gligorić, therefore, I would like to say that Mr Lagumdžija has immediately held a session in the performance of the last session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and there is nothing questionable about it, which you, Mr Lagumdžija, have held on behalf of your club, considered that such an important issue for BiH should be discussed on the joint committee of both homes, and that I have also scheduled a session of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which has also been identified and if it is not competent to discuss the issue of what is more important for the debate in this House, and that the security and the presence of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, and of the Ministry of Defence and all relevant in this debate, could be taken up by this House, respectively, in order for this House to take a relevant decision. So there would be no delusion if it hadn't gone into the realization of that conclusion. I think it is correct to say this, and we will plead here, but I remain on the stand that it is too serious for this ad-hoc to declare this home, especially that the BiH Presidency, under the BiH Constitution, has the primary responsibility for foreign policy and we do not need to escape from our own. Now we'll see which way this home will define itself. We have Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Belkić. I don't think I abused the pay phone, that it was my duty to say this. Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14868	...you helped, since you said that according to the Rules of Procedure we should make a statement and you made this comment that is correct, reduce this part of the explanation why it is necessary, but in short it means. We already had a chance last time we talked about VAT and a proposal from the Council of Ministers, where Parliament rose above the proposal and defined one, one new direction, as well as in which direction it should go. Also now when it comes to the Presidency's position, I think that Parliament is slowly growing up every day, in fact, into one body, which should take care of the most important issues in BiH since the law was passed and what my coelga Bosnian-Herzegovina would say. 5 I also insist on voting on this proposal by Professor Lagumdžija and thus Parliament slowly taking responsibility for certain issues or certain views of both the executive authorities and the Presidency. Obviously, I can say that I am very pleased that everyone, meaning that Parliament actually became the place where in some way I can correct the failures of a body that under the Constitution, means that it will have its jurisdiction but, in my view, it certainly has a crucial competence and I support this way of working within Parliament and I would pray that it is understood that Parliament is not the place where influences, any executive power, any presidency, will somehow be seen, but that Parliament will simply be the place in which it will take responsibility for the fate of many things in BiH. This is actually one of the big questions, and I'm joining those who asked us to put it on the agenda today, to lead the debate, so we're going to see what it's going to be like, maybe in the direction that you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14869	I thank Mr. Gligorić. We still have Mr. Beriz Belkić and Mr. Nikola Špirić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14870	...workmates and colleagues, I answered for two reasons. The first reason is to make an appeal and appeal to my colleagues and colleagues that, when we determine the agenda, we are truly rational. We all have opinions about all things and that before when it comes to things that are not the first time in this House. So, to refrain from setting the agenda of too much of a story, which will be repeated when it happens on the agenda. That's one thing. And, secondly, I'm going to say very briefly that the Party for BiH, will absolutely support the proposal to include the public procurement law on the agenda, which we had to say about the law, we said, the commission has reached agreement and there is no reason not to do so. I'm just sorry the Expansive College didn't have that information this morning, but we found it here on the tables. So, a small remark to us in the Expansive College that we had no information that agreement was reached on this law, but, behold, I am pleased and when it comes to the proposal for a conclusion spoken by Mr Križanović this morning at the Extended College, we will also support that kind of conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14871	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I think we've made it possible to discuss it enough and that we can move on to a statement on the proposals that were under discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14872	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I, too, want to say, in fact Martin has already said that the College has the consent to include this point regarding the harmonised text of the law on public procurement. When it comes to the conclusion of Mr Lagumdžija, I think it is a serious issue, to discuss the subject, that members of the Presidency should be present and at the very least the foreign minister. We can conduct any debate we want, 6 we make conclusions of whatever we want, but a lot of seriousness can only have that debate when we have all the arguments and when we respect all those who are competent to lead foreign policy. Otherwise, I'm afraid, it's not a rare case that we're making conclusions that aren't being respected and not being implemented, but I think this is such a serious subject, that the way we want to deal with it would do more harm than good, and that's why I won't support this conclusion. I am therefore prepared to make my contribution to the moment when the Presidency comes and when they say, when they come out with arguments, what motivated them to make a decision and when the foreign minister says what he thinks, what he is, is also part of his job, and then only the conclusion of Parliament will be valid and will everyone have to respect him. Like this, I'm afraid it's not on the trail of finding a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14873	I thank Mr. Špirić. The debate is closed. The College suggests, therefore, that we accept as an additional item of the agenda a report by the Joint Commission of the two homes on the alignment of the text of the public procurement law and that it be after previous reports, before the appointment and points in accordance with... I ask the House to declare on the inclusion of this item in the agenda. Please vote now. I find that the House unanimously with 32 votes in favour, accepted a proposal to implement the new item on the agenda, a report on the alignment of the text of the BiH public procurement law. And I am now putting on the statement of the proposal submitted by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija on behalf of the SDP Club, to include in today's session the conclusion on the ban on sending all BH military and police formations to missions abroad until a proper law is passed. I ask the House to declare this proposal to Mr Lagudmžija. Vote now. 14 votes for, 14 against, so the proposal for a conclusion doesn't have a majority. It remains, therefore, to hold this debate when the commission prepares our position and I expect it to be very soon and that we can conclude as the House that the commission does so right after the local elections. Mr. Lagumdžija, no vote here in this house has ever been consistent with the number of present. So, there's always someone who doesn't vote. You, if you want the printing list, you'll get it too. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14874	...here in the woods we have 31 votes. So I'd really like to ask you not to question electronics again, to make a fine count. Please, we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14875	Well, you're looking at the Rules of Procedure. Was it a mistake? 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14876	... 32 MPs registered, you have 31 votes and by the Rules of Procedure you know how to vote. That's why I suggest you don't raise your suspicions. You have, obviously, as much as it is, no one can change the vote, but please remain notified, you have a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14877	Mr. Lagumdžija, I will inform you and all MPs can receive written results of the vote. That we don't speculate there and don't open a debate about this unless there's a Rules of Procedure. So, a total of 31 MPs voted. 14 votes were in favour, with three abstentions against 14 out of 31 votes. The others didn't vote, it's their right and these are the results of the vote and you can all get it and don't make it out of something that's not a problem, we're making a problem here. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14878	... they voted and you're the chairman of that said still the structure of 31. But there's 34 here. Now there was one coming out, so 33. We can vote on the Rules of Procedure in one of three ways. Therefore, why doesn't some MP take responsibility to vote yes, against and be abstention, rather than ignore this parliament. Anyone who ignores Parliament should take that responsibility and see who the MP is, get up, it's not a problem. It's not a rally, it's, you're running away from this whenever something is sensitive, you're just in a hurry just to get it over with. Well, I would,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14879	Mr. Gligorić, no one escapes, here's the real requirements you've put here today on the agenda we're realising in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Why do you keep saying she wants something? It's tasteless. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14880	I, indeed, also join my colleagues who want us not to make any of this the atmosphere that creates some tensions, and if we are going to work according to the Rules of Procedure really, on the basis of what we have heard so far by the number of present and voting methods, then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are looking for an individual statement on this conclusion. We're looking for an individual statement on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14881	... individual voting, let's read how who voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14882	I suggest that in accordance with Article 69. At the request of the SDP Club, the Rules of Procedure shall be subject to an individual declaration. Is that okay? I don't know why you kept up until you got another statement from the College, so every decision is, here you want to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Democratic Decisions and plead. Here, I'll take it. If you'd asked before, you'd have had it sooner. I will ask Mrs. Todorović, Secretary of the House to do so. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14883	1. Mirsad Ćeman, v. 2. Šefik Džaferović, v. 3. Hazim Felić, v. 4. Izet Hadžić, not here 5. Fatima Leho versus 6. Nadžid Mlaćo, v. 7. Abdulah Nakaš, absent 8. Muber Ušanović, v. 9. Sead Palavrić, v. 10. Beriz Belkić, for 11. Nijaz Duraković, for 12. Azra Hadžiahmetović, 13. Adem Huskić, 14. Mehmed Suljkanović, for 15. Filip Andrić, v. 16. Ivo Miro Jović, not here 17. Martin Raguž, v. 18. Sopta Ruža, v. 19. Vinko Zorić, v. 20. Selim Bešlagić, for 21. Zlatko Lagumdžija, for 22. Jozo Križanović, for 23. Sead Avdić, for 24. Muhamed Altić, abstention 25. Ibrahim Đedović, not here 26. Ivo Lozančić, 27. Muhamed Moranjkić, 28th Mladen Potočnik, for 29. Miloš Jovanović, 30. Ljiljana Milićević, not here 31. Nenad Mišić, 32. Momčilo Novaković, against 33. Marija Perkanović, v. 34. Nikola Kragulj, abstention 35. Nikola Špirić, v. 36. Milorad Živković, abstention 37. Jelina Đurković, v. 38. Petar Kunić, he's not here 39. Mirko Blagojević, 40 away. Tihomir Gligorić, for 41. Elmir Jahić, not here 42. Munib Jusufović, for
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14884	I thank Mrs. Todorović. Please keep me informed of the results. Just a second, yeah. So, I'm reporting to the House that the results of the single vote, so 15 for, 15 9 v, 4 abstentions and I find that Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for the conclusion did not get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14885	I would ask that just for the record, the result of the first vote was 31 votes. 14 for, 14 against and 3 abstentions. Since we are here, our suspicion has been expressed, then the count found that it was not exactly an electronic vote, 14 - 14 - 3, and now it is 15 - 15 - 4. Therefore, we can only reason that a statement has been sought for a reason and this doubt that we have expressed has been justified. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14886	Okay, thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Only I said you could check the first vote. We had an individual. The Rules of Procedure are respected, why someone didn't vote in the first vote, that doesn't mean it was irregular, that's his right, just to explain it. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14887	I don't question either one or the other, but here I am now taking out this card and less one is present in this 15 plus 15 plus 4. Why do I say that and why I pulled this card, because some of my colleagues were just outside, and they didn't pull the card. So let's not manipulate here with the addition and the addition. I think the electronic vote so far has been true, that it wasn't, because none of the MPs have answered. We have a failure in the electronic vote. For example. I voted before they showed up those seconds or later. So I say, I'm sorry, my voice isn't appreciated, but we didn't hear it here before. I haven't heard from Mr. Lagumdžija or any of the other MPs, when my voice isn't respected. And everything was regular, and we just wanted to take a little bit of time, probably about this public debate about a very important law, what VAT law is, and we're going to continue in that tone, and I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, am allowing myself the right to take one minute too.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14888	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Please, Mr. Gligorić, can we move on to the realization of the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14889	Mr. Vinko Zorić. He gave one of his personal interpretations, which doesn't match the real state. Because the cards were drawn at the moment when it was registered, and in the end we have the Professional Service, which follows it all. Why do you want to make Mr Zorić's statement as if everything was okay? It wasn't right and your interpretation wasn't true, because the cards were drawn, not this manifestation of yours, in the sense that when you... took out your card, you wanted to say that everything was regular. No, everything has actually been, in fact, as it has been said on the slide and lively words have been otherwise confirmed in Parliament. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14890	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. I responsibly claim that everything has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all requirements respected, and the service is responsible for technical elements. If you have a request, you'll get a written clarification. So I think we can move on to the realization of the agenda today. Thank you very much. Now I'm going to read the adopted agenda for a stenogram. 1. Agents' questions and answers 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. 3. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, also under Article 105. 4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, as referred to in Article 105. 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts of BiH, also under Article 105. Six. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, 8 / 8 The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text: (a) Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants BiH, (b) Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents of BiH, (c) Law on the Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH, (d) Law on Missing Persons in BiH, (e) Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH 9. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Germany on financial co-operation for 2002 (b) Convention establishing the Council of Customs Cooperation, (c) Declarations on Anti-doping in Sports d) Agreement amending the Framework Agreement on the River Basin of the All and the navigation protocols under the Framework Agreement I thank all MPs once again and we move on to the first point. 11 Ad.1. Zatupnik questions First came Mr. Nikola Špirić, so Mr. Vinko Zorić, and Mr. Mladen Potočnik. That's the order. I'm sorry, Nikola, we had that deal to make these questions today at half an hour of consciousness. Mr. Ćeman also answered. I think we can do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14891	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, on behalf of the club, we will honor the extended College's agreement to ask a question on behalf of the club, so I think we should stick to the arrangements at the Extended College. What I want to put on behalf of the BiH public is to ask for a stenogram of talks between Mr. Sulejmen Tihić and Šaćirbej Muhamed in New York. Whether these talks were held in BiH's interest, which requires the extradition and order of Interpol to BiHŠaćirbej judicial authorities or by Sulejman Tihić advised him to behave in the case. Anyway, we'd better get a stenogram of those conversations. I think it's a scandalous encounter and the chairman of the presidency has sent a message to criminals that there's nothing to be afraid of while he's chairman of the presidency. So I think it would be good if we got a stenogram of them talking as a state parliament if we knew what the top representatives of the government are having talks with people outside BiH. One more thing, I ask the public to know whether Mr Tihić, accompanied by Mr Mladen Ivanić, was also present at the interview, which would further strengthen the scandal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14892	I thank Mr. Špirić. Next up is Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14893	Will the Council of Ministers be able to participate in the cost of preparing the BiH team's participation in the European Bosing Championship in Kivas Italy from 5 October to 10 October 2004? This is what I ask the Council of Ministers and especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the BiH team is one of the better BiH representatives in the world, in Europe and the world. I note that, on several occasions, on several occasions, BiH's representatives sought assistance both for representative actions and for the organisation of the 2002 European Championship in Gruda, and for those who do not know about the 2007 World Cup in BiH, but we did not get an answer from the Council of Ministers. 12 It should also be noted that the BiH team, at the 2003 Nice World Cup, won the third championship, the bronze medal, and I also have knowledge that the Council of Ministers assisted the teams in other sports.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14894	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. The word has Mr. Mladen Potočnik, let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14895	Chairman, I have the next question. To what period, that is, for what length of the term of office has the BiH Presidency appointed Mr. Milenko Šega's new state auditor, Šego? Explanation. In the BiH chairman's decision, Mr Tihić writes the mandate of the chief auditor will be determined in accordance with the law. We have defined it differently in Parliament and, if we accept, I apologize for the expression, the game of the main auditor being five years old, and the assistant auditors being seven years old, then with this schedule of things, a constituent people, in a concrete example, Croatia could audit the Presidency for the next twenty years, it is all one thing whether it is Croatian, Bosniak or Serbian, which is contrary to the interest of the BiH state, and one who has a revision of itself has the possibility, or who has the audit under it, has the possibility of doing what it wants. To prevent such events, I ask this question in the hope and belief that there will be no such machination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14896	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word has Mr. Ćeman, let Mr. Moranjkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14897	I have two short questions. First, recently in the media are the publication of statements by top Catholic church officials in BiH, that in Sarajevo they are reportedly not allowed to build a Catholic church and, if it is sought by the believers for years. Question. Does anyone also prevent the issue of a permit to build a Catholic church in Sarajevo? I'm asking for a written reply from the Ministry of Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum. I'm setting this up because human rights need to be protected and controversy if there are already to be removed. Secondly, how does the BiH Presidency plan to propose in the 2005 budget, and, of course, this parliamentary assembly, I hope to adopt, to stimulate innovation in BiH and can the media, above all, do more electronically to popularise these people innovators, to stimulate others, especially young people, to be innovative? I'm also looking for a written answer. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14898	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Moranjkić. Let Mr. Suljkanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14899	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll try very briefly and, if I have a broader explanation. At the beginning of this year in this building of Parliament, the event was held as a seminar on the topic "Air Traffic Problems in the World and the creation of a European air traffic site, the integration of Europeans into the world and the special place of the BiH traffic". It was then pointed out and said that two horizons of air space over BiH use and control, better said control and charge Belgrade and Zagreb. And the explanation was that we bought the equipment $3.5 million, that it was currently not mounted, that it could be dressed and that it would be done any minute. It came out very quickly in the paper that the radar was mounted, so that two or three days ago the breaking news on the diary would be completely different and completely reversed. I'm asking. Is the equipment bought? How much was paid and where is it? When will BiH take control of its sky and how much money is lost annually because of this, or what is the control of Zagreb, and what does Belgrade and how much, on this basis, take money from our sky? I ask the Council of Ministers to examine all this both SIP and financial inspection and inform me and this parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14900	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Suljkanović. Let Mr. Novaković prepare, then Mr. Lagumdžija.ð
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14901	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question concerns reciprocity in recognising and nosing a certificate of treatment of construction materials. In fact, we currently have a situation where there is a smooth import of construction materials from neighbouring countries with certificates from their authorised institutions. On the contrary, if a BiH company wants to carry out construction material in one of the neighbouring countries, then it is not enough to verify an authorised institution from our country, but is required to take samples of materials at the border to examine the institutions of the importing country, which puts our exporting producers and certification institutes in an unequal position and leads to a significant drain of material resources from our country. Who is responsible for providing reciprocity in recognising or nostifying a certificate of treatment of construction materials, when importing and exporting construction materials? I'm referring the question to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14902	I thank Mr. Suljkanović. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Lagumdžija prepare himself. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14903	Dear Chairman, I will refrain from explaining the question and read only the question. How many in the last four years have been imported into hunting weapons, through which companies and what kind of permits? What's the license schedule for entities and cantons? How many hunting associations have members? That is, how much the weapons were missing for the members of the association before 2000. The Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14904	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14905	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I have no intention of breaking the law like those who have asked two questions. Nor do I intend to be surprised again with one of my colleagues, such as Mr Špirić, who today led me to reason for surprise by the fact that he was just looking for a stenogram, and he didn't even ask himself why such a conversation. But my question has nothing to do with it. No wonder of fellow Špirić, who is constantly in continuity all day long. In fact, we were able to see from the information funds a few days ago that the BiH presidency was discussing the draft budget for next year. According to what we could hear from the information funds, the presidency has shown a need for a budget space that is higher by different means of information 32-35% higher than this year. This is contrary to all the decisions made by this Parliament and it is contrary to all the demands of the public, which we are well aware of. And, therefore, Mr. Chairman, in order to prevent the new one in time, I ask the question. For what and why did the BiH Presidency, conceive the draft budget, with more than 30% increase next year, when otherwise, the first recommendations made by this Parliament and the competent institutions and the opposite of the country's overall economic and social situation, and does the Presidency intend to recognise its needs in the appropriate frameworks? And I'll give you a written question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14906	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija, and we have fulfilled the possibility of all clubs asking questions. I thank all the MPs and conclude the first item of the agenda, they were parliamentary issues. We're moving on to point two. Ad.2. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, in accordance with procedure 105. The Commission of the College has not reached agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this draft law in accordance with procedure 105. You got the report. 15 Pursuant to Article 65(4), we are now pleading in this house in a way that two thirds of the home should be opposed to not accepting this request from the Council of Ministers. So, we move to a statement under the procedure of Article 65(4) on the request of the Council of Ministers and the report of the College. I'm asking the feds, as a matter of fact, who's against the Council of Ministers' request? Vote now. Just against it. Mrs. Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14908	... or on the request of the Council of Ministers, to go to law pursuant to Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14909	This is the second round, as requested by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14910	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14911	There's not enough number against it, so the procedure has been accepted. Only if someone is expressing suspicion and demands a re-election as the first time, but the procedure is over, we pleaded. It was not enough according to the Rules of Procedure, votes against and a request from the Council of Ministers to pass. Anybody want to vote again? Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, since the procedure has been accepted, we're now moving on to a debate about the law itself. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14912	Dear colleagues, I've been checking in, actually trying to get back to you when the report was being discussed, since there's a dilemma I want to explain to me here. Namely, according to the information I have, the House of Peoples has not accepted the procedure under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, that means that the House of Peoples has sent this law to the regular procedure. I ask how it's possible that we are now discussing the emergency procedure and is it possible that two homes are discussing in different procedures on the same law? So that's the first question, because then we come into a completely different position one home can act in amendment and we'll have a different position than the law itself. Since I expect this answer to come first, if it's positive that we can discuss it, then. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14913	Mr. Novaković, before we can, we stick to the procedure and our Rules of Procedure. And in every phase of this process, we respected her. And now we're in a phase so we can discuss this. So, we're discussing the law. You can discuss the law. Because we didn't get a request to change the procedure, we pleaded to the procedure, which was ongoing. And now we're having a debate about the law. I as chairman here to help, that's what binds us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14914	Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14915	I just wanted to cut the debate short.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14916	I thank the chairman, I must say that I would probably have pulled the law from the Council of Ministers, after the conclusion and attitude of the House of Peoples, because, indeed, we are entering into something that, in practice, we are not, at least not for the five years that I haven't had. But, okay. As far as the BiH Court of Justice law itself is concerned, I must say that it is clear to me that there is no amendment action. It is not disputed, but it is not clear to me that the BiH Court, which I have here, has, therefore, adopted the Memorandum of General Sessions of the Court of BiH, with so many objections to this law. And, in addition, the Council of Ministers, or those who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, propose laws, remain in this procedure. I can't believe that we're going to do something that those who need to do it and who don't think they're against the process are against the way to do it, so before I find out here somewhere in the text that this law is from July, or that the BiH Court had that law in July. So what were we waiting for from July to September? So, I'm only now fully convinced that the objective of procedure 105 is not urgency, but to disable the amendment's action. I'm convinced the promoter wanted to avoid the amendment, not to rush the law. Therefore, I am not and will not be able to support this one for these reasons and the following laws, because I believe that, indeed, in an extremely incorrect way, the press is being held to this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14917	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14918	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say my position, and that is that we are all here and I have personally determined to go on our way to the European Union and Euro-Atlantic integration and to go as soon as possible. It seems to me that we've stopped on that road, reforming late, and in this way we're not going to let everything we've plotted get here. On the other hand, a very company in this house is interfering with jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the House of People, the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly. It is not the first time and it will not be the first time that the laws have not been adopted in the same form, then it is known what is done, a commission is being made from both homes and the law is being passed. We have a right here to go by procedure 105. We have the right to adopt law on the House of Peoples in which you positioning parties have your own people, is to say what is wrong with that law, where vital national interests are threatened and how this law can be corrected. I think that's enough of the story itself. We need to do it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14919	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to go on about this? He doesn't want to. Please, Mr. Gligorić, you too follow the dynamics and order of reporting so that we can hold a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14920	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, when you'll conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14921	Well, when there's no sign-up. There were no more reports, and that's when I concluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14922	The technique failed again. He always schedules a technique with the opposition. Given that we have a set of these laws, I'm going to say something now and I don't mean to report by this second one at all, but basically, I want to say that the House of Representatives should think carefully when voting on these laws, how not to bring down their dignity, and what Mr. Novaković and Mr. Živković were talking about. The Council of Ministers, apparently, is constantly out of that factory making bad or other bad laws, and we are coming to Parliament, where we are not able to make good quality repairs. It is a shame, Mr. Chairman, that the BiH Federation bar organises a round table on the subject of precisely the one we now want to change and supplement again, as if to improve something, and in fact we are going back three steps, relative to the basic laws we have, where they have given their court very negatively. Who did they give that negative grade to? They gave it to the BiH Parliament. We finally passed that kind of law. These laws, if they are not good, no Council of Ministers, no OHR, there is only the BiH Parliament, which is incompetent or capable of passing quality laws. Such a plague of brains, who know what is legitimate, gave a slap to this House. Therefore, I also ask you in this case, we do not listen to the appeals of professional people in BiH, we do not listen to ordinary people, citizens to pass quality laws. We're making the same mistake again. I think that the most serious consideration should be given to the work of the Council of Ministers in terms of what they are proposing, to review the work of our committees as they do and ultimately as we adopt the laws, which the expert public, which is understood to reject. Well, it can't be said in this country that we have legal schools in Angosaxon, that we have continental schools, that we don't know what we chose and that we bring legal monsters in this country, because that's what people tell us, who know what the judicial authorities are. And I'd like to ask you to consider all this. This isn't serious. I don't think you guys would have called today if someone hadn't made you go to college to call it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14923	It's not really true, and it's not true at all, but there it is. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14924	And, let's remember what we decided about this last time, whether someone said it at all or whether they were interested. I'm not talking about the House of Peoples. Why isn't someone in that procedure, and we've had enough time. I won't mention what Novaković said in July, why was that standing somewhere? I'm talking about that log we talked about here. Why didn't someone use that time? He let go of the shortened procedure, the amendment phase, and to come today and again, so at the end of September of the month to pass the laws that are necessary. I support that we pass the law in the given time, but that someone is forcing you to bring something by article 105, where the BiH Court has put so much amendment and that we people who know something in that court are ignoring it. We have no right to do so in Parliament. We are obliged by our own rules of procedure, to use legal, professional experts from various areas of social life, to help us and someone officially directs you to Parliament and you throw it away and suck your brains out of your fingers and decide in BiH. It's not a good way to work, and that's why I find you in the College to be a part of the responsibility. Why time, if we should have done it by the end of September, because the OHR says adopt it. Why didn't you, and you knew it was important? It's not some insignificant or set of important changes and additions to these laws. Why didn't we get organized? Why didn't we put our machine in the parliamentary position, but the easiest thing to do is to accept a certain ultimatum, dictatorship, secret, public and simply get into a situation where we just raise our hand and say, let's let this law pass, so this and then you just have laws that the public condemns and professional public in particular. So I'm asking you to think about it. It's not good this way of working, no matter if anyone's afraid for their positions inside some secret ones they're recording, they're recording. We have to say once in BiH and we and domestic politicians, this is our country, these are our laws. We want to make them quality. We want to make them quick. We want to run rather than go slowly, but someone can't love this country anymore from OHR, who came here and works for 40,000 marks and who knows maybe the euro. She can't love her. Let's take people's responsibility. So many BiH people have smart people. He's got experts. Let them work. They'll do nothing for us. Let's try to solve this, so I'm saying that this way I can't support this procedure either, because it's been extorted and this kind of solution, where people in the judiciary say it's not a good solution. And as an MP, I've been denied the same thing either copying from them or qualitying the law, and that's why I'm against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14925	Thank you very much. Have you heard from Mrs. Palavrić? I don't have any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14926	I thank you, I just want to remind us that we received this law in the Parliamentary Assembly on 6 August and was delivered to us right away at our addresses. The fact is that the laws are from July, but my opinion is that for this set of laws people in the BiH Court certainly knew at a stage where the Council of Ministers made drafts of the law. So I would be happier if they had responded before the laws were passed to us, than they had reacted a month after this set of laws was delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly. Also, from remarks to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, which the Court of BiH puts forward, I do not see that these are key remarks that would prevent us from adopting this law under Article 105. I think some can be removed in walking, the responsibility of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council by that law, etc. but what is necessary is that we adopt this set of laws and these amendments allow the processing of those crimes that are committed to the Court of Justice of BiH to begin from 1 January of next year. I think that this responsibility lies with us, and when we talk about the Federation of BiH's Bar Association, she reacted to 19 entire BiH Criminal Law and Criminal Laws in BiH that are really quite difficult to digest, and that we have a mixture of continental, Anglo-Saxon law, so it's out of the minds to say. We are aware of these facts and so it will be, because it is obviously very similar in EU countries. So, it's not the biggest disaster that this is a mixture, we're going to find out, our students are going to learn differently, our judges are going to accept what needs to be accepted, if we want to join the EU, and I suggest on behalf of the SDA Club that we accept these laws now, at today's session, and if they are possibly in a different text voted in the House of Peoples, we know the business procedure, we're going to bring the text into line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14927	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Replica Mr. Novaković, then the word will be Mr. Šefik Džaferović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14928	I want to replicate just using here the idea that we need laws. I do not dispute, at least I do not dispute the need for these laws, but please Article 17, paragraph 8, says that international judges will not be held accountable in criminal or litigation proceedings for any action committed in the performance of their duties under this law. So, international judges are not responsible, domestic judges are responsible. Are they or aren't they domestically responsible? What difference does it make with judges between domestic and international? I can't believe we're talking in the context of a need with such members of the law. We do not dispute the need to pass laws, to dispute the quality of the law, I say and repeat, we thought that we could contribute in some procedure to go into quality law. I can't vote for a member of the law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14929	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Džaferović. No more reports, please. I'm closing the reports. Here's Beriz Belkić, always correct, so he'll,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14930	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have always appeared when it comes to law in the field of justice, let's state that either in the area of the judiciary, the laws concerning the organisation and functioning of the judiciary system and I have expressed my views, I have had certain objections to the Law on Criminal Procedure and to the Criminal Law of BiH, as well as those discussions are well known but Parliament has adopted and I have voted for these laws and as far as I know in the Council of Ministers there is one working body that should follow the practice of implementing these laws, if necessary, if there is a more serious matter here in Parliament with the proper amendment of those laws that we have adopted, because we have indeed moved from one system to another system, which again represents a mixture of some systems when it comes to criminal legal proceedings. As far as these laws are concerned, their goal is for BiH to be able to prosecute war crimes indictees as soon as possible. And I also read a letter from the general session of the BiH Court and listened to a reasoned and read the arguments of this law. The department formed by the BiH Court of Justice, which I believe must have certain specificities in relation to the other departments in the BiH Court, for the sake of efficiency and functionality in the processing of war crimes indictees. It needs to be as much like The Hagu as possible. For the sake of procedures and for the job of processing 20 athentic crimes to be effective and functional. And for that reason, because of the need to finally establish such a department in BiH, I support this specificity and I will vote for a full set of laws. I would say misunderstandings, e.g. There was a voice that the detention carried out in The Hague tribunal would not be included, so someone said an apparition that was given here and that it was written in the law. When the Transfer Act is read and the case enters, then it is seen that it is not included, it is clearly written, it is not included in The Hague detention in BiH, because detention in the BiH investigation is limited, it is not worse. And it's perfectly normal that it can't be included, but detention in The Hague and detention here designated by the BiH Court will be included in the fine, the sentence imposed, and it's perfectly normal. I am just an example of this, to say that there has been a lot of misunderstanding of the text of the law itself, and to repeat it once again, I respect the need to go this way, so we will follow, of course, we are Parliament, this is living matter, and if there is a need, we can react. Therefore, I give my vote for a complete set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14931	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14932	I felt there was no need to speak, and we, our position very clearly showed by supporting procedure 105 and of course we will plead for the adoption of all these laws in this area. But the debate asked me to simply point to the other side, or another dimension related to this and similar situation. I stress that this is about, that this is not about our initiative and our full political concentration and willingness to enter and implement a particular project in a particular area. I'll remind you that we have a situation with the current cancer that's changing, that we have a situation with the Indirect Taxation Administration, so here's the War Crimes Department, etc. for the simple reason that BiH authorities, at least part of the BiH government, were not ready to support these solutions and introduce such structures in BiH. And of course we had a situation then that the International Community played a leading role in these situations and that it created certain solutions that I agree that are sometimes specific, as Mr Džaferović said. So we have to be conscious and face the fact that there are things where we have, where our burning is late. Lately, we began to say that we support the introduction of the Court, i.e. the War Crimes Department, etc., because for 3-4 years, at least part of the political structures in BiH strongly resisted and then the solutions are as they are. It's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14933	Thank you very much. Since there have been some comments on the role of Parliament and how to lead the College on this matter, let me say the following. So, the College is obliged to follow the procedure first, and the procedure was a request for 105, and we had no other requests from the Council of Ministers to change the procedure. At the interval since we had the last session to date, I must say that I personally as chairman, have left room for everyone and the Council of Ministers and other institutions to ask for a change of procedure, Mr. Gligorić, for the correctness of you to know. Because I believe that this parliament had to say its word on the General Court of BiH's Memorandum of Understanding and on the BiH Presidency's positions. It's a minimum. This does not mean obstructing the law, but probably improving it. But you've seen the result of the college and the result of today's vote. 21 Therefore, if there are sufficient arguments, let us respect the procedure and respect the deadlines. If there are enough arguments that we will get from the House of Nations, let this House accept these arguments and agree and improve this law through compliance. If not, we have an opportunity to initiate a change, uh, a legitimate change like the Home and open a debate. I'm believing, for that debate that we were even principled. If we've said last time around the VAT we've had enough colonial status in BiH, I want it to be enough in other areas and not just in one. And to define the precise role of international judges within the framework of an institution and by undermining BiH institutions, no one should be able to stay out of them. But here, let's judge what's the top priority. I don't think BiH can take any further discussion of these laws for three months now, given the feasibility study and some other elements, and let us jointly judge what is greater interest and move in that direction. I mean, if we don't give the grade lightly, someone doesn't want to, I mean, if there's legitimate initiatives, the arguments let's just fix it, change it if we're ready. But now we're in the process, on me personally, no one can pressure unless there's any arguments. Maybe I'm wrong a lot, but it's some position I'm trying to advocate, and there's no pressure either because of the correctness of the international community I have to say in this period that we're doing something but we see that the views are slightly different. The Council of Ministers has remained in the positions in which it is and it would be too much of a risk if we had extended the debate on these issues, given the deadlines that bind us. Here, I think it's a correct one of the reasons and that we can now approach the decision on this law. Thank you very much. I am asking the MPs to now declare on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Vote now. I agree that with 23 votes in favour, and a sufficient entity majority, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH has been adopted. We're going to the third point, that's Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prosecutor's Law We adopted the procedure. I'm opening the argument. I think the debate is if I can suggest a complete, exhausted content through the first but if there's someone here? I have the right to be warned from the College and the Service that we must conduct each of these points in the same procedure. So, you've reached the College Report. Since the College has not reached agreement, we are moving to the second round of pleas and are now pleading who is against the Council of Ministers' request to adopt this Amendments and Supplements Act under the procedure of Article 105. Vote now. Only those who are against it. 22 So he doesn't have the necessary majority. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives has accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH under procedure 105. Now I'm opening a debate on this law. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare its proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Vote now. With 22 votes in favour, 17 from the Federation, 5 from the RS, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH was adopted. Moving to point 4. That's it, Add.4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, under the 105th procedure So you also received a Report from the Commission from the College. And we move on that no consent has been reached, we are going through Article 65(4) in the second round of pleas. All I ask is that votes be voiced against. Vote now. So he doesn't have the necessary majority. The Council of Ministers' request was accepted to consider the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. We're moving on to a debate, a statement about the law. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare its proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code of BiH. Vote now. I find that with 23 votes for and enough entity majority, the House of Representatives has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH. Thank you very much. Moving to the fifth point, that's Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the application of the case by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Court in proceedings before the courts in BiH under Article 105. Rules of Procedure report you've received. The result is the same as in previous votes. We move to a statement in the second round according to Article 65(4) of the Rules of Procedure, please only those who are against it vote. 23 Vote now. He doesn't have the necessary majority. The Council of Ministers has been accepted to consider this proposal for a law under Article 105. I'm opening a debate about the law. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement from the House of Representatives on the proposal for this law. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 23 votes in favour of, 18 from the Federation, 5 from the RS adopted the proposal for a law on the entry of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH. I thank the MPs. We're going to the sixth point, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, also under procedure 105. It's the same situation as the previous laws. Since no agreement has been reached in the College, we move to the second round of voting. I ask that only those against the Council of Ministers' request for procedure 105 be made known. Vote now. We need a majority. A request from the Council of Ministers was accepted to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Verses under threat and threatened witnesses under procedure 105. I'm opening a debate about the law. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. Vote now. I find that with 23 votes for, 18 from the Federation, 5 from the RS has therefore been accepted, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses. This concludes this package of laws regarding the House of Representatives and we move on to the 7th point of the agenda. I would ask the MPs to respect that today's debate on VAT will take place and we will speed up this work and allow everyone to participate in this debate. Thank you very much. That's, that's Ad.7. The appointment of three members in the joint committees of both homes, in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the laws set out in the agenda, I have this newly included that is, as a 7th point, that is 24 Ad.7. The Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the BiH Public Procurement Act That's what you got. It was signed by the chairman of the Joint Commission, Mr Velimir Jukić. I suggest that this report be accepted by the House of Representatives. Please be clear about this report. Vote now. So, I agree that the House of Representatives unanimously accepted the Committee's edition of the Joint Commission of both homes on the text of the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. Moving to the 8th point, that's Ad.8. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the laws listed in the agenda, which is: (a) the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants, (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH, (c) the Law on the Red Cross-Cross Society of BiH, (d) the Law on Missing Persons in BiH and (e) the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH would therefore be one commission of three members for each, so we should now propose three members for each of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14934	For the first law, Mlaćo Nadžid
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14935	Here I am now going to ask Mr. Šefik to turn himself in a little bit and help me with this point. You have a proposal initiative. First law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14936	Mlaćo Nadžida _______: Jelina Đurković
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14937	Then we'll stay with the ladies, and I suggest Mrs. Sopta. Are we going to plead as a whole or are we going to talk about each other individually? Thank you. Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14938	Felić Hazim ______: Momčilo Novaković 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14939	I suggest Mr Zorić since he often discusses these border crossings. Under c) Law on the BiH Red Cross Society
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14940	Mirsad Ćeman _______: Ljilja Milićević
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14941	Please, will you consult? I repeat everything when it's all right to come to an end, and we'll come forward as a whole. Excuse me, ćeman, shall we suggest someone from the opposition, sir. I'm proposing to Ivo Lozančić, here's a bit of a load. Okay, Mr. Lozančić. Under d) The Missing Persons Act in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14942	Huskić Adem ______: Tomislav Gligorić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14943	Ivo Miro Jović here I suggest. (e) Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14944	Avdić Sead ________: Nikola Kragulj
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-23-0.u14945	And Filip Andrić. Okay, I'll read it now before we get to the alignment. So, to comply with the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of BiH on behalf of the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes, Mrs Nadžida Mlaćo, Mrs Jelina Đurković and Mrs Ruža Sopta. 26 To comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH in the Joint Commission of both homes on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr Hazim Felić, Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Vinko Zorić. To comply with the Law on the BiH Red Cross Society on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr Mirsad Ćeman, Ms Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Ivo Lozančić. Under d) to the Joint Commission of the two homes for the consent of the text of Zaona on missing persons in BiH on behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr Adem Huskić, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Nikola Kragulj. I pode) to the Joint Commission of both homes for the text of the Law on the Foreign Investments Agency in BiH, on behalf of the House of Representatives Mr Filip Andrić, Mr Sead Avdić and Mr Tihomir Gligorić. Please, can we move on to a plea? Thank you very much. I ask the House to make a statement on this proposal as a whole. Vote now. I find that with 33 votes for, without votes against, three abstentions, we have accepted the proposal that the proposed members of this House be named as I read, according to the stenogram. Thank you very much. We move to the last item of the agenda, that's the 9th point, Add.9. Giving consent to ratification and under (a) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation for 2002 (b) the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, (c) the Declaration on Anti-Doping in Sports and (d) the Agreement amending the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime under the Framework Agreement You have received the opinion of the committee responsible for this House, that is, the Foreign Affairs Commission, which gave a positive opinion in the sense that the conditions for this House to agree at this session to ratify these agreements. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I would like to conclude the debate, moliti, of the dom, to declare its consent to the ratification of those agreements. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 31 votes to, without votes against, 2 abstentions, agreed to ratify the following agreements under a) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation for 2002 b) the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, c) the Declaration on Anti-doping in Sports and e) the Agreement amending the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime under the Framework Agreement We have exhausted the agenda. At 11:10, I close the 44th session of the House of Representatives, and I thank the representatives.
