ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11745	... MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 33rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. For today's session, our regular guests and representatives of international and non-governmental organisations, who, by the way, follow the work of the House, have been invited. As you know, the session is regularly called: the president and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the representative of the Office of the High Representative, the OSCE representative, the representative of the European Union, the representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, the representative of the BiH Monitoring Mission, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the House, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. The session also invited representatives of the Central Bank and the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office to discuss their 2004 apparitions. Once again, I warmly welcome you both MPs and all guests of our session. I konstatirati that the session is attended by 37 MPs, that we have a quorum and that we can make an important decision. The absence for the official trip was justified by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Mirsad Ćeman, Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija and Mr Jozo Križanović. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda for the 33rd session. This morning, inward of the House session, we had a session of the Colleges in an extended assembly to prepare this session. I, as president of the House, asked representatives of clubs, club presidents and they accepted that suggestion, that in principle we always try to go towards the proposed agenda, which you received in time in writing, except for exceptional and justified circumstances, so that we catch one rhythm that can follow the services and which can follow the representatives. All that came today or yesterday, and what were the clubs' initiatives for a possible change in the agenda with club leaders, was agreed to go to the first emergency session to be held in the next 7-8 days, related to the appointment of the concession and conclusion committee, related to the restitution and to the changes in the composition of the committee members and other initiatives, which were also to form certain committees, and I think you will respect these reasons and will support the proposed agenda. These were notes regarding the agenda. But I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Potočnik. 2 Can you suggest Mr. Potočnik in writing? Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Živković answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11747	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am not asking within the agenda to be a part of the agenda, but I would like the Parliamentary Assembly to declare this as a working conclusion. The cause is unfavorable events, which have occurred at the Palaces in recent times, and I believe that this high house should take a stand on it, regardless of whether or not we will then make any other actions and others have suggestions in this home. I'll read to you briefly, so the proposal for that conclusion, I also have it in writing, if it should be shared with the MPs. In fact, MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously condemned the act of violence against the prodigal Starovllah, in which serious physical injuries were inflicted on the priest and his son, of which they are still life-threatening. MPs are asking the competent state and entity institutions to examine the case and inform the BiH parliament and the public. This is the SNSD's proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11748	I thank Mr. Živković. Anybody else want to do the agenda? Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11749	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I want the public to work, and I must say that I am forced to say what I am about to say, to inform this home and the public that I am at the enlarged College, before the start of this session, I have proposed that a special commission be formed to determine the truth regarding SFOR's action at the Palace on 1.4. o.g. At that time, we agreed that, in view of and earlier practice of this initiative, this proposal would be delivered to this house, so that the next session would be on the agenda. I must say, unfortunately, that event, or this initiative, was welcomed as a political initiative, not as an initiative to determine the truth, as shown by the SNSD Club proposal, which was formed and formulated right before the session, following the session of the Colleges. So, when the president of the SNSD Club accepted that we were going not to supplement the agenda and when we agreed, there was an initiative to politicise this problem, not what I asked for to determine the truth. It is not disputed that we will eat the conclusion, because it is on the trail of what we are thinking, but it is a sad truth that we are racing here in political grades, not in the truth. 3 I would indeed be happy if I didn’t have to talk about it this way, and I asked before the start of the SNSD Club president, not to go out with this proposal of conclusions, precisely for these reasons, and now I am ready and offered to all club presidents, who want to join the initiative to sign this initiative together on the establishment of a commission and not to be an initiative of neither the SDS nor the Momčilo Novaković, but all the clubs that will support it. And here I am now publicly offering this initiative and the gentlemen of the SNSD, I really don't like to mention parties here. You know I do it very rarely, but this time, I just can't help but tell the public the truth about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11750	I thank Mr. Novaković. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11751	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, after these words, I have to say a few things, which is that our proposal for a conclusion is not contrary to the SDS initiative. The SDS initiative when it comes to MPs, we will surely sign it, but this has only strengthened the initiative and we believe that in BiH it is often true or late or not discovered. With this initiative, that is, I think the Parliamentary Assembly has given one, to say the introduction to this initiative, and I do not see that it is incompatible, nor was it in the mind of the SNSD Club to buy political points over the accident of three people at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11752	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11753	Dear President, first of all, I congratulate the Presidency, and on the agenda, I would like to confirm what Mr. Novaković said when we had a session of the Expansive College and when we all had proposals to supplement the agenda, but we all accepted by consensus that the agenda was not being extended, and that the session in continuity, preferably every seven days. However, even so, that there was no such conclusion on the enlarged College, it is impossible for me, as a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to condemn something first, and then to form a commission that will establish the truth and determine whether there is a need to condemn the act or not, because I do not know the truth. Therefore, the SDA Club cannot accept at all the initiative proposed by the SNSD Club. Also, the SDA Club cannot accept Mr Potočnik's initiative to unilaterally terminate the agreement with the Republic of Croatia on free trade and on behalf of the Club, I suggest we stick to the agenda as it came from the chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11754	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11755	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, distinguished representatives of information funds, of course, after this debate, I find myself in a dilemma whether to suggest what I was thinking, and I think it is very important, but I have decided to propose it at today's session. But I can't understand, I really can't understand, I'm not in a situation, maybe I'm not thinking as far-reaching and deep as my colleagues, if there's anyone normal in this country who won't condemn an act of violence in which two lives are at stake. It's not that, I'm sorry, colleague Novaković. He's not in college with what you want. So, to form a parliamentary commission, but Parliament must condemn violence wherever it is and invite the institutions of the authorities we are fighting for to function. Is it normal for the Ministry of Security to have no information in this country? Is it normal that the entity ministries have no information that parliamentarians have to pull them out of their ears and say what happened? Is it normal for someone to get a chill over the scenes they're looking at? Really, after eight years of tragedy and suffering, we look into each other's eyes and lie facelessly, and that's not good for the future. So don't get too upset. The proposal is legal and legitimate, free to vote against or vote for, but it is a message to the public and therefore I think that the unnecessary replica was, colleague, it is not in collegiate and I think it is a legal initiative to form a parliamentary commission that will come up with some other information, but what it is is is a political will for us fellow parlamentarac to condemn the scenes we have seen. What's going to happen, who's to blame, so it's, I guess the organs of this country say if there's any guilty, who's to blame, had any faults at all? But it's two lives. So, so much for that, here's how I'm going to define myself according to that club request, but what I wanted, too, which is about this to suggest. In fact, you have received information that the SIP leadership has asked Parliament to take action out of its jurisdiction so that the SIP is functionally trained, so that there is no crime, so that there is no corruption, so there is no terrorism, there is no new Sikirica and what we are doing, and here, I will read it to you, you have it, and then I will make a proposal afterwards, where it is said. So, the management of the SIP, Mr. Nović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11756	... topropos an amendment to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11757	So to suggest, I have to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11758	So let us respect each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11759	I can't understand how I don't respect you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11760	Because it's a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11761	Well, we're just discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11762	Well, then explain if you want to do a part of the agenda and explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11763	Well, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11764	You've never said that before, so I have to warn you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11765	The current SIP and SIP set of laws cannot be considered sufficient to meet one of the 16 conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. In fact, the Council of Europe will appreciate whether the SIP is established as an operational function, not whether laws have been passed and without conditions from the European Union BiH urgently needs such an institution, which will be able to respond to all the challenges, the growing and growing serious crime in BiH, the citizens of BiH, expect, above all, from the BiH authorities. I ask, therefore, or that as a working conclusion, that I am not going to stick to what we did at the College, to oblige the Council of Ministers, the Presidency to give the necessary authority what the SIP has provided the conditions that we have to the SIP once. Who doesn't answer to the SIP in this country? Does it suit Parliament? It suits me. I am so that today, with one working conclusion, we must oblige the Council of Ministers to create conditions for the SIP's operational work. Why, I'm asking the question, why don't people want the SIP? Well, I guess they're on the SIP's agenda, so I have no other answer. Why isn't the Personal Protection Department working? Why isn't the crime department working, anti-terrorism, anti-corruption, anti-drug, anti-prostitution department, and we all said we needed it. Here, I'm looking for a working conclusion in which we oblige the Council of Ministers to inform us how it has created conditions for the unhappiness or inability of the work of the SIP. So, in conclusion, I'm not looking for a agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11766	I thank Mr. Špirić. I won't intervene, but I think we had a quality conversation this morning and I don't need this pay phone and a request to change the agenda to use it to send messages, that someone doesn't want to discuss here about SIP Mr Špirić, and I also want to discuss both creation and all clubs and representatives, I firmly believe that they do. Just to agree on what form it will be, if you have the support to discuss today, discuss, and if we're going to assign the Council of Ministers, we'll be in charge, but our goal is to work together and determine the agenda. I begged for understanding and help. I have patience. No problem, but I think it should be in that sense correct. If you're looking for a conclusion today, I'm only asking you in writing and we'll get to the bottom of it. Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. I apologize to Mr. Gligorić before Mr. Živković. The word is Mr. Živković, so Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Živković, this is the third time, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11767	Dear Chairman, I don't know how many times you've spoken in this house, but if anyone mentions you in a speech or a party or what you suggested, it's time to explain it. I believe I haven't done it in a long time and to be specific, here's specifically Mrs. Palavrić to say that our request is entirely with the Rules of Procedure. So he's not past the Rules of Procedure. If he's past the Rules of Procedure, we'll pull him out immediately. You always want to hold the opposition under control, let there be some other ideas in this House, if we have to get out of the monotony a little bit, on the other hand, I ask that in these two sentences, which we wrote on purpose only two sentences, which is a word that bothers you. Wasn't it an act of violence? Whether it's justified or not, let the investigative authorities do so to the charming, entity and commission, if we make that commission. We've cut it down to maximum, maxed out on any political statements here. Tomorrow, some other people may be affected by it or by another BiH citizen, believe the SNSD will stand behind it. Don't let us share in this. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11768	I thank Mr. Živković. The river has Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11769	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Mixed Club SP and the Independent MP Professor Kunić and Mr. Blagojević, and on behalf of them, I would like to suggest that, and I have also represented such an opinion on an extended college that we should remain at the proposed agenda, for rationality and efficiency. Of course, this does not diminish anything in the sense that the MP has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to propose the agenda point individually, as Dr Živković did. At the same time, it is true that Mr Novaković, on behalf of the SDS Club, asked that this issue be resolved and that we found a compromise solution, in the sense that it should be seen through the investigation committee and settled at the next session, which will be the longest within ten days. At the same time, he would now propose how we should get out of this situation, which is that, perhaps, the proposal to expand Mr. Živković's agenda, while at the same time, at the end of the debate, we remain in fact on these previously agreed principles in the College, in order to better prepare ourselves for the next session, with more facts, which will have, above all, our bodies in BiH, as well as entityal and thus address the issue. You don't need to drag in here, really politics, and I don't believe that even in front of the SNSD and in front of the SDS, they were aiming for it. I think that, however, Parliament in this situation should be that body in BiH, where citizens should trust this highest legislative body in the sense that it can protect their human rights and fundamental freedoms, which means that it should certainly condemn such an act, which was, because if we as a parliament adopt laws, which oblige and say that it should protect public order and peace from breaking laws, to a BiH-level law on overall security, then it does mean that BiH's laws are being violated, where Parliament has a double role, in spite of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of our citizens, and at the same time to see the law that this Parliament has passed and to establish whether we are a legal state or not in this country in accordance with the mandate, can violate human and fundamental rights in this country. Therefore, this is required of Parliament and I would suggest that in this direction we go to respect this item of the agenda to open the issue in the debate with the conclusion that it is condemned, condemned, not in the sense that Mrs Palavrić thought that you should now condemn something before you reach the facts. The fact is that people are really, that their lives and assets are threatened and that's enough space to condemn themselves, without the difference that people are concerned about, and I think that we can find a solution to Mr. Chairman, and that again in the agreement that we had on an extended college for ten days, we're going to ask the BiH Ministry of Security and the BiH institutions, we're going to get one picture and one piece of information, and then, of course, we're going to have communication with OHR representatives, who are in charge of civil power and SFOR, related to military issues in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11770	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The replica was answered by Mr Špirić, and for Mr Novaković's word or replica afterwards. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11771	Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, really, there's no need for this kind of talk. There will be more activity around these. I can't just figure out why this is done like this. The club only requires a political act of condemnation of violence. Don't we have the strength to do that? Just tell me. Don't go any further on what the commission's gonna do. Niko one disputes the initiative of any club or any MP. It wasn't our goal. So, only political lawmakers say they do not support violence. What they're going to do next first is legal initiatives, we support them, but let's get out of this, not the agenda point. We're not looking for a agenda point. We ask only one as well as anywhere in normal parliaments to show the political will of those of us sitting here, that we are against violence, and that the authorities will do their part of the job. The parties will have initiatives, so I also ask a colleague of Novaković not to understand it, it was not our goal, as it should not be the goal and others, as we are now looking for some compromise solutions in the square, so I cannot understand it at all. So we're asking this parliament to say, we condemn violence, the rest of us will do every part of the job. The parties will have initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11772	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11773	I thank the chairman. I'll be very brief. Of course, the SDS Club will support the conclusion proposed by the SNSD for a simple reason that the Serbian Democratic Party has clearly condemned this event, not once or twice, and not on one media in all the media, and not by one man, but by all, who had the opportunity to do so, so it is nothing new that we will condemn, I do not know how many others have condemned, I have not followed, if they have not had a chance today. So it's not controversial for me. What I said remains questionable what was done only after the SDS Club's initiative was found out, which is not correct, but it is now on the other side. Of course, correctness is a matter of principle, individuals, clubs, parties, etc. I don't mean to say it, but I answered as a replica, and it really doesn't make sense that a compromise between my proposal and the position of an enlarged college is not to be an extension being the conclusion of the SNSD. Come on, please. It's not a compromise. It has nothing to do with the compromise. It's a legal, legitimate proposal for a conclusion, I don't know if we can draw conclusions beyond the agenda, I don't know within which and how, but if we can, if it isn't, we support it, we really support this conclusion honestly and honestly, and we stay at the initiative and we offer to all clubs whoever wants to sign with us an initiative towards this home to form a commission, so one special ad-hoc commission, which will determine what's going on. Gentlemen, there's been a lot going on. I don't want to say what OHR said, and I have here all the OHR statements, so I have all the SFOR statements, which are quite different from some other statements. That's why we want it to be true about it. There's not much truth. Could be one. Obviously, it is clouded in every way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11774	I thank Mr. Novaković. Are there any more reported? Mr. Bešlagić, then Mr. Jusufović, then Mr. Mišić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11775	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this initiative is a good conclusion, however, I think it is causing certain misunderstandings in one part. I would like to ask representatives of the MPs' club to just add one sentence at the beginning of this text that reads. Not wanting to reduce or suspend the search for people convicted of war criminals, MPs continue this text. I think that's correct and that way we can overcome all these dilemmas that appear here. So the suggestion would be to come to the conclusion. Not wanting to reduce and suspend the search for people convicted of war crimes, war crimes, MPs at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the suspect, I agree, have unanimously condemned the act against this, means this part, and I think that, in fact, we have given and condemned all those who do not do their job, those who work here have done, in fact, something called endangering human life and we have the right as MPs to do so. I think this proposal would go as a conclusion and I think it could go away if SNSD MPs accepted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11776	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Munib Jusufović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11777	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking whether to engage on this issue, and I have a feeling that, however, something like a man say no more as a Member. However, I've been thinking for the basic reason that this initiative has begun, I'm going to allow myself to see it. In each of these discussions, at least I, let's face it, there's a lot of politicization and of the SNSD initiative, which, independently, we clean up by saying the act itself, is still what, however, politicization. I can see the politicisation by both side and answer by the SDS. I'm seeing politicization and in response from the SDA, and I wouldn't say right now, I'm not going to plead today on any initiatives, but I do need to say as a man. The responsibility for the act itself needs to be cleared here. So, these two things need to be separated, but it's clear that I am an act of absolute judgment, that it's both ugly and sad that it's happening, but unfortunately, we're not now, I'm afraid that we're going to have a hard time solving any other political matter. This is about Srbin with priests, Bošnjak and Hrvat silently. Tomorrow, when it happens to be a priestly face, the religious face of the Bosniak people, then we will look at it differently from Croatia as well. I'm afraid we're not ready for much to solve. I want to make it clear that what it is is violence. But aside from responsibility, I don't need a commission to determine who's responsible for what's going on. The former and current RS authorities are responsible, who have never moved their fingers to do the job. The international community is responsible. She can't amnesty herself, and after what I saw and those videos, so much blue and gray as a plum, nobody can tell me today that I don't need to condemn it, absolutely. In your own state, civilians do that, it's an absolute threat to human rights. So that's what I'm trying to say, but I won't vote for anything, but I feel the human need to, after all, judge both the rank and every other act, but I don't want to. The Commission should not speak to me of any investigation as to who is guilty. It is the former and former and current authorities of the RS and the international community. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11778	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Mišić has the word. He gave up. Mr Zorić answered the word. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11779	Well, I just wanted to say one thing that's not exactly what Mr. Jusufović is saying, at least as far as I'm concerned, and here with a quick three more Hrvat consulted. It is not true that the Hrvat are silent, because it is the priest of the Orthodox. We're going to say our position whether it's going to be voted today or next time. I, as club president, said that in the extended college and we respected the agreement nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11780	I thank Mr. Zoruć. If there are no more reports, and there are no more, I am closing the debate on the agenda. Please, we have here a regular and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure request to amend Mr. Potočnik's agenda in writing and it is not disputed that we will plead. As for the demands we received from Mr Živković and Mr Špirić, one refers to a request for the condemnation of acts of violence by this home, and another to the Council of Ministers to create conditions for the work of the SIP. We now have to decide, because there were no requirements for amending the agenda, in the sense that they fit in as agenda points, which would be business and let's see what we do with these conclusions. Whether or not we should make a statement about them before we declare the agenda and the other option is to vote on possible changes to the agenda, so that we can make a statement about them. Mr. Živković asked for one more word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11781	I think I was clear at first, considering that Mr. Chairman, on several occasions, we were already working on the working conclusion of the assembly before the agenda. I'm not suggesting anything but what we've had practice doing so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11782	Thank you very much, Mr. Živković. The College agrees that these two conclusions should be made known before. I propose that as House Chairman, we make a statement first on the conclusion submitted by Mr. Živković, and I will now read it to you, with the addition given by Mr. Bešlagić. The word is for Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11783	Dear Chairman, we have here Mr. Živković's proposal, as far as I know, not Mr. Bešlagić. So, we have a proposal to conclude Mr. Živković and we will support as a club the proposal of Mr. Živković's conclusion, not Mr. Bešlagić. That request, that's not the conclusion we have. It's in the discussion said and I don't know if you have it, I don't have it. I'm guessing you don't have it on you either. So, we will support Mr. Živković's conclusion, because he has a business plight. This conclusion by Mr Bešlagić does not exist. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11784	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word was asked for by Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11785	Your Honor, I'd like to speak to the SNSD Club. This isn't Zivkovic's proposal. This is the SNSD's proposal, requested a ten-minute break to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11786	Before deciding on a break, Mr Avdić asked for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11787	I, Mr. Chairman, welcome ladies and gyspodo MPs, should go ahead with the discussion at the Extended College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, which means that I plead that if the clubs insist on entering as part of the agenda exclusively as part of the agenda. This is already becoming simple... improvisation that before the start of the House of Representatives we have, simply these kind of elaborate conclusions etc. without a written document, which is in front of us. So if we're going to get into today's agenda, I'm asking you, College, so only as a point of the agenda can it appear. This initiative, reflecting the SDS initiative which was today at the Extended College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, means, let us be correct and quite clear as a point of the agenda, not as a previous issue, not as a conclusion. I ask that in this context we declare ourselves and normally that the legitimate proposal is Mr. Bešlagić, we simply have the text, if we will plead, then we simply vote on the addition of Mr. Bešlagić. So it's quite a legitimate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11788	I thank Mr. Avdić. The word was requested by Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11789	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, with the agreement of Mr. Potočnik, to amend the proposal concerning the suspension of the free trade agreement. I propose that this home strengthens the impulse of those conclusions of the House when asked by the Council of Ministers to take appropriate measures to stimulate domestic production, i.e. restrictions on imports. I'd remind you that we've brought those conclusions back about 20-months. We have no signal from the Council of Ministers in this regard, nor have we had any signals at the last session, when Mr Doko spoke about the matter and in this sense I suggest that this House strengthens, that is, the impulse of these conclusions and that it asks the Council of Ministers what is done in the meantime, regarding the conclusions of this Parliament, and about this, indeed, a truly vital question. Another thing I wanted to say about this declaration. In fact, I think there's agreement in this house and, if it doesn't exist, it's kind of questionable that we all agree that SFOR's actions at the Palace are very brutal and that it's falling away from the civilizational measures taken in such situations. I think that such an act, not entering 11 no political aspects in this home, should be condemned and that's what this home is all about, and nothing further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11790	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11791	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in this home, which, of course, did not get into a practice of introducing agendas at the very session at a small door. It's through these various conclusions. We are already having a practical session today and we are discussing the subject, as fairy tales of the agenda, we are discussing the essence and that is not what the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives predicts. For this reason, I plead that Mr. Živković's proposal, all other proposals, should be put, voted on as a proposal for a agenda point, only then to vote on the essence. I have, of course, my point of view and I'm going to say it now and I'm going to say the reasons why I'm going to say it, but I believe that only when it comes to the subject of the session can the theme of the session be voted on essentially. Otherwise, as I said otherwise, there is no such situation in the Rules of Procedure and it is actually the introduction of a point of the agenda to a small door. As far as the essence is concerned, since many have pleaded here, I have to say that there is a lot of politicism in this matter and that is what we need the least. No Niko here has told the speaker that the main thing, or the essence of the matter here, is that eight years after Dejton, the ninth year there are fugitives, indicted for war crimes, who do not wish to surrender to The Hague tribunal and what authorities who are competent to do so so so far have not done, the RS authorities. If the RS authorities had done their part of the job, there would be no need for SFOR's action at the Palace. I, on my part, can express regret that the action caused injury to the faces, but action would not require RS authorities to do their part of the job. That's what nobody talked about here except Mr. Jusufović. Therefore, in this situation, of course, the investigation should be carried out on the circumstances of the case, on the circumstances of the event and only when the investigation is carried out, then I can declare whether there has been an excess of the mandate or there has been no excess of the mandate. SFOR has acted, please do not let our decisions discourage SFOR from executing its mandate, and his mandate is to arrest the fugitive war crimes indictees. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11792	Please, let's make a deal. I'll give the replicas and I'll conclude the debate. Before the plea, you'll get a break, and before I give the replicas, I want to go here for the public, and I want to say that I'm on an extended college, and on the basis of one quality preparation, I mean, I've done everything I can to make this session go well, and that was the deal, I just want to say, that was the deal, and I repeat the third time, that was the agreement of the club chiefs. I'm also saying that there wouldn't be speculation about whether or not I'm giving someone my word, so this is what I'm doing right now. But believe me, I'll be able to determine myself according to these agreements and the functioning of the Expansive. I'm asking you to understand what I'm doing today. Replica Mr Špirić, Mr Novaković and Mr Gligorić. The replicas are exhausted. Ten-minute stand at the request of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11793	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, 12 I really think this is going regularly. I think people want to come to some conclusion. Whether it's a part of the agenda or it's going to be a working conclusion, which is not anti-business and it's not the first time and it says whether we're principled or not, but what bothered me, I have to be honest, so we want to condemn the act of violence and Ljalagic agrees with Mr. Bešlagić that we don't want any moment of searching for suspected war criminals to stop. But what makes me particularly ugly about this is that justice is an action because the authorities haven't done or done their part of the job, and you don't think all Srbin are going to turn into all the trackers in that way. You're asking for a change in authority that doesn't work. So you can't guard the government, be with her in the coalition, and say, they won't work and they should kill the priests. We need to kill the people. Then you want to turn me into the tracker's dog. I don't want to do it, but the authorities do their job and I can't figure out there's someone who won't condemn the act of violence. I'm not looking forward to anywhere that I've condemned an act of violence anywhere and I don't want to talk about SFOR here, no one's innocent. So, we're just asking that it be condemned, and the rest is a matter of questioning, of research, of not getting into it and, please, there's no need now for what we're talking about here to be, of God, to sharpening the situation that we're running political dialogues whether there's a readiness or not. We don't get angry if people say okay today, it's a good thing you beat up priests. So we're not angry and that's what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11794	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković then Mr. Gligorić and she's a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11795	I think that part of the replica took Mr. Špirić in his replica. I honestly can't understand that every goal justifies, I don't understand it. It's not clear to me that there's anything we can do to justify beating up civilians. Unarmed priests, even if there was a verbal duel between those who beat and those who were beaten. Seats are armed, on the other hand unarmed people. I can't justify it. I can't accept that anyone can justify this act anything. _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Sir. I'd beg the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11797	Mr. Duraković, if you're looking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11798	to allow me to argue, and if my colleagues are nervous I can get out, of course it's not a dispute and if they don't like to listen, I can also get out. Sometimes I don't like to hear what they're saying, but I hear it, I hear it. So let's not argue, too, and I repeat the conclusion again, and I repeat again, we are not ready to enter these conclusions now, because look out then we did what Mr. Džaferović says, we have opened the agenda point, we are now coming up with more conclusions. We have the conclusion, I suggest that we declare that conclusion, and we have the next proposal for Mr Špirić's conclusions, 13 we declare ourselves to be the point of Mr Potočnik's agenda. We plead and end the session. Of course, I appreciate the request for a break, and I think we could all use a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11799	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11800	Mr. Chairman, I volunteered for the replica because Mr. Džaferović tried to solve the problem and condemned the politicisation, and at the same time, it seemed to me he fell into a trap and then set it big but between action and between what authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina should do and of course in Republika Srpska. This is where Parliament is in the need to simply condemn this act of violence, because if we are talking about a concrete action in that case, and you have emphasized this military structure, they know how it is done and how it is done and how it is done. There are rules. Even in war, the excessive use of force must not be carried out. It exists in both civilian and military areas. So here they could have done it quite differently in a way that if they needed to surround the house, they kept it under lockdown for a month or two days, etc. The least of the problems is beating up innocent people. Therefore, do not be afraid in this country of anyone, not a civilian administrator, not a representative of SFOR. We simply, I'm telling you, we're going to get into a situation where in this country, there's going to start beating up mass citizens, and that's why the issue of this country's independence is being raised. It doesn't matter that the Serbian priests, in this case, were killed. Other people will suffer. Here Parliament must have this power, this determination and Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat equally strong in terms of not being able to work gentlemen like that in this country, it must have been from civilians, because they had to know if they were attacking a religious object of what implications they would pull apart from the civil part and civil structures, because the church, without the difference that is concerned, has a specific weight in every nation on the planet. And that's what we hear. The people expect, citizens expect the political and civil courage of this parliament whether we have it or not. If we don't have it for these or those reasons. Because of the political Canculan parties and other interests, we will have a situation that for a long time in this country we will be under the protection of the most indifferent species as we had in the early 18th century and at the beginning of the 21st century. That's when we had Kalaj as manager, today we have a representative. Why are we in this situation? We need to take that burden off ourselves, so I'm asking you to have that civic power. What do we care about both the High Representative and SFOR and our chairs and our functions? It is absolutely irrelevant if a single human face is injured in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I expect you as the Presidency to have that power. And you absolutely don't care what the OHR thinks or what SFOR thinks. No one can beat up priests or any citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a way it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11801	It's time, Mr. Gligorić. Three minutes, I think. Okay. I thank Mr. Džaferović. Stop by 11 and 15. Thank you very much. Pardon me, Gligorić. Dear MPs, we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] I've concluded the debate and I'm staying with it, so the debate on the agenda is closed. 14 We will make known the demands of the representatives. If Mr. Živković wishes to further explain the request for a break and the debate is absolutely over for me. Here you go, Mr. Živković. You want to get involved.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11802	I will point out once again because I would not say the intentional abuses of Dr. Živković's initiative is the initiative of the Party of Independent Social Democrats of the Party of Independent Social Democrats. I'm just in front of the club explaining the proposal for a working conclusion. I would ask the College to set up a working conclusion here and not to let us work past the MPs, but we also won't allow at some of the sessions when others were chaired, and now it's not allowed. I thank the chairman for making this practice possible for us. All MPs have received a proposal for a working conclusion that we have minimally mentioned with the last sentence, which I consider not affecting the essence of our conclusion, but in any case it gives our commitment and completes it. I would ask the MPs to vote for this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11803	I thank Mr. Živković. I'm taking a five-minute break. Before we take a break, I just want to warn you how I'm going to act as president for the conclusion. Since the Rules of Procedure do not explicitly provide for this possibility, but since it explicitly does not prohibit it, and since earlier practice has been such that the conclusions have been adopted, I will respect this custom today, and everything else will have to be discussed and taken responsibility. That'll be the attitude after the break. Thank you very much. It's a five-minute stop. Please don't step away from the scene. Warning before we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] I got it from our services, if you're leaving the hall, pull out the card, because it always records your presence, because of the vote. Please cooperate. We've all met for the first time with this technique and we're going to really try to meet you, but also here in the College to lead the session in quality and to use these opportunities that are ahead of us. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, you asked for a break. Do you want to or not want to? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11804	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have asked for a break, first of all because of the club's consultations and the conclusion-proposing consultation, so I have suggested and suggested that this conclusion be something, because it is rather unclear in the second paragraph that it is – MPs are asking the competent state and entity institutions to examine this case and inform the Bosnia and Herzegovina public, noting the need for 15 arrests of war crimes indictees. So the war crimes suspects. In doing so, it does not diminish the need. 'Cause be careful, it's not about our wish or whether it's gonna be that or not. So that's something else entirely, and I can say that here's what I suggest is that the conjecture suggests this suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11805	Do you accept Mr. Živković? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that we first declare the proposal for a working conclusion submitted by the SNSD MEPs' Club with this suggestion made by Mr Novaković. The time left for your vote has increased from 5 to 10 seconds. And I beg you to, please. You have written with this suggestion made by Novaković. It will be. We're starting with a vote. Vote now. Here I am happier hands, working. The results of the vote. A total of 36 MPs voted. For 24, 2 abstentions and against 10. The conclusion has a total majority. Now we're going entityically. We have 12 MPs from the Federation for, so that's enough. From RS 12 enough. So the conclusion is accepted. I thank all MPs for their understanding. We're going to the conclusion Mr. Špirić gave. I'll read it to you. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to submit a report to this House within 10 days on the activities it has undertaken for the optimal work of the SIPE. We're approaching the vote. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Join the vote. I'll get it in writing, here I get it in writing. I'm just reading what I get in writing from the service. So, please, the results of the vote under this conclusion are: 29 MPs voted in total. For 24, abstention 2, versus 3. It has most of the total and has most of the entity. So we've adopted this conclusion, too. And we're going to make a statement about Mr. Potočnik's proposal to supplement the agenda. I remind you that Mr Potočnik's request was to include the item of the agenda under the heading – Breaking up of the free trade agreement with the Republic of Croatia and the Association of Serbia-Montenegro. We're approaching a plea on this proposal from Mr. Potočnik. I'm asking you to vote now. How long is it here, not 10 seconds? Please, we'll vote again here. I thank you for your patience and understanding, because this is the first time we've ever used technique. Here's where it started to work. Please be disciplined, too. 16 So we approach the vote again. When I tell you to vote, then approach. Vote now. The results of the vote. In total, 37 MPs voted in favour of the initiative and Mr Potočnik's proposal 10, abstentioned 6, against 21. So he didn't pass Mr. Potočnik's request to supplement the agenda with this point. I thank all the MPs for their patience and I realize that the 33rd session of this house has its next agenda. I have to read it because of the magnetogram. So point 1. It's a 32nd-session record, 2nd. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Council of Ministers' request to consider draft law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposed Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 9. The proposal to budget Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004 (first reading), 10. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004 (first reading), 11. Review of the BiH Financial Audit Office Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions on the audit carried out for 2003 : (a) the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (b) the BiH Presidency, (c) the Constitutional Court of BiH, (e) the BiH Council of Ministers, (f) the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (g) the Ombucmen for Human Rights BiH, (h) the Ministry of Finance of BiH, (i) the Ministry of Statistics of BiH, (j) the Ministry of European Integration of BiH, (k) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, (i) the Centre for the Remove of Mines of BiH, (n) the Office for Joint Affairs of the BiH Institutions, (f) the State Border Services of BiH, (p) the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, (q) the BiH Election Commission, (f) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, (t) Directorate for Civil Aviation of BiH, (t) Directorates of BiH, (f) Directorate for Civil Aviation in BiH, 17th and the Institute of BiH, the Institute for Investment of BiH, the Authority for the Authority, 12th and the Authority for Investment of BiH). Business report of the Financial Audit Office for 2003, 13. Discussion: (a) Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003, (b) Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2003, 14. A proposal for conclusions on authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations, and general acts, 15. Proposal for a Resolution on the 2004-2005 Declaration of Youth and Years of Solidarity (Proposer Tihomir Gligorić), 16. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text: (a) Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina and (b) Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the European Patent Organisation on Co-operation in the area of patents, (b) Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Swiss Federal Council, (c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on road transport of passengers and freight. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. A record from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives you received this morning on the benches. I hope you've been able to read it. I'm opening a discussion on the record. If there are no reports, can we make a statement about the record? Who's for the record, please? Okay. We're going to vote. Vote now. So 28 MPs voted, 27 for and 1 against. No abstentions. I find that the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives have been adopted. I'll warn you with now that we approach the vote and thank you for the intervention. I'm still asking for understanding about the technique. Thank you very much. We're moving on to second point. They're Ad.2. Representatives' questions and answers Answers to parliamentary questions from last to this session were received by Mr. Beriz Belkić and Momčilo Novaković at the 28th session and Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, who asked the question at the 31st session. Do honourable MPs want to comment on the answers? Mr. Novaković. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11806	The Honorable Chairman, this is the bigger second answer to the parliamentary question I've received, so these last sessions seem to be a little bit on the move. Unfortunately, what I read seems a lot worse than I assumed when I asked this question. What did I find out from this question? Well, I've learned that there are 927 employees in the Public Radio Service, and it seems to be 111, and the rest receive salaries. I also learned that there are 7.3% of Srbin, 66.1% of Bošnjak, 9.7% of Hrvat and 13.3% of Bosanac who do not exist as a nation, at least I do not know that they exist. Or maybe it's Jugosloven if they were once Jugosloven, so now they're Bosanac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11807	Let the people say what they are. You can't tell them what they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11808	I also assume that a very small number of Srbin have declared themselves Bosanac, so this figure could be added to the first 66.1% figure, and then we would get an even more catastrophic situation than it really is. Although gentlemen this is a public tv service from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the situation should be much, much different than it is. What I am particularly concerned about seems to be the fact that this surplus of workers who are clearly present here and how they solve it in the way that surpluses are handled in all other institutions are not in the minds of anyone. What is the difference between workers who are left without a job, between miners, between workers of any other institution, between the Ministry of Defence, workers of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, etc. who can run out of work seems to be the only former employees, in Bosnia and Herzegovina's radio television, cannot be left without a job and must be paid by citizens through telecom accounts. Gentlemen, is this the Republika Srpska that participates somewhere with about 1/3 of the total funds of the public TV service supposed to finance all this surplus and should the Federation also finance all this excess workers? There can also be a series of conclusions here that I really wouldn't want from this place right now. What I meant by this question was to warn that this public radio television service must be the service of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all the peoples of this country. Unfortunately, he didn't do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11809	I thank Mr. Novaković. The comments received were exhausted, the answers to the parliamentary questions received. Here, I asked if there were any comments. No problem. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go, Mr. Jović. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11810	Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs, I asked at a meeting at our House of Representatives on 19 March what was the matter with the stolen, kidnapped or robbed funds given from the Federation's budget to criminal factors in the event of the murder of late Minister Joza Leotar? And instead of giving me a decent answer as a representative, I got an answer from a certain gentleman who signed up as the Chief Inspector General, whom I didn't even ask, I asked the D.A. and the judiciary if they were going to launch an investigation in two directions. The first to return the stolen money, and in the second to definitely make this terrorist act a recognizable cause. So, the Honorable gentleman, the police inspector general says it has been acted upon by the public promise of the then prime minister of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that these awards have been paid. That is why he finds reasons, because he said in good time, they have been introduced to the Federation government, the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of Sarajevo, the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the State's Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in a special way he is apostrophe and representatives of certain international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been involved in this shameful act. So we didn't get anything new, but what we knew was that the funds were missing, the killer wasn't found. So I ask a question again, and I don't think such answers deserve this home, I, like Miro Jović, may not need any answer, I may be like this and like that, but while I'm sitting in this house, I'm not with a person with a name and a last name, but a man who's in the legislative body of this country who needs to be respected and respected by every institution and institution, and in a special way, those who don't do their job, who want to convince us that they are doing something. So I repeat my question, according to those whom it was referred to, it is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution, and the Minister of the Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because here the gentleman here says that the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has prepared the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office for what has happened. So I invite this gentleman, instead of explaining his own failures to me, to do for himself what is his duty, which is to find murderers, and to those who lead bulldozers, billboards, or I don't know whether or not I other and international factors should bring thieves to prison.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11811	I thank Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. This exhausted comments on the answers received. Now I'm opening up the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions and asking you to sign up. You have the possibility of applying and I'll be here, I'm on the display now have three currently registered representatives for questions. The first is Mr Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, then Mr. Ibrahim Đedović. And it was on display also recorded Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. So I only have three seats, so Mr. Momčilo Novaković. So Ivo Miro Jović. 20 IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11812	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11813	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11814	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask one question which is a product of information that serves in the public, it may also be disinformation that it is owned by one or the other, but in any case by the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina there have been over 1,000 of any apartments, from one room to five persons. Today they say no more and no more. My question is - Are the information given accurate and to what extent? If they're correct, and in part, what's the number and size of the apartments, which are their users today and on what basis? - And will it and who will be able to do so, or return those apartments if, I repeat, if, under alleged signs, they are alienated, or as long as they are owned by the current users, or how they are alienated, if they are alienated and who is responsible for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11815	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Please allow questions in writing here to the Secretary of the House. The word has Mr Ibrahim Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11816	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two brief questions for the Council of Ministers. First – How many citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have sought and received a national release in the '96 period. concluded with 2003 and the data sorted by year of submission of applications, year of birth of applicants, professional preparation, municipality of residence and new countries of destinations? And the second question is - What are the real reasons for the delay in meeting the necessary conditions for the export of meat and meat processing from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and when will these obstacles be removed and what is the date, I stress, what is the date when these products will be able to be exported freely to other markets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11817	I thank Mr. Đedović. The word is Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11818	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question is actually a suggestion relating to the work of our Secretariat and the College is a matter of maturity, in fact, I personally and more MPs complain, 21 receives documents, laws, proposals of late materials. They mostly come to my address today and lately it's a very common problem. So you have half a agenda, we need the material here on our way to chase around Parliament. I can accept getting the report from the committee, the alignment and the rest at Parliament's session, but I cannot accept that half the material for the session comes after the session. Secondly, the way that materials are packed mostly for my colleagues comes semi-decomposed envelopes where it's not complete content. So I appeal to the College and the new chairman, who, by the way, want successful work and good co-operation with all of us, to do something about not getting the papers for the session after the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11819	I thank Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. I don't have any more reports. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11820	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is primarily the result of the previously asked question at the Petrovo Municipality Assembly to which I, of course, ask for an answer here and here, as these people have sought it at that level. And the question is: Do the citizens of Petrova live in the Municipality of Petrovo or in the Municipality of Gracanica? Or in Petrovo and Gracanica or Petrova through Gracanica? Namely, it is the Petrova Municipality located in Republika Srpska, where an act by the Election Commission is titled on the name Gracanica through Petrova. The name Gracanica through Petrovo is also entered in the ID cards and stamps the municipality of Petrovo, without Gracanica. Let me remind you that in 1991 the municipality was formed by a referendum of citizens, part of the local communities of Gracanica, Lukavac, Maglaj and then Petrov and so formed a municipality which now has this name. Will it happen to them that they have to draw new ID cards and if they don't have a Serbian prefix, but they have a clue where they live, so tomorrow someone will say it's Petrovo, and some will say it's Gračanica. The question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11821	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11822	I repeat another proposal that has been made
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11823	You can only go to the microphone, Mr. Avdić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11824	I am fine, the proposal which has already been elaborated on parliamentary issues, and it is that the College should give an answer to the next initiative, which is – When, in May, I propose to organise a thematic session with the Council of Ministers in full composition, and on the subject and under the working title as we have said in both committees of the House of Nations and the House of Representatives ask the Council of Ministers answers. So it's a thematic session where we would try to implement and establish a new methodology for the functioning of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. So I suggest once again that the College consider the possibility of holding a thematic session with the Council of Ministers on the subject, I repeat again, so MPs are asking the Council of Ministers to answer. And it would be the right way to communicate directly with the Council of Ministers in terms of realising parliamentary issues that can be answered directly on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11825	I thank Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11826	I wrote this question for the second time, and I wrote it here as a note. So, the question addressed to the Council of Ministers and I wonder or wonder about them – What will the Council of Ministers do to make the border crossings of Bosnia and Herzegovina look as beautiful and as basic as possible for one border crossing? I ask this question for practical reasons, I don't know what it's like at other border crossings, but I live near the border and I cross, say, 2-3 border crossings a week. The one at Ljubusko's, at Grud's and in Posushje's. It happens that at these border crossings we have so many holes that people have to cross carefully with their car so they don't break the link, and on the other hand we have border crossings towards the Republic of Croatia that are equal to European border crossings and I think that if we don't have the means to make such border crossings, then we can courte a little of these approaches and that citizens and all those who visit Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also shed light. Let's just say it's often said that it enters the dark zone. That people, people make fun of themselves. But let's put on one lamp, if we can't get 10, let's patch up those holes, every country road, because people get organized looks more neat, people get organized and they rip holes. If I can't use the asphalt, I can take the sand. So, I'm setting up a bird for the Council of Ministers when our border crossings will look nicer? So they don't have to be richer, but with a little money, this problem can be fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11827	I thank Mr. Zorić. I don't have any more attorneys to ask questions. I thank you all. I'm closing second point. 23 We move to the third item of the agenda. That's Ad.3. Council of Ministers' request to consider draft law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Law amending the Foreign Trade Policy Act as well as the proposals for the next three points have been sent to you this 6th month by mail. The applicant therefore requested an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a debate on this request from the Council of Ministers. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers want one? He doesn't want to. Mr. Mladen Potočnik picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11828	And it's not about those three points yet, which is for the Institute of Measurement, for the Institute of Standards and intellectual property. Are we going to vote now only on the procedure, or are we going to vote on the essence of the law, I'm interested?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11829	It's just about the legal procedure and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11830	Wait, is it just the procedure or the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11831	Just a request from the Council of Ministers to go along with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11832	Okay. Then I'll wait until that point comes when the law itself is in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11833	When there's a debate about the law. Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. Anybody else want some? If he does not wish to conclude the debate on the third point and I ask you to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this proposal for a law on foreign trade policy in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. So a total of 33 MPs voted. For 33, no abstentions, no one is against and I agree that we unanimously adopted this request by the Council of Ministers for the examination of this law under Article 104. Thank you very much. 24 We move to point four Ad. 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a motion hearing. No Niko's answering. Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11834	Chairman, my last name in all three Bosnian herbic languages is Potočnik, not Potóčnik to begin with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11835	I'll appreciate that. I wasn't making a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11836	Okay. As far as the law itself is concerned, I have an objection to the locations proposed in these laws. Namely, we now have a situation that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11837	Mr Potkčnik, Potočnik, I apologize, I am obliged to correct you, we are only discussing today if we will according to Article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11838	Thank you. Okay. All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11839	And the debate will be a commission and then at the House, and I ask you to respect this. If there are no reports of a hearing, I suggest we make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers. Please vote now. I konstatirati that 32 MPs voted. They were all for, so 32 for, no one abstention, no one against and this request by the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Law establishing the Institute of Measurements ofTrology under Article 104 has been accepted. Thank you very much. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure So same procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you. I ask you to plead with me on the request of the Council of Ministers. Vote now. Excuse me, vote now. The results of the vote, a total of 31 MPs, for 29, please read the results. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11840	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11841	Well, don't let me, it's my business whether I vote or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11842	I'm asked by a man who hasn't voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11843	But you don't have to comment on it. I haven't been able to read it while I'm looking and you're calling me right now. But good. I'm in, it's nothing controversial. So he voted 31 MPs, for 29, abstention 1, versus 1. I konstatirati that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of this law in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I thank the MPs. We're moving on to point six. Ad.6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask you to vote on the request of the Council of Ministers. Vote now. The results of the vote were-voted by 32 MPs. They were all for, no one restrained, no one against. I agree that we unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for Intellectual Property pursuant to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to the seventh point. That's Ad.7. The proposal for a law on work in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (I remind you of first reading) The bill was presented to you on 4 March this year. At the 31st session, you will be reminded of the House's adoption of the motion for consideration under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Committee is responsible for providing us with an opinion on 16 March. It was sent to you on the 7th of this month. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Any reports? If there isn't, thank you. I'm closing the debate in my first reading. Now we'll get to the bottom of the bill in the first reading. Please plead. Vote now. So 34 MPs voted in total. They were all for, no one restrained, no one against. I agree that we unanimously adopted this bill in the first reading. 26 Since there were no amendments and since the Law was unanimously adopted in the first reading, the College proposes to the MPs if they agree that we should declare this law in the second reading. Would you like a word, Mr. Moranjkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11844	...if by hair, I mean, then Mr. Špirić must be...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11845	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. I'm asking the House to state whether we want to make a statement about this law in the second reading. Please state if we're going to do another reading. Vote now. Okay. Thank you. 33, abstention 1. So there's a mood in the House to make a statement about this law and in the second reading. I propose that we vote in the second reading on the proposal for a law on work in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. Vote now. So 35 MPs voted. It was not abstention, it was not against and I find that this house unanimously with 35 votes for and in the second reading adopted the draft labour law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank all the MPs and we move on to the eighth item of the agenda. That's Ad.8. The proposal for a law on passing a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) You know that at the 30th session we discussed the proposal for a law in the first reading. Also, after a longer discussion, we are suggested to try to find appropriate solutions in order to adopt this law. The House then adopted the conclusion that within 15 days, the competent commission is preparing a new report. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a new report sent to you on 6 this month. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Okay. I'm saying there's no record of a hearing. I thank you all. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Vote now. So they voted 36 MPs, of which 35, 1 abstention, none against. I find that with 35 votes for, 1 abstention, we passed the proposal for a law on passing a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. 27 In the name of the College, I ask the same question, and I pray that the House declare ourselves whether we are going to adopt this law in another reading today. I'm asking you to identify yourself on that. Vote now. Thank you. It voted 36 MPs. Everyone has come forward to make a statement about this law and in the second reading. Please state the proposal for a law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a second reading. Vote now. So 34 MPs joined the vote. They were all in. No one restrained, no one against. I agree that the proposal for a law on passing a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in this house and in another reading. I thank all the MPs. I have a suggestion. So because of the obligations that college members have in half 1 should be one break from 20 minutes to half an hour. Do you want us to take that break now and continue at 1 o'clock and make all the commitments by then and lunch and finish everything and that we can continue uninterrupted with work. Thank you very much. Resume work at 1 o'clock. I beg your understanding of the Council of Ministers, there will be no pause later. Thank you. Both for consultations and for lunch, and now we can continue the debate without interruption. [[PAUZA]] We're going on a big agenda and I'm asking you to do the same thing. So we're going to the ninth item of the agenda. That's Ad.9. The proposal to budget Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004 (first reading) The draft budget is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We received the draft budget on 22 March 2004. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 24.3. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. She gave us a report on the 8th of this month. The debate is in the first reading, and I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Špirić answered his word before the other speakers, Mr. Kragulj. Here you go, Mr. Kragulj. If she wants Minister Ljerka Marić, I'll give her my word right away. He won't be angry, Mr. Kragulj. But here's the word Mr. Kragulj got. Here you go, Mr. Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11846	Here's a very short one. We discussed on two occasions the draft budget and the proposal for institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international commitments for 2004 and also the Law on the implementation of the budget. 28 Some specific circumstances, i.e. some of the specific elements of the Commission, i.e. as a representative of the Commission, could not be expressed in relation to what is already here through the report established, given and with which recommendations and with which conclusions to adopt the budget. What is certainly important to point out, which is that this budget where the Commission has found that it is quite late, is one of the issues that should not be repeated in the next period. The second question is that the current state, i.e. the situation of the past period, has been recognised through the budget. In particular, this applies to certain institutions that have maintained very high participation and in certain relations, they will jump out of a certain average when it comes to certain expenditures, base expenditures on wages, on material fees, on other costs, etc. It is also important to note that because new institutions are being formed that we do not have a practical budget at all times, that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Presidency, which is the Budgetary, is very difficult to come into a position to propose a transparent budget in which income is clearly seen, predict income and predict expenditure. This is one general assessment of what the Commission has found in its proposal, i.e. through this report. It is also important here to note that the biggest open issue in the 2004 budget is the establishment and financing of new institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is quite incorrectly said through the budget of a certain provision in the budget. It has been said to be achieved on the basis of certain agreements with entities where the establishment and transfer of certain transactions from the level of entities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. institutions established at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and within the framework of reforms carried out, will be practically transferred from the entity to the funding team, proportionate to the financing of institutions. This remained quite unarranged since it is based on certain agreements between the entity governments, or the government president, or the president of the entity and Council of Ministers' ministries. These are the biggest objections that could be considered undefined, as an open question where in the next period we will never practically have a clear budget, a precise budget, we will never be able to know what the budget is in its scope, but it will depend practically on the practice that will be applied in the next period that is higher, the fruit will be more specific arrangements, than what the MPs here in this Parliament will be able to take into account and decide on. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11847	Thank you very much, Mr. Kragulj. Before I give my word to Mrs. Ljekra Marić, Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to welcome the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr. Pamuk, to thank him for his interest and for attending our session, and the next reported is Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go, Mrs. Marić. Before that, Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11848	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here we finally have the honor and pleasure to propose to you the budget for the current year. I'm not really going to list all the reasons why there's been a delay. You will, of course, potentify it as always. What we can say for the introduction is that at the end of the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the law that will finally specify the last day when 29 should be brought to the budget of a state like this and like everything in the world and that will be if God gives 31 March. It means we're not in a position to discuss the date. Finally, the law will be in the process in a month, and by that law, we will resolve these issues now. Regarding the initial opening speech of Mr Kragulj, a commission that I greatly respect, which has always given us very useful suggestions, because we have consulted both last time and for rebalancing, means making this budget. As far as wages are concerned, in general in this budget, the number of employees, everything else, means the conclusion of the presidency and the conclusion of the Council of Ministers is the Council of Ministers and the conclusion of the Council of Ministers from one day to the adoption of a bill on salaries by the 9th month. You know, so these are some advances related to the making of this budget and to the budget for the current year to start working. The pay law isn't over. We tried one, with a few decisions to regulate it. So we're finally going to start and when we start doing the Pay Law, we're going to inform you that we're all going to get involved in this law from the beginning to try to do a little bit of stretching, spaces in a quality way so that we can finance it in the next year. As far as this budget is concerned, it is planned to mean 480,568,875,00 KM balanced in a way that part belongs to financing, serviceing external debt, and part for the administrative needs of these institutions. The administration is 211.968,875; external debt service is 268 million and 600. You will notice that the administrative part is higher by around 30,000 than the rebalancing, and that service, for the purpose of serving external debt 55 million less than last year, is naturally influenced by a course of dollars that is extremely favourable, for us it is quite low and means the year 2004 which has a smaller payment plan which is very good. Yes, we've also been doing a projection, but we're going to send that report to you later on about borrowing the country from 31.12.2002, and we're going to consider that later. As far as budget transparency is concerned, as regards the transparency of the budget, it has a methodology that exists in entities, what will be the new law covered, a methodology which means saying what is being treated in the budget. When you look at the meaning from the beginning, you'll see what we've had all along, that's when you look at the estimated revenue of the budget, when you look at the sources, the indirect revenues, the own, the revenue from our own activity, the special fees and the fees, the current support and transfer from the entity, so we're concluding what we've always concluded, and that's the state has no original income. What we're working on is the establishment of this administration. The administration will very quickly propose to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, so the Council of Ministers will have a set of laws that we have announced, which means for the realisation of the country's original incomes, the payment of one account and the setting up of the situation in the fiscal area, so for 2005, this page should not be shown in this way. As for the expenditure, they really follow the current needs. The current needs differ from last year regarding our intention to negotiate in 6 months, if I hope with the European Commission about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. For that matter, we accepted the very quick adoption of a set of laws from various areas. You are the ones who end up working the most on it, by the administration of indirect taxation intelligence services, military, competitive council, insurance agencies, many, many, many institutions need to be set up and funded. We've planned enough resources for something, the S.H.I.E.L.D., etc. For something we've given initial funds and that's why this budget is made in one ordinary way, which means it's also made from a regular regular budget and from a part called an annex that can be methodologically unusual, but if we say that half of the budget is financed by transfers from entities, then this is nothing unusual. This difference means the means that only operationally enables the start of the Ministry of Defence, the Administration of indirect taxation, the intelligence services in such a way that this will eventually be covered and it will be nothing special, nor will we break the framework nor will any deficit 30 or anything else appear. So the entities have accepted it, considered it normal, realistic, to transfer funds through jurisdiction. In addition, there were no specific problems related to budgeting. There really is a problem with the number of employees. We are constantly stressing the need and we are talking about very careful employment of new people and insisting on applying the internal employment method for the military, withdrawing people from entities to the state level, that it be the same for the SIP, that it be for intelligence services, that we don't get into a situation where we fire a huge number of people, and that the people who exist, means that we fire them in entities, and we hire some other people up there. It would be very good for us to spend all these competitions transparently, etc. But we won't be able to overcome it financially, so that's one problem that's added. Here you looked, if you looked at it in detail, so this is for the CIPS for this year, expecting a re-deposit of 5.6 million, which will be necessary to end this equipment now. A nickname that has proved to be very successful, which continues. We announced a registration tender the other day, the license plate, this, what, mostly this year means we expect about 30 and some million from the CIPS. One part means that the agency itself is financed and some others are financed to finance the needs of the budget. The last part of the budget is the suspension of external debt service in 2004 by creditors for this year. You know that this part is financed directly from the entity by transferring funds to one account and paying off external creditors. Here's the structure of how many Federations, how many Republika Srpska, how much creditor means for this year. The service is going very neatly. We completed a standby arrangement with the IMF in February. Negotiations are announced for June, July of this year, if we stick to what we've written here. Not just us, but the entities mean, so we have to follow very closely what's going on here. We need to do some more things about some other laws that concern the entity more, and then probably in July we should continue negotiating with the IMF for a new arrangement that should be more favourable, etc. What we still have a concrete obligation is a memorandum signed with the European Commission which is also very demanding. If you have seen external funding, you have seen 24 million aid to the European Commission in our budget. So this assistance is again linked to a lot of tasks that we've taken over to carry out. So all of us should work together to actually adopt this budget, and we should adopt it, fix it in a way that means that something is redistributed which is, which will be more necessary, which will mean and show at one point that maybe it's not well planned. However, we must all be aware of the reality, that is, the economic situation, that is, the revenue side of this budget. All when it comes to this year should endure as we did last year, and in 2005, according to another methodology, it really works. Here's an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11849	I thank Minister Marić. The word is Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11850	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, and I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on your appointment as chairman, and I welcome all my colleagues. 31 I will say something about the budget and normally, respecting what Mr Kragulj said, which was presented by the minister, she said a general thing that might be necessary at this point and no longer be needed, but, as most of you probably I have seen these individual budget users and I have one remark that, without which I think, if I don't adopt, it's hard for me to vote for the budget. It is the budget user number 20. It is – Regulatory Agency for Communications, RAC. The eyes of RAK's acronyms, they have 75 employees and are scheduled for salaries of 2,882.820,00 marks. I was counting on it to come out 3,203,00 stamps per employee. I don't know if there are 75 doctors working in science or anyone, but personally, I don't think they're more important or they need to have an average salary higher than any ministry. I watched the salaries by the ministries are on average around 1.650,00 marks and in that sense I have a concrete proposal. I propose that the budget user 20 in position of 611100 is replaced by 2,882.820,00, i.e. to be reduced by a figure of 1.397.820,00 and to remain 1,485,000.00, and that these funds be transferred to one of the Ministries, and I propose to the Ministry of Civil Affairs or to reserve for the new institutions, I really do not insist, for the new institutions submitted by Mr Kragulj. I was going to say, given the flood situation that took place these days, especially in certain regions, that it might be tricky for these millions and nearly 400,000 marks to divide areas from floods. But I don't insist on it, so it's acceptable to leave this in reserve for new institutions. In any case, I'm not about to give them this much, what are we going to do with this money, whatever our agreement is? That's all I had, thank you very much. [[or conscience doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11851	Thank you very much, Mr. Huskić. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go. I'm no longer registered. Sign up regularly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11852	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed minister, I am pleased when the minister said that there were no special problems in drawing up the budget. But then the question arises why do we have the budget here in the second half or in half, why do we have it in half of April, and we don't have it within what time does the Rules of Procedure order the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, so that's October 15th to come out with the Budget Proposal for next year? But that's not the current problem, the minister said well, we will dispute it or not, because no one decides this home and business decisions in this country almost commits. But I don't think this can be called in any way the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget, I think this could be called an act on acquired positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Will anyone ask themselves how these institutions are financed? I was talking about one illogicality that party presidents are taking key ministerial posts and now look, how nice people have increased everyone in their ministry and who could have kidnapped them. So here you have, let's say, you have the Ministry of Civil Affairs, an increase of 14%, so you have the Ministry of Security, an increase of 116%. This is a new ministry, though, so you have, so I'm saying here's the president of the party for BiH, here's the HDZ president in this second, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, an increase of 119%, the Foreign Ministry, also increased 160,22,000, and then eventually the Presidency increased itself by 9% in that same logic. But does anyone ever think if it's time for us to think about whether what we've got so far is good? Is it logical and is it possible for the Presidency to spend as two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Is it logical that we finance different party offices and details of the Presidency if it is the BiH Presidency? Is it logical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I can understand the DKP network, but it has its offices all over BiH, who is represented in these offices, does anyone know? Does everyone need to open an office in the city where they were born to hire a counselor, nephew, aunt, friend, etc. So that's what can't withstand a test of time and another thing, I think it's a lot that the foreign ministry spends so much money at a time when BiH is in a financial situation like this. That it is a lot to have DKP networks as well as the most developed, we have a developed branch rather than a developed DKP network as Europe's most developed countries. So someone has to ask whether this is a budget or an act on acquired financial positions that no one wants to curb, because what is particularly in the eyes, so we're in the middle of it. Come on, I can understand the lack of financial resources, but between the declarative, political things that all political parties talk about between what we adopt here, there's a big gap. How is it possible that the SIP, which is to count 1,000 people in the following year, spends as much as the BiH Presidency where you have three people who don't know, I'm sorry that it is so, instead of which the High Representative is wearing boots and visiting Travnik yesterday, I don't know the flooded places. Is it not logical for people to spend as much as they need or to transfer the OHR to them? So, I can't figure out that the Presidency can go from year to year, no matter who the Bureau members are, what political options, spend like the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and spend as the SIP we said should fight crime, terrorism, drugs, prostitution, anything they don't give us in Europe. Therefore, there will be no condition for us if you get a good haircut and ironing out members of the Presidency and visiting a few countries, you will become members of the EU, but how many SIPs and institutions determine their part of the job. Second of all, you have an audit office here. We've long since seemed to understand this formality, not the important thing. How is it possible to save where the warnings are that they shouldn't be saved? The SIP will push 300 million marks into this budget if it works. If it doesn't work, it will work the way it is. Whoever's party president and sits where, he's going to ask for 5, 9, 15, 100% increase. I, I know it's been hard to talk and get to a different budget, but it's almost certain that for a budget like this, I won't vote in front of the public. This is the budget of the damaged positions. I think it could have been different. I think this year, the IMF and the World Bank won't mind if we say 3 million is the Presidency. Let them fit in. Well, I can't figure it out if someone's a member of the Bureau that needs three offices. I can't figure out if there's a foreign minister sitting in those offices, they're party offices. Well, those parties are powerful, so they can pay the rent. The presidency doesn't need to provide that. So is it possible that the MP needs an office in Banja Luka? I'm telling you the truth. Is that supposed to be financed by the BiH state? Is it those who advocate BiH's integrity that they want to support this budget? I won't. And I am aware and I want to say publicly that the Serbian member of the presidency does not need three cabinets. God Bog he's working in this one too. And the others. And please be nice. So, I'm, I can't vote for this budget in front of the public even though the Presidency is fine writing to us how good it would be, but we support it by the Council of Ministers to examine the wage structure, etc. The salaries here are 33 gentlemen the smallest item. That's what the public needs to know. And until we find conditions for functioning, therefore more appropriate conditions, I agree to reduce, these ministries to reduce, reduce the presidency and put on and increase the SIP and increase this audit office. If that's not there, I'm sorry I won't support it. I don't want to talk about other items in the budget, because it's getting funny, because every year I voted against the budget and against budget rebalances. But to convince me, that three men with their crew spend just as much as two homes of the parliamentary assembly, and to spend just as much as the SIP with 1,000 people, hello, thousands of people. Now there's 250 of them. It's a disaster. Thank you very much. Don't be angry, but you have parties to say you should...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11853	I thank Mr. Spire. Have you heard from Mr. Avdić? Then please engage early. You have the word now, and then Mr. Nikola Kragulj, did you answer the word? Then it was a mistake. I've got you here. I've got you. I've got you. Then Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11854	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Dr. Špirić, usually took a large part of my presentation and I cannot disagree in many dimensions of this discussion. I will only argue with some other examples, that we do not respect or simply this document is totally contrary to the position of this parliament or the House of Representatives and the assessment that in BiH is a dramatic economic and social state. If we graded it, and we did, and our commission rated it that way. In this sense, it is certain that this document was not made in accordance with such assessments by the BiH House of Representatives and Parliament as a whole. What do I mean? In objective terms, we should agree and say that personal incomes in BiH and in BH institutions cannot grow more than 25%. The illustrations work. Who really allows themselves the freedom to grow personal incomes 40, 60, and more percent. Consistent with the strength and influence objectively, according to counterpart Špirić, the impact of individual ministries. Whether the Council of Ministers acted on the principle of compromise and the wishes of individual ministries or would go simply through the rational business of BH institutions and what awaits us in the current 2004 year. So, I can't really do this, I don't think this document was done in a manner consistent with rationality and I repeat once again the dramatic, social and economic situation in BiH. The illustration works, the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, had a fall in BiH's foreign direct investment in 2003, this year we have an increase in personal income in the same agency, by how much? 64%. The illustrations work, an Investment Conference instead of bringing funds to BiH in Mostar cost us half a million marks, 500 thousand marks. Well, guys, I think if we could just accept these numbers that are right in front of us. Here I am just reading and looking at it simply in that sense. I'm not surprised it's the Constitutional Court of Justice, so it's just the High Prosecutor's Council, etc. have the need to increase and dimension their budgets, simply in the current 2004 year, but objective Presidency which continues to behave irrationally, the Bureau that buys, obtains new Audi cars, etc. He is objectively not considering the rationality of BiH's 34 operations, and this must be made quite clear to the president. With all due respect, simply this institute, simply rules in BiH. I wonder really, I mention two items, so, uh, I suggest. One item is the increase in personal incomes, as this Pedestrian House should have one relation to the economic situation in BiH and simply liked it or didn't like it, to say how much this personal income in BiH can grow in BH institutions in line with the dramatic and economic-social situation in BiH. And with this wave of strikes coming up, social unrest, etc. That's one thing. And secondly, these special purpose programs are really worrying. That's 500,000, 250 thousand marks, etc. For the sake of illustrations, I really wonder why the Directorate for European Integration, which deals with whether, through European integration, needs special purposes in the amount of 250,000 marks only for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. What's that for? So that's where the Directorate was founded to deal with European integration, which is why a special item(?) Stabilisation and Association Program. Really, so I don't understand some of the things that I do, when a man makes sense, he just can't take it for granted. So it doesn't take much of this one to elaborate. These numbers talk a lot. Imequities between the ministries. Let's say the Ministry of Civil Affairs, then the Ministry of Communications and, uh, traffic and communication, so the Ministry of Justice, etc. understanding simply clearly, knowing the fact that the ministries are expanding, increasing the number of people who receive and everything else, etc. But objectively, we have such imbalances that they just stick their eyes out. So I'm really wondering how this, the Agency for Foreign Investment Promotion, where we have a drop in investment, will justify this funding and this search and plus another 500,000 marks for the Mostar Investment Conference. And finally, I was asked on behalf of the National Commission for Co-operation with UNESCO, she's not here in Chapter II. I simply propose that under heading 42, this Commission for Co-operation with UNESCO be inserted and that it is simply dimensional in the Ministry of Finance with those opportunities given in the Foreign Ministry request. So, with the conclusion that this document is inaccessibly late to the conclusion that the House of Representatives has repeatedly insisted, initiated as soon as possible, and we responded in a timely manner in November 2003, objectively we have a situation to get a document which was already simply deplaced on April 2004 and, on the other hand, respecting the deep Mrs. Treasury Minister of Finance of the Council of Ministers. She made her remarks quite clear to one of her remarks, I would say to the Council of Ministers unconsciously, not I am not criticising or simply wanting to comment on anything else, but she says – so the House of Representatives will record it as it has always done so far and it will go away as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11855	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Novaković has the word. Let Mr. Munib Jusufović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11856	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members, this seems to me to be the fourth budget I have to adopt and I don't think anything has happened new to these three. Maybe the only new thing we're discussing right now is in two readings and it seems to me that we've previously adopted, some of them adopted by article 105 of the Malta. So there's no budget for that, but we adopted it without any objections, because we didn't even have the opportunity to make any remarks. 35 And these discussions today show that this is the legacy of previous ways of bringing budgets because with the full respect of my colleagues, I haven’t found these amendments here what they’re talking about. So I get the impression that we're running a political story here, for a political story, not a serious story with the proposed amendments that need to change these figures here and these items here. I wish we had these amendments, or the commission had them, and she refused, and they were repeated today, and then we plead today. I don't see what we're going to say except about the draft budget that we got in the text that we got from the committee with the adopted amendments that were on the commission. All of this, I say, with all due respect to the views of my colleagues, I don't see the possibility of changing this right now. If there is, I'd beg them to say how. I wouldn't really be going into some discussions here right now, although I expected some people to say they wouldn't vote for this budget because it's average per salary worker at the Regulatory Agency for Communications 38 000 and 439 and at the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments 19000 and 800 per this proposal or at the Naconal Monuments Agency 25,000 and 708. That's the agency I've been asking questions about the way national monuments are declared. So I thought that's the reason, to say if it's so much of a structure in the Communications Regulatory Agency that they need double the salary of the Foreign Investment Agency, if we expect this agency to promote, the Foreign Investment Agency is promoting here investing money from outside. Of course, well, we know why it's here, and of course we know as well that we haven't been able to change it yet, nor have we had any serious attempts at change. He was gentlemen, before this member of the Bureau and these members of the Bureau and Mr Živko Radišić, a member of the presidency. Some colleagues who discussed the budget with many at the time did not discuss it this way. So, I'd like to ask you to be principled in your presentations. We've known each other long enough, so we can look ourselves in the eye here and we can always discuss ourselves in the same way and in the same way, at least we who have been here mean together for a long time. Of course, I do not dispute that the Presidency is being too scattered with money and that logically, it is absolutely illogical that the Presidency, that it is foreseen that the Presidency is as much as for both homes of the Parliamentary Skopje. Did we find the strength to fight to make our place there different? We would have been, if we had proposed amendments and voted today for these amendments at the cost of conflict with both the IMF and the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers. Either we didn't have the strength to do it, or we didn't have the will or we just didn't pay attention to it enough. I hope that the next time we adopt this document, we will adopt it in such a way that we will raise the dignity of this House and the House of Nations by changing the figures here relating to individual institutions in this budget. For these reasons and the fact that we have not had an amendment, so the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, will therefore support Budget in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11857	I thank Mr. Novaković. The replica was answered by Mr Špirić, and then Mr Jusufović. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11858	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues who are discussing after me have confirmed to me that this is an act on acquired positions. They say nothing's changed. That's what I was talking about. I've voted against the Budget since I was in this Parliamentary Assembly, and I was saying that it doesn't look like a budget. So nothing's changed. And I have to tell you that the number of ministries in the government, and we also call it the Council of Ministers for Political Reasons, has increased by 5, and yet nothing has changed. And everyone agrees that the presidency is a lot to spend. So let's watch how many parliamentary delegations leave this House each year from both homes. And the Bureau spends like Parliament, buys cars, etc. But if we're aware of the need to change, there are ways of doing business as well as in other laws. Extending the amendment phase if you'll support it. Here I agree with you. I'll make the amendments. Will you back me up? And I'm looking for an extension of the amendment phase, because if it could've been seven months without budget, we could've made one radical step on the budget items. I didn't propose amendments, because I think it's useless if there's a majority who's going to vote this, but I think this is a punishment for taxpayers. And if you want, the budget is a legal and political document, so we'll turn to other citizens than the budget. What would you like? To adopt the budget, to keep the opposition quiet. Like that doesn't have to be politicized. It's taxpayers' money. They need to know. So just remember the noise the Presidency has raised to raise wages in Parliament. This is a picture. That he spends as much as two homes, that he spends as a SIP who's supposed to have a thousand employees this year, and that's not the point for the supplemental and amendment phase. And there's nothing the IMF and the World Bank, nothing against us saying it can't. And he doesn't mind if we say I can't have three offices and he doesn't mind if we tell the MIP, gentlemen, not extending the DKP network to send party colleagues there, but a reduction until this country gets there. So let's say, have we done an analysis of what are the most important destinations for Bosnia and Herzegovina, without which Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, can't, but there is a destination where aunts, cousins, first fighters, parties that promote don't know what. Now, that's an additional amendment phase for me. If there's a mood, I'm ready. If there's no okay. You're voting. I don't mind. We just need to take a look at the face of the public. The budget is being adopted in normal countries in November and December of the current year and severe political stories are being conducted, based on arguments. I speak on the basis of arguments. If there is therefore a political will, then, we can, since we have shortened the procedure, give additional amendments and warn, and we have also said colleague Martin, the chairman said and I agree that Parliament must be the center of events, political events, taking the fate of this country into our hands. If we're ready. If we haven't yet, we're going to release this budget. But I'm saying I won't vote for a budget like this. I have a reason. When someone explains to me why the MIP office in Banja Luka is being paid, that it's financing the PDP and why it's being paid in Lukavica and Banja Luka that it's financing the SDS, I'll say okay. They want Bosniaks, they want to wrestling, here you go. But then don't blame me if I'm not for the state. Please, we need to look ourselves in the eye. For which it compromises me, it allows. What are concessions? So that the counselor wouldn't come from Banja Luka, he'd sit in Banja Luka and have a fax and contact the secretary who was gossiping about who. That's what we pay for. It's sad what I'm saying. But please check it out, so tell me if I'm lying to Nikola Špirić. I'm lying, they don't have two offices, they don't have one. Thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11859	I thank Mr. Špirić. I beg those who report for the replica, I did not want to interrupt Mr Špirić, he was at the border for 3 minutes to stick to it. Is it a replica, Mr. Novaković? Replica, then Mr. Jusufović. Please respect. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11860	I must say that I highly appreciate Mr. Špirić's efforts to get SIP's place in the system, and probably Mr. Špirić would remember when we were working on adopting that law that we didn't really have such ideas at the time, but of course the time did it, because we now have something completely different and I want to say that I appreciate it before, with a lot of respect for the man who is now at the head of the SIP, but it seems to me that we are having a little discussion here by some other principles and criteria. Unfortunately, we shouldn't have done that. Look, just because Mr. Nović, who I really appreciate as a man, is right away at the head of this institution, is an effort to activate the SIP. I believe it wouldn't be if someone from the SDS were at the head of that institution, I don't believe it, but I'm convinced it wouldn't be. What I also want here to absolutely refuse is the story of the Bureau members' offices as SDS offices. I was in the Bureau's offices when Mr. Radišić was a member of the presidency. I didn't find anyone in the SDS back then. I gotta be honest, there weren't many of them from the Socialists either, some of them. So, that story really doesn't stand and it wouldn't be right unless this wasn't an invitation to the High Representative to stop funding the presidency. I don't think that would be a bad idea, given that he's one of the members of the SDS presidency and one of the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11861	Mr. Špirić, I'm begging you, here's the real deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11862	So please, so you see, I'm sorry to be coming in here, running away from the essence. No one mentioned the director here. But as long as they're mentioned, I'm obliged to say it's about professionals. We chose them. This Parliament chose them. And so Sredoje Nović is therefore a professional and should not be increased because of Sredoje Nović, but because of SIP. But I am obliged to say that he is a professional and that we should, not only him, but also colleagues who work in the SIP and Bošnjak and Hrvat, and he is not a Srbin and is not the SDS head of the audit office, so I said that this is a serious institution and that it should not be pushed, but that they should be strengthened by a number of others. I'm just the one who listed the neural points to be changed. And it is true that when Živko Radišić was sitting, he will not be silently angry because they were sitting at the time of the Socialists, because I went to one time and another. They're party offices, and they need to break up with what they're doing. It doesn't matter which party. And I wasn't talking to the SDS, but you see whatever a man's talking about, people are unfortunately finding themselves. But we here have to change therefore inherited bad practice in the interests of citizens and taxpayers, and that's why I'm sorry. You shouldn't bid names here, especially with names I really respect and appreciate. I must publicly say that I respect what the SIP 38 did and what it wants to do. And I think that's what this country needs, the fight against crime, terrorism, corruption, and none of us are worried that we didn't give the SIP the authority that tomorrow when I go to the border, I'm not asked if it's from your country, Mr. Sikirica. He was still a Srbin, a Hrvat or a Bošnjak. They cross the border the same way. Now, when we put that first, then we'll have a good budget and a good SIP and we won't mind what kind of party it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11863	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Jusufović. Here you go. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11864	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have just been following these previous discussions, and that was why I came forward, part of maybe my dilemma or partial response I received from my colleague, Novaković, who set up the dilemma, so in part, my colleague Špirić answered, but I would like to say that I support most of the three predecessors both Huskić and fellow Špirić and Mr Avdić in a section relating to the budget to one I would say a rather unceptive way of putting this budget together. It's to be seen. I'll finish the next one. Why do some of the institutions you have listed here as many as you want, no one mentions or thinks, here we have an increase, we have an increase in the Constitutional Court, we have an increase in the Office of Audit, we have etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11865	Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11866	Parliament no, Mr. Džaferović, that was your interpretation all the time, and we never agreed there, and you're looking for a word like I'm asking for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11867	After I just, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11868	However, some institutions seem to wonder how to say, they are too visible. It's obvious that individuals had an impact like the Presidency. I remember the debate, you remember your colleague, Džaferović, we only told a different story before, because my colleague Belkić was in the presidency at the time. He wasn't a member of the SDA, we were in the last term, and so were you and me. The presidency was just criticised for being extremely high cost of the presidency. Well, that's right. Keep looking. A fellow Špirić comes out, me too, and you should believe these statements by Mr Špirić. So I believe a lot more than I do, something I don't trust with my colleague, Novaković, and you'll understand why. It is true that Mr Špirić is the most competent for all the political options in Republika Srpska and is extremely aware of who is doing what in each office. Therefore, there is no need to doubt that. Thus, while in the presidency, Radisic, 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11869	Please, you can answer the word. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11870	Okay, a little bit of relaxation like this, but actually, how to get out of this right now is not clear to me. I would support certain parts, however, one must understand the truth that we have a budget delay. The adoption. That the reasons were somewhere outside of us, because the Federation's budget was not adopted, etc. Not to repeat, he was also late to adopt an objective budget, i.e. the Budgetation Act. How, in what way, does it exist, now you help that you're sitting there, you're wise heads for the Rules of Procedure, how we can connect that to adopt the budget. I am absolutely to adopt the budget, and possibly to iron out some of these things. And this agency that my colleague Huskić was talking about. Well, you remember every budget adoption this agency is a pain in the eyes. Why don't you say so? Where and who can explain that the average there is 3 thousand and something, and here in all ministries and other 1.400,00, 1.600,00, etc. Who are we afraid to say? Because he formed the High Representative, frozen wages. None of us should have asked how many cleaners there were. Don't, I mean really, what way there is to put something back, at least some of this into some of the colossals. Give us a hand. Here I am now not sure if yes, I know you should vote for the budget. This has offered me some things again, whether to be held back now, whether or not. It's simple, and I don't want him to exactly seal the budget, because the budget is mostly by the ministry this time. He's been done, and as far as that goes, I don't have that remark. But how do we get out on this, we won't, but it can be redistributed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11871	I thank Mr. Jusufović. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11872	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something in the introduction about one approach to making the budget, given that it is adopted by a special procedure, i.e. the law, and that therefore it is necessary to take care of it and to reach the final stage when it comes to Parliament. I would like the Council of Ministers and the Ministry to accept the suggestion that it would be good for the Committee of the Finance and Budget Committee to be involved at the very beginning of the work, and thus assist in drawing up the budget, not to come to the final stage when it is only necessary to give an opinion to the House of Representatives about what someone has done outside of this Parliament, and that means knowingly leaving a few percent of which they will settle something in the commission, so to speak, and this game continues from year to year. I think there's a problem here, and it should also show why these deadlines break every year when exactly, when we have defined those deadlines with the Rules of Procedure and they are known to have to be made. Last year they were supposed to be brought in on November 15th. The role of the IMF should also be considered from the perspective of domestic institutions in terms of a better coordination, not that all the IMF practically brings us a framework, while at the same time having little space for domestic institutions to give or express what is necessary and necessary in the budget itself. This attitude towards the IMF in another way has created such a position in the Council of Ministers that they do not work very hard, that they do not make an analysis and that we have a simple budget, and that we do not have an analysis of what is really needed and with these political wishes of our leaders in the executive government we get this structure about what Professor Špirić was already talking about. Therefore, this one serious and 40 responsible approach is certainly missing and it should in the future, if we are to be serious people in this House, go back to those procedural and principled things that need to be done by domestic institutions and not work. I really need to say that last time I was in a previous meeting and when we had a specific situation discussing the budget when Mr. Beriz Belkić was on that committee, and it was, it was certain that in a few days he would literally move into the presidency, he was critical and only critical of reducing whether or not it was about 300 thousand marks, he narrowed down practical work in the presidency... but he showed a real dimension in the sense that it was necessary to do so. I haven't seen such a serious approach so critical and only critical in this House for a long time. I don't have a problem with it, and maybe in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is what you've been talking about through the remarks, and everyone's kind of noting something. And it's not a problem what Professor Špirić suggested. It is a problem. But it's more of a problem if we leaders have political authority. And they want to keep political domination through financial expressions and it doesn't matter that they're counselors or other people. I want to be realistic in the Presidency, with the minister, advisers in Parliament, etc. are something that is a matter of choice and sharing the fate of those people who, after a certain period of term of office, go away, and these people. And I can understand that. But the problem is how much executive authority with its leaders and us here who are in Parliament is blocking us in fact in the adoption of some important things in principle and in this budget, because we are thus practically becoming the hostages of a shadow executive policy and we are thus covering the wishes of leaders from the executive government who are usually party presidents. Has anyone made such an analysis of their wishes, needs, initiatives that you have unwittingly accepted in this House, and that no one has confirmed or rejected whether it was a good or bad solution. And therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Party Club and independent candidates Mr. Blagojević and Professor Kunić, I would like to propose a constructive solution to be a constructive opposition, which is to accept the budget means in this proposal, but all the remarks that have been made. In particular, Professor Špirić expressed this well, being removed in part of the budget rebalancing on the basis of an analysis of real needs. Because we have passed the proper laws in this House, we have brought new institutions that represent reform. It's perfectly normal for these institutions to function. Some even function with a million, two as a start and a starting position, which I think is not good, is not enough for them, and therefore in this analysis we could remove the budget rebalancing and thus remove these remarks that we have shown and where each individual MP agrees intimately with the practical discussion of Dr Špirić and not to problem it, but to accept, but to remove all these negative things that we have indicated in the next phase. That would be our club's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11873	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mrs. Milićević. Please, we have a cell phone conclusion and don't. Let's stick to him and respect him. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to get the applications I got. Mrs. Milićević, let Mrs. Palavrić be prepared, then Mr. Milorad Živković, then Mr. Belkić, then Kunić, then Muhamed Moranjkić. That's the order. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11874	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, first of all I want to be a member of the SDS Club to express great disappointment when Mr. Špirić started talking about the club rooms, I thought of myself like that, and here we are with joy. We've been five MPs for a year and a half in this House, we don't have a club room in this assembly, so then I realized, we don't have them at our disposal, so then I realized that he's probably counting right now that we have to gather somewhere, sit down, but we don't have a spare club, and we don't even sit in the halls. We're using the board rooms where our colleague is president and that's about 7-8 squares. And that's where we sit. So I'm going to ask you this opportunity to work a little bit on that within the framework given to provide clubs with a way to function. Especially Mr. Špirić, since he takes care of it all. Now I want to say, as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, I've been on this committee for a year and a half and here mostly, so we said the budget and everything goes within the limits of the given and possible. And last year we had a budget like this and we had it this year. However, the story that is happening in this House is 90% identical. Only today do we miss a few actors who regularly participate in this story. All last year's story repainted to this year. The new opposition gentlemen who said that according to your job description, you were attacking the budget and the Council of Ministers did not say this year. You haven't given any new initiative. Our neighbor sat down three times, we didn't get any amendments from you. Your representatives sit on the committee, sit at the head of the commission, and let them kill any of it. I'm aware this budget has fallinkes. He's the only way he can be. And I ask you to keep all the remarks and everything else on the next two points of the agenda when we have the Audit Office we have a report and we see how it's done, where we're making a problem and how we spend money, do we respect the laws, apply them? To preserve the story and give concrete suggestions on how to better respond to budget users and how to spend this people's money more responsibly. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11875	Thank you, Mrs. Milićiveć. The word is Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11876	Thank you very much. I will express my disappointment and dissatisfaction with one other fact, by the fact that today is April 14th and that we only have today's budget and that we have a situation similar to last year. I'm not optimistic that today would promise me that we'd soon have a rebalancing, because last year we had a promise that in two months there would be a rebalancing, so he was only in the fall. I accept that this budget is possible to some extent, however, I must also say that some things are illogical to me. I have tried to explain to myself that so far I do not have the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the Federation has not adopted its budget until the other day. But then the circle turns around again and we come up with a situation that both the Federation and Republika Srpska and Brcko District will know how much of the state needs the funds if it doesn't already have some kind of draft budget. So, I would like to get an answer from the minister on this issue – was it possible to offer Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget before entities adopt their budgets and secondly, along with a series of illogicalities, I really have no right to talk about all the illogicalities, because like many of my predecessors, I haven't submitted amendments, but I ask myself to explain myself, because I asked it 100 times over the 42 last year when I asked the parliamentary question and asked how many salaries and how many users budget spending primarily, paying attention to the CRA. So in a situation where we have a requirement from a feasibility study to equip the Directorate for European Integrations with Staff, Equipment, Veterinary Office, we do not have an increase in funds in this situation, but 0.2%, 0.22% compared to last year when it comes to the Directorate for European Integration, and the CRA remains intact. I'm just asking the answer to these two questions. It's clear to me that we're in a situation where we can't choose, and I'm really going to vote for the budget just because this country has to have a budget, not because I think the proposal is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11877	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Živković has the word. Let Mr. Belkić prepare, then Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11878	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that we are not allowed today to use amendments that are not actually submitted, I am talking about the items themselves, I would speak in principle, given that a proposal has been adopted today in the first reading. Namely, in the Constitution, Article 8. The Constitution, every year the Parliamentary Assembly will adopt the Budget for cost-covering, etc., the fact that this Parliamentary Assembly adopts Budget, on a proposal from the Presidency. I think it was fundamentally the right of the psredsjedništvo to be a proposing, but also of this Assembly to see this Proposer in this room and to explain the items in the budget, to explain the policy, because the budget is not only a mere numbering but also a policy. And it is time for the PSC to come before this Parliament once, because as far as we have been in this House for more than a year, our Presidency has acted as a Milošević who has never entered Parliament. I think it must be there to defend these views, not to hide behind the Council of Ministers, with all due respect to the Minister and our commission. On the other hand, after this, we will have a agenda item concerning the Budget Implementation Act, which is said in Article 108 of our Rules of Procedure that the BiH Presidency will submit a report on the implementation of the budget. He'll certainly come to us and we'll get it in writing again and he won't show up here. It's a matter of principle, and until one of the members of the Bureau shows up here and even explains the motives, so a budget like this, I won't vote for that budget. One small question, probably the secretary here will address us after this. Just to tell us if the budget has put in the funds for all means 16 conditions, 24 institutions that we have to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11879	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mr. Belkić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11880	Thank you very much. I, of course, am a member of the Finance Commission and will remain on the line of our report, which is to support what we unanimously set out in the Commission's session. However, I am offered an argument and I feel the need to say a few words. But before that, I ask you, don't mind me misusing the time I've taken, because I have abstained throughout this entire session to say the next one on behalf of the club and on my own behalf. So, the BiH Party is expressing a protest for the following reasons. Which does not respect the arrangements of the extended college and will no longer bind us to number one. Number two, I'm expressing a protest that doesn't respect parliamentary time, but uses it... as far as anyone's head is concerned. And thirdly, we won't let anyone put up any more false dilemmas, asking us to plead acquittal and look something into our eyes, etc. It's about something that I didn't want to abuse this, the mood of the chairman, and that I would contribute to that region that lasted over an hour, when setting the agenda. So, I want to comment, maybe the promoters will say it later, but I'm not sure, so I want to say it as a member of the Finance Commission. Why is he late in the budget and he'll be late while the state is hostage to the entity? You know that very well. So, until all the entity budgets were passed, the sources of funding of the BiH state were completely unclear and insecure. You are aware that the Federation has completed the procedure 7-8-10 days ago. That's one thing. This Parliament, or the relationship between political forces, was not the kind of nature to take advantage of the constitutional possibility and to shake off this addiction. To bring in another way of original funding that the Constitution has made possible. It was up to us, to the relationship of strength. I sincerely hope that speeding up the establishment of the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. the introduction of an additional value tax, the state will be in a position to have autonomous income and will be able to meet the usual deadlines in the world to bring its budget in the current year. That's my point of view and that's why I can't put serious remarks on anyone who's in the Council of Ministers who's late. Because he's late because the state is a hostage of financing by entities. It is true, I agree with Mr Špirić, that there was no power and avoided automation and found state. So, who won what position and that's the logic of the administration and it's very difficult once a damaged position in funding to take away, because a thousand reasons this one, people say it's a defense. That's why we need to be aware that we need to get into the inventory and the interrogation, which is why some positions are damaged, and that's why it's good, someone said here, I think this guy said that I don't know who, it doesn't matter. They have amendments, brother, and give people this amendment committee has been considering, having only 2-3 amendments and she's been considering it, some of them adopted. So here's a chance to do it here. When it comes to salaries, we simply couldn't get the data that these salaries were, because this approach, the total amount for gross wages, divided by the number of employees, etc. I'm not sure it gives a valid score on the net salary. I'm not sure, so it would be a good idea for the promoter to do a little, or a working pardon, that little bit of this, to explain what this is about. 44 I ask you to take another look at these recommendations from the Finance and Budget Commission, which we have tried this time through which we wanted to make an active relationship with this one, so see what we recommend that, with the adoption of these two documents today, it may satisfy some of the remarks that have been made here. Here's how much and I'm sorry if I made it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11881	I thank Mr. Belikić. The word is Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11882	Dear gentlemen, I do not think it is necessary to potentiate the importance of the budget or the debate on the budget. This is one of the most important issues, one of Parliament's most important decisions during the year. Of course I respect and appreciate the work of a commission that has put forth a lot of effort to come up with some solutions. However, I must warn that the preparation of the decision is the most important part in the decision-making phase. And in that direction, I think more effort must be made. The problem must be seen as a whole, it must be seen, issues that have been discussed in this House that have been warned during previous discussions, and there have been many. I think that neither the commissions nor the bodies involved in the budget preparation process have sufficiently looked at the problem as I have already pointed out. I would not agree with Mr. Belkić that the Budget of BiH depends too much on entity budgets. As far as I know, entities are very zealously fulfilling their obligations. And that's what needs to be determined. Therefore, there was no dysfunction in my view not to bring the Budget of BiH, regardless of the problems in the Federation that existed. I also believe that the Institute of Budgets must not be the subject of party confrontations, and it seems to me that a little bit becomes. To become the subject of party confrontations. It's just a little bit of a look at the structure so you can really see that Mr. Špirić is right. There's too much resources for the presidency. That'll be the eyes. It's an abnormal situation, given the state we're in. I think it's facts and we just can't get over it today, if we're serious people. Secondly, if Mr Fejzić had suggested, I think we need to see this thing today, discuss it, and he has a concrete proposal and make a decision about it. I will not vote either unless this proposal is voted upon, I apologize to Huskić. So these are important questions. Well, I've heard here the budget finding is the way it's possible. It's possible you know how you make it, it's like that. So he's given how it is, he's ideal. It's perfectly nothing. There's no ideal concept anywhere. Anything can be better than it was given. Of course, I appreciate that there is too much responsibility here at the Council of Ministers, too much responsibility at the Council of Ministers. It's an executive body. A government that rules an operational policy, which has basically all the instruments in its hands when it comes to the budget. Salary, pay question, and I consider it potent here from the very beginning, here's Mr. Belkić speaking. From the very beginning, I see the problem of salary in BiH institutions. We have been in the focus of Parliament, Parliamentarians and I know that many categories and populations in some 45 institutions have higher salaries than parliamentarians. No Niko mentions them. Well, it's our duty to say who it is who has bigger wages. Let's tell that to the people. And there are a lot of categories and institutions where wages are higher. Here, we heard today one institution that has abnormal salaries and we all know that. In his own time, this Parliament has concluded that it will obtain, or that it will require the Council of Ministers to submit a report on salaries. A check-up of salaries in these institutions BH. We never got that. Why don't I know? I really think that someone should follow Parliament's decisions, of course to insist that they be implemented. This decision has never been made. It seems to me that it was proposed and that it was accepted. Of course Špirić pointed to some more problems with double cabinets. Well, it is the duty of this House to examine where double cabinets exist. Please don't play games, these are the important facts Mr. Špirić said. Let's see if Mr. Špirić is right. We can't get over it. We can't be in this situation where we have double cabinets, double secretaries, double not to speak equipment, advisors, etc. Let's see. This Parliament must keep it under its control, unless the Council of Ministers has already done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11883	I thank Mr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Moranjkić. Let him prepare himself
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11884	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow members and deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I will try for a moment. At the beginning, I give all the criticisms to the proposing of this budget because in my heart I do not accept intermediaries and couriers to bring this budget to this House with all the real respect and respect for those who have brought it. The first thing I want to point out is that the budget is not acceptablely late. We of the promoters as the only relevant, we have not found out, I do not accept that here fellow MPs give an explanation to us why this budget is half a year late. Secondly, we all know that this is the only country on the globe that doesn't have its own budget resources and that it lives off the donations and sadness of what we call entities, districts, etc. And normally, in these donations as usual in this country, that those who are closer have a better position, better gunnery, better trenches, that they have received these donations and that they have allocated these funds as they have deployed. It's obvious if you take a little digitron, and you don't have to look over these ten pages, you can see that someone in this budget is so tight that they can't breathe, and someone's making a difference as if it were an extremely big, strong and powerful budget of a country rather than the way it is. What's he saying? It tells us that, neither we nor we, have paid enough attention to finally the way we should, and it is known that we should talk in the budget, to say – the position of the name and last name, that and it is overbooked, over-bloated, etc. and that it is objective to remove and transfer from that position here and here. What do I want to say next? I criticise all of us MPs, that we didn't do the right thing, and that we sat down and saw it and acted in amendment. Since I see that this budget is being born or coming to the surface of the opinion that today, I may not be able to pass for 46 to propose to this Parliament to extend the amendment phase for another 7 to 10 days, that what has been heard today, as expressed in certain political speeches and criticism, is being translated into formal legislation, in the form of amendments, and that exactly who, what and how should be covered, or in other words, is to be revealed where too much has been added. I think it's the right way and I'm telling this Parliament this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11885	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. The word has Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11886	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I want in some way to give a soprino to this overall debate, concerning the Budget of BiH, for this year and for the first time, so what I also want to share with other speakers is the fact that we are late this year with a budget relative to the budget that was adopted last year at the end of 2002. I would remind you, therefore, that our first virtually one of the first commitments, when calling on this one, during the meeting of this meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, was the Budget for 2003, because we did it at the end of 2002. I, on my part, express my regret, which is when it comes to 2004, we practically went back to that old practice and here's to adopt the budget after 31 March and everything that happens after 31 March, when it comes to budgeting is problematic and the rest has been kind of confirmed by the Minister herself in her opening statement today at the opening of this agenda point. I think that undercut colleagues, we should first of all be real people and talk about this matter primarily in the language of numbers, so by language of digits and try to reduce the politicisation that is unfortunately with us here in Parliament, present in almost every matter, to as little measure as possible. The first thing I want to tell you is that the budget for this year was programmed when it comes to spending BiH state institutions practically at the level last year. This year is about spending 211 million 968 thousand 875 KM, and by budget rebalance 2003, the 2003 budget for the BiH institutions totalled 211 million 939 thousand 624 KM. The difference is 29 000 251 KM in favour of the BiH institutions' budget projection this year, so more. This should add another 268m international commitments to BiH and then get a budget of approximately 480m KM and some million KM last year, which amounted to 500 hundred 23m in the original form as it was adopted. So this is the first thing we need to know, and we are the ones who have adopted the 2003 budget, and many of us who are here have participated in the debates in this Parliament, have adopted the budget of this country and for 2002, 2001 and 2000. The second thing I want to talk about is the fact that there are some colleagues here and so to conclude about this first part of my discussion, so today is the time to adopt the budget of the institutions. I don't think we have the space to delay a statement about the budget itself. I respect the remarks that my colleagues made, regarding certain items and particularly some remarks that I will later look back on in my discussion, but I also want to say that all my colleagues, so here I have the opportunity, have plenty of time to make amendments. The amendments have not been invested so far and 47 that fact also tells me something, regardless of the right of colleagues to say that the amendment phase can be extended, that we have extended it etc. I therefore believe that the time for adoption of the Budget of BiH has expired and that today is the time for us to approach the very act of declaring the Budget. As for certain budget users mentioned here, also for the public, I want to say that if we are talking about the BiH Presidency, last year the Presidency was available according to the budget we voted unanimously for here, 6 million 419 000 022 KM and I apologize to the BiH Presidency 5 million 222 thousand KM and that this year the projection is 5 million 715 thousand marks or 495 so about half a million marks or 500 thousand KM more marks. But it should be fair and then say, of course that that amount includes expenditure, capital expenditure relating to the financing of liaison officers' offices in The Hague, and only on that item, is 1 million 563 thousand KM. So you don't have to say that the Presidency of the State is spending all this money, but that there's this capital expenditure and that there's a fact to be said here. At the same time, it is also true that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly last year had approved 6 million 439 thousand 022 KM, and that this year it was approved or projected 6 million 766 thousand KM or 326 thousand 978 KM more, compared to last year. The foreign ministry had 38 million 199 thousand last year. This year 38 million 360 thousand, so only 160,000 marks are expected to increase. The Communications Regulatory Agency, which we voted for, is also everyone here, in October 2003 and December 2002, had 4 million and 470,000 last year, and this year it's less, 4 million 379 thousand. No matter how much I agree with my colleague that we need to review the salary level of that agency, but according to this budget projection, it's less for this year than what we approved last year. I've cited these few examples here, only the truth works. So, reality works, that I assume the public that we are all here in Parliament who have these documents we have read it and that we know it, but that's why I brought these facts out, so that we all know the real state of things. On the other hand, I can't help but say publicly that I support those colleagues who say BiH institutions can't have double spaces, I can't have double offices and I fully support my colleagues who speak in that direction and contribute to finally ending the practice once. So, first of all, I think of the BiH presidency, having all that I've said, for me, at this point, the only possible conclusion is the following. So, let us approach the vote on the budget, vote the budget for this year and perhaps accept the proposal Mr Gligorić made in his discussion. I think it's a real proposal, a good proposal to put in charge of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to monitor the implementation of the budget on the basis of the discussions that we had here and that we as parliamentarians, when there is a budget rebalancing, play the right role we should play, and that is to ask the Presidency in time for data on the costs related to the Bureau's offices, including other institutions, 48 Councils of Ministers, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. And then here to see what the costs are, to react on time to the amendments and to cut those costs out of the total budget costs. I think this is the only possible approach to get us out of this situation today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11887	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word has Mrs. Leho, let Mr. Mišić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11888	The chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to begin by thanking Minister Marić and her associates for this draft budget, which has been forwarded, means in the form of a draft to the Presidency and in the form of a proposal from the Presidency towards us. Given that you had more restrictive factors when making this budget, I would like to point out in particular the entity budgets that must of course be adopted before you.../microphony/ put into the procedure this budget for BiH, because entity budgets are full of /microphony/... of your budget. Second, you had new institutions. As for the new institutions, that's our fault here, too, because we were late to pass certain laws on the establishment of institutions, if it were earlier, you could probably do it in October and November. Third. Different salaries in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget users and that puts you at a disadvantage, related to this budget, of course you have no legal basis to intervene with anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11889	I'd like to ask the representatives for collegiation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11890	any user to say they need to be reduced or increased. Therefore, this proposal by the Presidency is again required by the Council of Ministers to prepare the draft law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and the Law on Salaries and other fees from budgetary users at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Finance and Budget Commission has supported and set a deadline of 30.9 that this will have to be adopted here at Parliament, which will automatically confiscate the funds for those foreseen in this budget. As an example, CRA and other users were taken. So we here MPs must create you in the Treasury Department a legal basis for the intervention and planning of the funds for the salaries. The fourth factor is your relationship with international financial organisations. It is an illusion to think that our Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Treasury and the Council of Ministers, and this Parliament can do some wonders now in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. We are, of course, under the constant mortuary of these institutions, because the country is in the establishment of a financial system, a fiscal 49 system, economic reforms, and others, which means we have controlled budgets. So no one at the Treasury can do anything different. The special fifth factor limiting you was the incomplete ministry. I'm under way that a huge financial operation has moved on to the Ministry of Finance. It's not complete. It's not informational. So these are objective reasons why I congratulate you on what you have done and what is not good for others to move on to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11891	I thank Mrs Fatima Leho. Mr. Mišić has the word. Have Mr. Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11892	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I will be brief. Given the time we've been waiting to get this budget and adopt it here, I don't think we should add anything or subtract it, we should adopt it, but it's so late that there's no time for any more delays. I myself, when I looked at this budget, I think that all the remarks I've heard from my colleagues, and if all of my own were added now, it would be necessary to extend this amendment phase. However, with the amendment phase, we will not achieve anything, because in the course of the year, a rebalancing that is supposed to put the amendment out of effect will occur. So nothing's gonna change. Here I want the first emphasis when it comes to salaries, when it comes to Parliament's salaries, I think three months of all media houses washing their mouths, here's what Mr. Kunić said in many of these paying agencies are far greater than members of Parliament. The Council of Ministers should therefore submit one report on all salaries in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, so that we can talk about it here in this parliament. The third thing I want to say is, I think there are reserves here, given that there are plenty of new institutions formed in this budget, that there are reserves in this year, that during the course of this year, by following the budget, the Council of Ministers submits a report on the situation after 6 months where it could be seen what is filling and emptying and where there would be enough reserves to be made out of certain items here, and which colleagues have already spoken can be separated, under the alleged signs in the reserve, or a certain amount of money for those newly formed institutions that we have always talked about to form, and we have not provided the money, which is very important. Therefore, my proposal is that the budget is not delayed to adopt itself with a conclusion after 6 months to be briefed by the Council of Ministers on the situation of the budget and possible rebalancing from the discussions held by MPs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11893	I thank Mr. Mišić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. I don't have any more records to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11894	I'll try to be very brief. Here's a series of absurds that my predecessors used to say here, I'll say one more, - can we get information on what we're going to do with 50 hundred thousand marks with koridor C-5-5? If we get an answer that we're going to do it, then I think we've achieved the right effect. I mean, I'm talking about we've devoted a lot of sessions to Corridor C-5, and the budget provides only 100,000 miles for Corridor C-5. That means it doesn't have any of it. Or there's some explanation that might say why. However, most of the items shown here are talked about the differences in the plans. I can't understand that we don't have a law that clearly and loudly defines who gets what. How can it be in certain ministries that the minister has a higher, lower salary, if there is no value. Therefore, I think that this part of the job can also be said to be a task, as it would be a conclusion that is likely to go in this section, that there must be a law on salaries of officials and employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we'll even it out, I'd say levels, and then we won't have these absurdities that appear here. I don't think there's going to be any questions about how that 1,600 should take less than the Ministry has there than I don't know 200 people. And the third question, I ask of you chair – here is this text: the draft budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, first reading. Does that mean after this we have the right to change action? If that means there isn't, then this isn't the first reading. Therefore, please give an explanation. So first and last. Say it's the first and the last, because the government here now thinks it'll come second. So I'm asking you to explain it, maybe there's a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11895	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word has Mr Ibrahim Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11896	Gentlemen Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11897	I'm asking you to be patient, and we've been listening to everyone so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11898	fellow MPs, I'll be very brief. I feel the need just to draw attention, I think for the second time to rent property and equipment. If you look at it, it's the third budget expenditure and amounts to more, only two ministries are above it. So all other consumers are below. If we divide this sum by the number that one average apartment, or business space in Sarajevo, here's, say, 60,000 marks, 230 apartments a year, or we give room for rent. I think those who pass the budget on this and how they have to make an account and allocate funds to build, buy, renovate, make something to reduce it. It's a similar thing with the communal services that I think are enormously the same 6.5 million large and that I don't keep counting. As far as I'm concerned, the law, or budget, can support this conclusion, otherwise not. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11899	I thank Mr. Đedović. As there are no more applications for discussion, I will allow, if the minister wishes, there were more comments and questions, and by the time she comes to the pay phone, I will remind you of the report that we received from the committee in charge and I think the commission has done a really big job, one 5-6 conclusions decadently standing here in the debate. And let us be like the House at the level of responsibility and, if necessary, to see some things, but that a previous work that is not exactly to be thrown away and where there are many useful and conclusions and suggestions that we still respect. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11900	Here's the thing. So as for the calendars making the budget, I really didn't want to start the budget, explain the budget in a way that we start to justify ourselves, but that really looks like this. In September, we finished the draft budget, we were ready for Parliament as far as we were concerned about what we knew at the time. So here I can bring it now, so I'll show you. Not much of it, is it? So it was over in September. Last mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the IMF comes and ends mission 18.12. Bosnia and Herzegovina was then confirmed that the entity's tranche would increase by 4% definitely. We've already done it, but we haven't received confirmation. 18.12. We're getting confirmation that it's going to be 4%. And now says 90th point Federation of Millions, RS and Brcko. So that's when they really knew that. In the meantime, we put in, put in budget users we knew when the Department of Defense was formed, when we agreed to form the Department of Defense. After New Year's Eve. And then in the meantime we wrote this text of the agreement in a way, you know that it's not exactly methodologically okay and I know that you'll accept it because it's really a transition, which I really want here to step up these efforts and this way get involved in that NATO, start with the European Commission talking. And we have it from the liquid moon, on the 8th, we signed for the defense, how we're going to finance the Ministry of Defense. How many entities will give – 4 million and 900, the whole defense, so the way it means monthly is then signed. We signed this agreement by 4%. 31.12. we sent a budget to the Council of Ministers without a signed agreement with the proposal. 18.2. get this signed agreement. 25.2. The Council of Ministers adopts the budget and sends it to the Presidency. 3.3. The Bureau sent it to Parliament, 8.3. comes to Parliament. So as far as this kind of thing is concerned, here's the calendar, it's pretty much like that, and it's really late, and I was analogizing that I wanted it to be almost 31.3. as it says in entity laws. I loved it when it was New Year's Eve, and by all promises we had it coming by New Year's Eve. The RS adopted the budget until New Year's Eve, the Federation the other day, we now. Here, so it's not good, but the budget still covers, regarding the issue of one of the representatives of all these institutions from these 16 objectives. So listed individually by the Competition Council, of 3 institutes, of three institutes, of the Office for fitty sanitary this protection, the Veterinary Office. So now the indirect tax administration is 100 grand plus what comes by the end of the year 52 million. So we with less or more resources managed to get it into this budget. 52 By adopting this kind of budget, we adopt everything that happens over the years. It's really little who would, I said there were no special problems, considering these aren't problems. This is life and work. So it comes in order, a little faster, a little slower, that's how it is. But I didn't exactly say there was, that there was no problem. I mean, yeah. There's still a lot of trouble there. Now it means pay. All ministers have the same salary, 8.5 times 240, plus internship. All deputies have the same salary 8.4 times 240 times internship. Now let's go helpers have the same salary, etc. If this means using this and when it's multiplication, it's a very simple mathematical operation of multiplication of meals. But in order for us to verify it, we wrote one tender three months ago, with the approval of the Council of Ministers, to insert one module into this eagle system that is equally accounted for, to enter data equally, so that it can be monitored and when it works, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of Parliament will be able to give that report. Now we can't. Each budget user shall have access to the vault via its own unit. I'm bringing it in, I'm counting it. We think it's okay. He's got a rule book, they've got coefficients, he's got a responsible person who fits. There's an audit office that can control it. Here's the back, now he'll come back behind the scrubs from the customer audit office. So we have these mechanisms of others. We'll have internal auditors under the new law. But these are all really transitions really you know better than I do, a transition that requires a lot of work, a lot of effort, understanding and goodwill. The budget is life. It's not a dead thing, it's written a single table, it's a life. So we're adapting and as far as Corridor V-c and these 100 grand are concerned. They are only written because we wanted to ourselves the same as for the administration of indirect taxation with 100 000 open the budget item of the user to be placed. The Paro's a little on the bill, but it's a very big wish. The work behind this is very large and the Council of Ministers, since there is no Mr Dokić, I will do two sentences as much as not to hurt the profession, or, say that we have announced this tender for designing that there is one list of performers, etc. that the funds for Corridor V-c will be initial if god knows from the third license. We've made a decision. 63 million are expected this year. Of the 63 million when we deploy, it means if nothing project documentation should be completed. But they know better engineers, etc. Mr. Dokić. So I tell the financials what we got. After this decision, for the third licence, adopted by the Council of Ministers, this agency, mentioned today, should issue a licence. So it goes into that too, and they're really, you know, according to the Communication Act, one special budget user really under one special law away from that we shouldn't all have the same thing as all of us subscribing here and paying and the number of employees, etc. And closer and I don't think they'd say no. But here's what we're gonna have, and we're probably going to have a report from the Audit Office, so we can take a look at that. So some things will settle slowly. During this year, he'll be all right. SIP's got some stuff now in half. The building was found. The other one's looking better. We've given 50,000 marks to say which is the best building. We're trying to solve something about weapons, about cars. It's a huge user who at some point will really be, after a year, two years, one powerful, one powerful institution. And it's a transition. And that's why we need both donations and goodwill and other sources of funding. Do some credits again now. So this, that way we'll do it if God prevails. And I think it was very good, considering what you said, which is very useful to us anyway, but here we all agree that it's a little late, but here's the thing, considering what I said, considering what the date is that we should really go, that we take our funding under the law, because I'm telling you the analogy of entity laws is 53, that it's not right. No matter what the law is, I would like the budget to be voted out if we did what you said and about wages and about new users and about everything else, for the adoption of a law that will now have to mean a quick procedure. Here's to management, etc. And to me, there's going to be an execution report now with New Year's, a half-year execution report and we're going to adapt a little bit to that and that's how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11901	I thank Minister Marić. I've closed the debate, and I'm going to propose as chairman next. Respecting all the MPs and the debate that I think has been one of the best since we were in the House and we've been justified with a lot of useful and suggestions and suggestions and even criticism, I would say justifiable, but also by respecting the fact that Marić is now talking about we have a responsibility to bring the budget and to fund the institutions legally. It's the responsibility of this home. And with respect to the fact that we had before us a Rules of Procedure and deadlines which were clearly defined and that we had the opportunity as representatives to make amendments at that stage, and given the fact that, apart from adopting two amendments and a budget, the Commission proposed one, two, three, four, five, six very high-quality conclusions that were on the trail of this debate which the MPs had and about the fact that the Council of Ministers had committed itself to delivering by 30.9 at the latest in the parliamentary procedure of the Payments Act, the fact that the budget was unwarrantedly delayed, that it was the principle of automation from acquired positions and that certain things such as CRA should be changed and a number of other quality conclusions, I, as chairman, believe that there are not so many strong arguments that we are prolonging this. There's an argument that's critical of this. We have heard that these remarks will also be respected through the report on budget implementation and through rebalancing. I put this draft budget to the vote. Tell Mr. Avdić. I think I've been tolerant today. I don't know what else you can offer compared to what I said? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11902	I'm sorry. It's an intrusion. I think it can also satisfy the report by the commission and Mrs. Minister has explained many things, and in this context I probably appreciate my colleagues from my club at our club supporting the budget. So we support the budget vote, firstly, means first reading. So we'll have another reading, Mr. Chairman, or we won't have another reading. Take it easy. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11903	Now we're talking about first reading. We know what first reading is. Well, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11904	For this reason, is it possible for the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Treasury to get full freedom so that from these discussions it can make some adjustments in this budget. Isn't that possible to give authority to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Treasury? 54
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11905	I mean it that way, and that's what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11906	Yeah, okay. This Parliament can do it. So we suggest that we give and simply from these discussions today, in line with the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Treasury's assessment, let it take what can be implemented simply into the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I am free for real reasons of commitment to the public, the reasons for my obligation to the voters I represent, put yourself in the position of this little man who expects this Parliament to interpret their interests, not our interests and interests of the Council of Ministers, etc. I propose a conclusion, quite freely, just for reasons of a simple calm conscience - the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on budget consideration, appreciates that there is a dramatic economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and accordingly requires that BH institutions have extreme rational behaviour in the spending of budget funds, especially in the area of personal incomes we suggest to suspend any increase in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11907	I thank Mr. Avdić. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for a budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading, and I will then put in place this proposal for a conclusion that Mr Avdić has made. To a plea. So, please state the proposal for the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's start the vote now. So, I would like to inform the House that the vote of the 35 present has reached 34. The vote was 27, abstentioned 5, against two votes. We also have an entity majority. I therefore conclude that the House of Representatives has established the draft budget of the BiH institutions according to the Commission's first reading report. I am running as today, to show the basis of this now I would say so a consensus on the conclusions to approach a statement on whether we will adopt the draft budget in another reading. I accept Mr. Avdić's suggestion that we make a statement about Mr. Avdić's conclusion before his statement in the second reading. Excuse me, Mr. Potočnik is asking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11908	I think the Presidency must come and explain if it does not motivate or has to explain how and why it has proposed such a budget, because it is he who proposes that budget, of course it is handled by the Council of Ministers. And we must, sir, preside over the practice that there are relations between the 55 BiH presidency and this parliament. You speak very often of dignity, not just of you, but of the other MPs. Let's not let that dignity get to us or anything else, let's fight for that dignity. So I suggest that today be not a second vote, or a second reading, but that the Bureau come to the next meeting and explain its reasons for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11909	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Potočnik, I'm having a hard time. I'm sorry. It's not intentional. Now we have a proposal for Mr. Avdić's conclusion. What Mr Potočnik has said is understood, and I am prepared to send on behalf of this House a letter unbound for the budget, but for the overall co-operation between the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency, and so this one, I would treat your proposal as accepted and personally to send a letter related to the overall co-operation. But I think we should make a statement about Mr. Avdić's proposal. Is there any need to wait for him, in writing, or to read it again? Please read it again. Here you go, Mr. Avdić. May I have your attention, please, and turn on the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11910	... The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of the budget, it is estimated that there is a dramatic economic and social situation in BiH and that, accordingly, it requires BH institutions to have extreme rational behaviour in spending budget funds. Especially in the area of personal incomes we suggest that any increase be suspended during 2004. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11911	I thank Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11912	We could go back to 2003, what do you think, Seade?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11913	The word asked again for Mr. Potočnik, please. You see multiple times and then it comes
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11914	Yes, what Mr. Avdić suggested, it's actually an ash spill. I don't think that's necessary, because it's a permanent task for both Parliament and the Council of Ministers to make sure it's harmonised, and not to make us look nice in front of people and the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11915	Here you go, Mr. Avdić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11916	...which enters this Parliament into such a wide door. Which means my colleague Potočnik got me all wrong. If that were the behavior, Mr. Potočnik, we wouldn't have a budget like this today, simply in a draft of this kind of criticism that we've highlighted today. 56 Which means that BH institutions are not acting precisely as part of the maximum rational behaviour and control of budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11917	I thank Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11918	Well, I also didn't understand this very conclusion best, but I think that all other items other than personal income are much more subject to criticism than personal income. Personal income is what a representative, minister, assistant minister, cleaning lady earns. So, according to Mr. Avdić, it's just dramatic. That word bothers me dramatically. You're the last point of this, you've made the whole mess in Parliament when one conclusion was whether it's going to be a decimal or not. The word is really unnecessarily unnecessary in one such conclusion, and I think that I really think that this one is much more problematic if someone is going to get A8 or A4 than if someone is going to get their own personal income that they earned or didn't earn. We need to talk about whether there's someone who hasn't earned his personal income. Well, maybe this one, I don't want to run the controversy because I didn't answer when he was talking. Maybe your colleagues from the CIA would want to keep it down, so let's just say so. Maybe if they were here in our place, they'd suggest a conclusion not to cut wages. So we're asking them not to increase, let's go if they're big enough not to increase them, but they might be asking them not to shrink. So, um, I suggest we take this conclusion the second time we get it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11919	Are you finished, Mr. Zorić? I thank Mr. Zorić. The word was requested by Mr. Filip Andrić. You see when you think they're working,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11920	We won't until we're on the move. The plea I want to make
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11921	Please, we've finished the debate. We're on the move in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11922	Recall once again the conclusions and recommendations of the Commission on Finance and Budget. I, as a member of that commission, really had most of these remarks, through my amendments to the commission. I've given up these amendments on the commission. By consensus, we have accepted these recommendations on the committee, despite these recommendations from the committee, I think that this conclusion makes absolutely no sense, unless someone needs to be served for political purposes. I really do, and I think that the places to discuss this topic will be when we are just discussing the Law on paying the users of the budget. And I'm asking you to leave this debate at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11923	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11924	Here's very specific, and I think 57.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11925	I'm closing the hearing, so no more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11926	Exactly. We have already discussed this subject at one of the previous sessions. This topic is on the Administrative Commission, Mr. Lagumdžija's resolution, so don't let us reopen the same subject. This is unnecessary today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11927	Does Mr. Avdić insist on voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11928	I made myself perfectly clear. It is not about personal income, but it is about the urgency that during 2004, while respecting what it really is in BiH, there is no increase in personal income, and the first point of view also obliges the CRA to reconsider its personal incomes, in terms of please, it is quite clear and there is no controversy there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11929	Okay. I am putting Mr. Avdić's proposal on the vote. Please, we've finished the debate. You can vote now. So 22 MPs joined the vote. There were six abstentions, three against 13. I find Mr. Avdić's proposal has failed. I am staying with the proposal that I put out in the beginning to make the House known whether we will approach the vote on a statement in the second reading. I'm putting this proposal on a plea. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11930	I'm four, I voted for me it was green to know. I'm four. It's a club counter. I don't know. I voted for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11931	So, I'm reporting to the House that 34 MPs have joined the vote. Of which for 27, abstention 4, versus 3.. I konstatirati that the House has declared itself, that we should make a statement on the draft budget of the BiH institutions and in the second reading. I am putting on the statement of the draft budget of the BiH institutions in the second reading. Please vote now. I'd like some results. So 32 MPs joined the vote. From that, 25 were declared, abstention 5, v. 2. The law also has a general and entity majority in the second reading. And I agree that we adopted the BiH institutions' draft budget for 2004 in both the first and second readings. 58 And I thank everyone for the quality of the debate and for understanding that this law is being declared in two readings. Thanks again, everybody. We're going to the tenth item of the agenda, that's A.10. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2004, in first reading, all what I said in the light of the previous point, applies to this one. And I am opening a debate in my first reading on the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institution's budget for this year. I've got one on display. It's Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11932	Can I make a comment for the previous point?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11933	I think that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11934	Only comment, resulting collapse
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11935	And I beg you to understand me. I'll let you, I think I'll let you, but here's the real deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11936	Let me just say that we have now brought down our own dignity in such a way that we have not invited the Presidency to explain this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11937	I have spoken my position as House Chairman through the obligation to send a letter to the Presidency, concerning the overall co-operation of both this and the other issues, and it will go as safely as tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports of a hearing on the 11th wheel? There isn't. I'm closing up. Did you sign up, Mr. Moranjkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11938	Oh, I did, someone pushed my... card.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11939	Here's 59.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11940	These neighbors aren't very fond of me. I'd like a very short one. First, I'd ask a question based on what it is and based on what parameters are the budget reserves planned? I understand what items are to cover with reserves, but I don't know what parameters were used when that number was thrown out of 4 million and 600. Secondly, a member - it is not understood whether 41st or a member of 47th of this law
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11941	Excuse me, who is this question for? for Minister
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11942	Budgetary law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11943	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11944	Am I at a good address?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11945	I didn't say anything but you
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11946	Well, you asked. Further in Article 41 of this Act, criminal provisions are being spoken of. The visas of these so far, the observations made and the real situation, related to the adoption of budgets, and the availability of the same, I don't think the criminal provisions are well foreseen and it stands there in Article 41 that the persons responsible for 500 to 1,000 KM can be maximum punishment for this force of affairs they need or do not have to do. I think they're small and I suggest that they be increased to a minimum of 1,000 to 3,000 KM. And in article 40, the responsible person in law. And in Article 42 of the same law, I think it is reckless, or somehow, to me that this formulation has been carried out, so I suggest that this member be re-recasted and that it should be said – if to whom it can be paid, this is Article 42 unless the budget of BH institutions is adopted by the end of 2004, and the international obligations of BH and the Law on the implementation of the budget, international commitments for 2005. It means that what happened in the benches today is not waiting for us, so I suggest that it continue, so to say – financing of budgetary users and international obligations BH will be done on the basis of a decision on temporary financing, with the application of the applicable laws and regulations. But the regulation of this article as it is written is simply ungrably written and I suggest simply more language correction to be a member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11947	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Would any of the promoters like to comment? 60 The word has Mrs. Marić, BiH Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11948	As far as Article 41 is concerned, it would be normal for this amount to be and that this article of criminal provisions is in line with the Law on Violations. Since I don't remember there's a law on violations at the state level, I assume analogy has been applied. So from entity laws, let me tell you, you know far from that this can't be increased and there wouldn't be any problem with that being increased. But we stick to the meaning of either analogy or our law. We don't have anything right now. I don't know what else we'd be putting in between that. If the rest of you agree to increase, feel free to do so. As regards Article 42 of the Constitution, it is prescribed that temporary financing should be applied in case there is no budgetskg of funding and therefore no temporary financing is mentioned here, but is only said for this part if it is transferred in the following year. The new budget laws also say temporary funding is possible. You know, there doesn't have to be a situation like this. It could be anything else for temporary funding. It's not that, it exists everywhere in the world, and it's also in the new law. So I wouldn't touch it too much for now, and if you think this is too mild, I don't know, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11949	I thank Minister Marić. The debate is closed. There was no amendment. We have received a report from the Commission on the bill proposal and budget implementation. I therefore propose that we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH institution's budget in the first reading. Vote now. So 28 MPs joined the vote. For it was 24, abstention 3, versus 1. We have 15 from the Federation, 9 from the RS. We also have an entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives adopted the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2004 budget in the first reading. And I suggest as chairman of the House that the House be declared will we approach the plea in the second reading? Please plead. Vote now. Thank you. 35 MPs joined the vote. 28, abstention 5, v. 2. So the House decided to make a statement on the draft law on the implementation of BiH's institutions budget and in the second reading. I'm asking you to do it. Vote now. Thank you. So, a total of 33 MPs joined the vote. 26, abstention 5, v. 2. I konstatirati that we adopted the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and in the second reading. 61 I thank the MPs. And I think today, with a quality debate and a proposal for conclusions, we did a good job. We also adopted the draft budget and the draft law on enforcement in both readings. I would like to thank Minister Marić for the introduction of both the arguments and the willingness to cooperate further. And I suggest we move on to the eleventh item of the agenda, that's A.11. Review of the Report of the Office for the Audit of Financial Affairs of the BiH institutions on the audit carried out for 2002 and so on: (a) Parliamentary Assembly, (b) Presidency, (c) Constitutional Court, (d) Court of BiH, (e) Council of Ministers, (f) Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (d) Ombudsman for Human Rights, (h) Ministry of Treasury and Finance, (i) Statistics Agency, (j) Ministry of European Integration, (k) Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (l) Ministry of Civil Affairs, (m) Centre for the Removing of Mines of BiH, (n) Office for Joint Affairs of Institution of BiH, (j) State Border Service of BiH, (p) Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, q) BiH Election Commission, (f) Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, (t) Directorate for Civil Aviation, in BiH) Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Affairs and Investments in BiH (BiH) You've received the Financial Audit Office's report. As you can see, a business audit was carried out in 2002 for 24 institutions. On 06th of this month, you have received a report from the Finance and Budget Committee to consider this report. The Finance and Budget Commission proposes to the House to adopt a report by the Commission's Recommendation Office. And I'm opening a debate on the Office's report. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11950	...to say a few words, I don't think there's any need to explain because we have a recommendation report in front of us. And I'd like to say something else. First of all, I'd like to express myself in front of the commission and on my own behalf, the satisfaction of having very, very, very good reports from the Office of Audit. Clear, short, transparent, acceptable and understandable to anyone who is referred to this matter and to anyone who wants to know the matter. 62 I would also like to express my satisfaction that, throughout the work of the Commission, throughout the entire period we worked on, several sessions had a constant co-operation with the representatives of the Office for Audit, in terms of providing certain information that we were looking for, and above all about how progress was made, or how recommendations under the previous report adopted by this Parliament for 2000 under the 2001 Report, what has been done, what has been done, what has been done, and what has been done, we have also received information according to previous audits for 2003, complete information and we have received normally in collaboration with the Office for Auditing and Answers of all the institutions that we have asked for what we have done in a concrete sense in the recommendations that apply to each institution. What it is, it is what encourages us to practically in this institution, that this institution is at the level of need and task that it stands before. I would also like to say that, in relation to all these analyses, it has been seen that all institutions have practically or most of the institutions of budgetary consumers had some positive shifts, i.e. that they have had a positive feedback effect with these institutions, that most have taken certain steps to eliminate the failures and weaknesses in the system of cost-making, the fundamental spending of public funds, the core funds of the BiH budget. However, the issue of internal controls remains to a significant extent. This must be in the next period one of the basic pillars of control and it must be an obstacle for which all possible extreme situations will be avoided in the next period. And in order to do so, we think that in a unique way...../interrupted link/....obligation and approval of expenditure both in laws and in practice, which is also one of the tasks of the Council of Ministers in the coming period to be removed, that through laws which are in collegiate this matter are retaliated in a unique way and that, in cooperation with the Treasury and the Office of Audit, a unique way is written, i.e. those issues in respect of certain expenditures, in particular personal receipts, material additions, etc. and other specific sensitive costs such as e-mails, representations, car use, etc. regulate in a unique way for all BiH institutions. What is important for one of these, transparently and so to say, avoiding all possible extreme situations in the consumption of public revenue, i.e. budgetary resources, is important to pass several laws. And these are the Public Procurement Act, the Accounting Act and the Permanent Law on budget implementation. I think that by adopting these recommendations, Parliament should return perhaps more often than only once a year when it adopts a practical report on the audit carried out, then it practically returns to previous recommendations, but it is always practical for a year at the bottom. We think that, according to the recommendations adopted, Parliament should receive certain answers and have certain information more frequently, at least every 6 months. I think that, in this respect, both the Commission and the Council of Ministers and the Office for Audits should, in co-operation, provide Parliament with timely specific information so that this, more specifically and that certain measures can be taken in a permanent manner. We think this should be a permanent and parliamentary practice in the BiH Parliament. In this regard, we think that we should also give full support to the Office for the Review of Maximum Staff Equipment, to train technically, to find certain accommodation spaces adequate for the work of this institution that is very important in this overall process of controlling public revenue spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11951	I thank Mr. Kragulj. Who's next to the word? I don't have any more reports here. The word has a general auditor, Mr Miletić. I, wait a minute just I would ask you since I gave my word, I'm sorry the man is already, please, there, there, I've got now a report here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11952	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, the chairperson, the distinguished MPs, MPs, gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen, have been audited by the budget users for 2002 and the report delivered to you last September, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the media. And we also put all our reports on the website of the Audit Office. We have pooled our findings, and we have set out a special chapter in addition to the other budget audit, and we have also processed the main findings and recommendations, so that it will be easier for you and your representatives to manage this set of data. Of the key weaknesses in planning, budget implementation, I'd like to highlight just some. There is still poor budget planning with users, and especially I can call the old habit that users plan more funds than they need because they later expect someone to cut those funds. Then I think it gives the Treasury a small deadline for the institutions to deliver their budgets, which is one of the causes of weak planning, and during the year, a redistribution of these funds must be made. In addition, the Treasury Ministry should give more instructions, guidance and guidance to facilitate the work of budgetary users and especially when the laws that the Minister of the State mentions are missing, which is the Law on the financing of institutions, standards, accounting standards for the Public Sector, etc. I therefore propose to strengthen the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, in particular the Budget Sector, in order to better monitor and implement the budget according to individual users and items, which is in the spirit of today's debate, so that any savings in the budget can be found and subsequently rerouted to newly formed institutions, investment projects, etc. It is also necessary to establish an internal audit system as soon as possible and strengthen the internal control system. As for the main findings of most institutions, we divided it into several chapters. We first put an internal control system in place and Mr. President of the Commission Mr. Kragulj has already mentioned some of the shortcomings that we have seen. These are the lack of these rules and procedures for the use of a vehicle, the use of a cell phone, the use of a team, and I believe it is necessary at a uniform level within the Council of Ministers to adopt rules for these types of costs. Then we faced a vague division of responsibility between the management of ministers, deputies, secretaries, etc. which often creates problems within the functioning of the institution. Then the reporting system is not adequate and the protection of funds and facilities is not at an enviable level. 64 As far as financial accounting business is concerned, I would mention that... And it also creates problems with management because it cannot make quality decisions. [[Disable microphone]] There are also still lists of assets, they are not adequate and there is a lot to be done. We've paid special attention this year to our purchases. We know that procurement is an area that is very vulnerable to corruption. This led to a detailed analysis of all the purchases of the institutions where we had audited. We have noticed that there are still institutions that do not discuss competitions, which are required depending on the law. In the first period there were over 10 thousand marks, and after the adoption of the budget over 50,000 marks was the obligation to call a public tender, although we are all witnessing that there is an increasing number of public competitions in the official newspapers and in the printed media. The acquisitions are also not united, so there is a cleavage of procurement and avoidance of these legal obligations. One of these causes is poor law enforcement in procurement, and we are all witnessing now that it is in preparation for the Public Procurement Act to be adopted as soon as possible. When it comes to the IT system, I would just mention one case we found, that there are no rules on the protection of information data and the creation of computers, so there was, for example, a loss of data on diplomatic passports because no backups were made. Often, special purpose programs are mentioned here today. We have also seen and there are a lot of problems and irregularities in the special purpose program. First of all, the cost of analytically per item, within the programme, is not worked out, so the possibility of those who use these funds, to use them as they want and not as they should. Thus, programmes are also not well defined, so they are not clear objectives, effects, ways of reporting, recording, etc. And often these programs and projects open up the possibility of unintended spending of funds and I would ask this House to deal with this problem more. We also noticed problems in the appointment of management. We have the Institute of Standards and Measurement of Intellectual Property, and I am glad that today and those points were on the agenda, where the performer of duty will be appointed for three months and remains for 2-3 years. This also has a negative impact on the work of that institution, on the establishment of internal controls, etc. However, in general, it can be said that every year there is some progress in the work of institutions, although we are not satisfied. There's plenty of room to improve work. I therefore propose, as Mr President of the Commission has suggested, that this high House request from the Council of Ministers and other institutions, over the course of the year, feedback on what they have done in accordance with the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, according to the findings of the Office for Audit, in order to force the immediate correction of the identified weaknesses and shortcomings. In this way, the role of the Parliamentary Assembly in overseeing the work of state institutions would be strengthened and the responsibility of state institutions to tax bonds would be increased in terms of spending public money. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11953	I thank Mr. Miletić. The word has Mrs. Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is always a special pleasure to discuss the materials of this office and I must commend yes, I am truly pleased and it is truly beautiful material.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11955	Please, Mrs. Sopta, we're all,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11956	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11957	I'm sorry, but I mean this one because everyone else deserves it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11958	Thank you very much. I would also like to commend the Finance Commission and the budget which has really approached this material in a studio way, to give my opinion and my recommendations. However, it is somewhat sad to find that the two institutions, only two institutions have received a positive opinion from the Audit Office. Everyone else got an express opinion with a reserve. That is, therefore, for sure to point out, it is the service of external debt in the Central Bank of BiH and Ombdusmen's Office, everyone else says they have an opinion with a reserve. I'd just like to draw attention to certain things here and there at random. Here's what we discussed today, and it was proposed that we decide in advance not to raise the salary this year. This same Parliament, the institution of Parliament, in 2002, was compensated for occasional and temporary jobs and paid them to employees in a permanent working relationship in Parliament. In the analysis of the report, there are up to 50% of the salary. I think there's a huge reserve here that we have to deal with and probably even find some kind of reserve and raise the wages. Second, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. I'm interested in whether and when someone will answer that they've been non-transparently deploying and giving funds, donations. He also non-transparently hired individual houses to resuscitate the facilities. Then, at the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, I think this was also in the 2001 report, that the way the extra funds are spent and agreed, especially since the occurrence of the extra funds from year to year, remains unregulated and is not taken into account when planning the budget for next year. I think I should expect some kind of comment here very quickly and the answer to what happens to these means that are transferred year after year and not a small number. There's over a million figures. Also, the wage accounting system is not fully elaborated. We have no control over what the pay system is, the salary calculation at the Regulatory Agency and these are some things that I would only point out but I believe that Mr Miletić will, at the provisional audits, determine what happened under these remarks and that we, as Parliament, will get information. I hope so, and it seems to me that I have read here that this, this material, is also addressed to the Public Prosecutor's Office and I expect these phenomena to be removed first, and the second, to take responsibility measures. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11959	I thank Mrs. Sopta. I don't have any more hearings here. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Now we need to make a statement about the Audit Office's report. We have 24 institutions here, and each institution is an institution for itself, and we should now first identify ourselves on how to vote. But then on the grounds that the declaration of the package implies that we have declared ourselves individually, positively on the Report, on each institution. So there aren't any open questions. We agree on, I say, well [[Common discussion]] Okay, so I accept the suggestion. Please see the quorum before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11961	No cards removed, no quorum good
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11962	Has quorum, has
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11963	Please state the report of the Commission on Finance and Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives on the Report of the Office for the Audit of Financial Business of the BiH institutions on the audit of institutions for 2002. Please plead. Vote now. So, I find that the vote has joined - 25 MPs. For there were 25 abstentions, none against them. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a Commission report on finance and the budget of the House of Representatives and on the review of the Report of the Office for the Audit of Financial Operations of the BiH institutions on the audit carried out for 2002 and that 24 institutions are standing in the Report and according to the order set out here. I thank the MPs for their vote. I thank Mr Miletić and his associates on behalf of the BiH Office for the Audit of Business Institutions. And we're going to the twelveth point, that's Ad.12. A report on the business of the Financial Audit Office itself for 2003 It was delivered to you on 30.03. I am opening a debate on this report on the business of the Financial Audit Office for 2003. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I would like to conclude debate 67, and I would like to propose that the House declare itself on the report, on the business of the Financial Audit Office for 2003. Please vote now. Thank you very much. I konstatirati that 22 MPs have joined the vote. Everyone has declared their support for the Audit Office's report. No Niko was abstentioned, no one against. I agree that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously adopted the 2003 Financial Audit Office Report. I thank both the MPs and the people of the Audit Office. Thank you very much. We're going to the thirteenth agenda, that's Ad.13. Discussion under (a) Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2003 and (b) Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2003. I'm opening a debate. Just a second of patience, please. Okay, as there are no reports for the debate, I am finalising the debate and I propose that we make a statement on the report we received from the Finance Commission and the Budget of the BiH House of Representatives with the conclusions proposed and on the Annual Report of the Central Bank and the Financial Report of the Central Bank. So we're pleading on the Central Bank's report with the Commission's conclusions. Please, Mr. Potočnik, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11964	Sure, look.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11965	He's right. He's 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11966	Look.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11967	Please call the service yes. I think we've caught a beat and we don't need to take a break and let's get the job done.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11968	We have 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11969	It's got, it's got a quorum
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11970	Only wrong cards 68
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11971	There's enough of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11972	I thank Mr. Potočnik for his intervention. I therefore propose that we make a statement first on the Central Bank's Annual Report with a proposal for the conclusion of our commission. Please vote. Vote now. So, I agree that the vote was joined by 23 MPs. For it was—23, so no one abstentioned, no one against. I am from the Federation – 15, from the RS – 8. I agree that we have adopted the Annual Report of the Central Bank with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budgets. We move to a statement on the Central Bank's 2003 Financial Report with the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. Please plead. Vote now. Thank you. The vote was attended by 24 MPs. for -24, not one abstention, not one against. I agree that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the Financial Report of the Central Bank for 2003 with the Opinion of Conclusions and the Commission's Report on Finance and Protraction. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourteenth agenda, that's Ad.14. Proposal for a conclusion on the authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts You have received a proposal for conclusions adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House and proposed it to the House for adoption. The aim of these conclusions was to fill the existing gap in the Dom's Rules of Procedure, as there was no procedure for interpreting laws and other general acts. You've received a proposal for a conclusion from the board. Please, I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the proposal for conclusions that we have received from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and regarding requests for authentic interpretation of the laws of other and general acts. Please plead. Vote now. Thank you very much. So, the total vote was 22 MPs. For – 21, abstention – 1, it was not against votes. From the Federation – 15, from RS – 6.. I konstatirati that the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has received the necessary majority in the House of Representatives and that we have adopted conclusions on the authentic interpretation of laws, other regulations and general acts. Thank you very much. 69 We're going to the fifteenth point, that's Ad.15. The motion for a resolution on the declaration of 2004 and 5 years of young and years of solidarity, Proposer Mr Tihomir Gligorić, at the 29th session, I remind you, Mr Gligorić, has submitted the motion for a resolution. In accordance with Rule 121(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the House concluded that the motion for a resolution had previously been examined by the committee in charge. As competent, the College has appointed a Constitutional and Legal Commission. The committee's report on the motion for a resolution was sent to you on 6 this month. The representative, Mr Momčilo Novaković, submitted an amendment to the motion for a resolution that you also received. I am opening a debate on the motion for a resolution as well as on the amendment. Mr. Mladen Potočnik picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11973	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I am interested in what this resolution can mean for young people in BiH in 2004 and 2005, i.e. to ask Gligorić, because only declaring is not maliciously understanding me, just declaring the age of young people in principle does not mean anything in itself unless there is concrete action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11974	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please. Well, Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Are you Ljilja, Mrs. Milićević, were you answering? before Mr. Gligorić Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11975	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, this one, thinking in the way Mr Potočnik has thought, and that is to make this resolution practically possible at least part of what the promoter had intended to achieve, I thought that then it should be realistic, that is, to make something that was proposed there realistic. And also given that the resolution is, in fact, an expression of political attitude and that it must be based on some political realities, my proposal practically amends itself in principle that all institutions are in charge, that everyone at their level does the job. In my opinion, in Resolution 2, the Council of Ministers of BiH did not have the wide authority to bring such a programme itself and to insist on its implementation further, or to provide for its implementation, but that each institution should do so at its level within its jurisdiction. In that case, he gets a little bit more of an opportunity to put it in practice, is one such resolution. Also, Article 2 where the House of Representatives is scheduled to adopt the Solidarity Programme, I believe that everyone at their level, i.e. we expect everyone within their competence to plan and implement measures to provide assistance to citizens who are at a minimum of existence. And for that reason, I have also proposed amendments and I propose to the House that we adopt a resolution with points 2 and 3 of these amendments. Practically, Article 1 to remain, paragraphs 2 and 3 to be a proposal of these amendments, and I ask the motion for a resolution to respect these amendments and thus allow this resolution to mean passing through. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11976	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word has Mrs. Milićević so Mr. Gligorić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11977	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues, the very idea of a resolution, sounds like a nice text to me, something is declared and unfortunately missing content. What should be content, it's not a story for a resolution, nor for us to raise our hands here or press the green button and say – so we did our part of the job and go out here and say – you know what we've declared to your children these two years. I would also really like as a parent and here as an MP, for the future of BiH to be those children and for them to be the bearers of it. I noticed a positive shift when it was a development strategy. When I read this document, I saw young people there who were involved in the work on that document. And I realized it as if the door had just been opened, to this young world. And I think it is, so it's not the point that we support it, but it lacks content. The content of this is that gentlemen, through the Council of Ministers or entities, we are given all possible assistance. So, first that evil that plagues BiH's youth means fighting drugs. Secondly, to allow the best conditions for schooling children, as high-quality law as possible, better quality schooling, schooling. means that they come, that they have the opportunity to get to it as cheaply as possible, and then the fact that our youth has the opportunity to start working somewhere. It means we're making the laws and the best solutions that will enable them to work. In this way, they will become complete people so that they can form their families and have children and take responsibility for BiH's future. So this dry paper is. I mean, I can vote for this, you don't have to vote, you don't. But the problem is essentially. So this is one piece of paper that we're going to wave all together, and the bottom line is how much we've devoted really to that time and attention to the youth and what we've all given to our youth together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11978	Thank you, Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11979	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11980	There are no more reports to report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11981	Given that you correctly said in the introduction and what procedure this resolution went through, I would also appreciate the time, just stress that it would be good to accept this resolution and that what Mr Mladen Potočnik asked, in order to make this concrete, I believe that the Council of Ministers would be able to come up with a way to help young people who need it. Among other things, in a way to say for employees in joint institutions, because they are looking for years of solidarity, they prescribe that or actually ask all the workers of institutions, joint institutions to pay one salary and on this basis they can earn a few million dollars in a fund that could help. If anything, let's say graduates or students who are in a difficult position, in a difficult material position. 71 I did not want as an MP to be so far-reaching that I would suggest a final solution, believing it was correct for the Council of Ministers to do so within their jurisdiction. I remind you that at the 13th session of January of 23rd this year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Declaration on, there, it is called the 2004 and 2005, meaning youth and years of solidarity, and has also tasked the government to form that kind of programme, and I believe that there are enough creative people in the Council of Ministers and in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who could be amongst them to collect on this basis solidarity, 5 or 10 million marks and in this way and to help some students or some endangered people. I believe that what Mr. Novaković proposed with the amendment, brings us back to exactly what we need to support under 1. that it means that the years of youth and solidarity are declared, and including point 2. there is no operational part of that programme, fund or other way that our people in the executive wave should come up with and thus be able to actually come up with the declarative support as what they are doing at the time -- you have our moral support, and in essence you have no ability to help. I would really ask the MPs to, and I believe that they and personally as humans support any effort, so if 10 students are helped in this country, we should try to help in this way. Convinced that the political parties' programmes also care for all the structures of society are very pronounced and especially for young people. You know that the burden is not evenly distributed in this BiH and that many are poor. And that way we could help. You see the individual cases we've had, we beat the silence, so either someone sees through or someone hears, etc. These are all individual examples. So some are individual examples, let's solve 100 young people, it's still some shift in relation to something systemically solved in this country, until the economy starts, until someone comes to create new jobs. But until then, to declare, to forgive, not to give concrete support, at least to minimal projects, I don't think it would be correct. And therefore, I would ask that Mr Novaković withdraw the amendment this way and thus help us to adopt the resolution together because on the Constitutional and Legal Committee there were objections from the SDA and the SDS regarding the resolution and I think that it should not continue in Parliament, but simply support it and if this authority is so creative, I think it can provide only through the plan, 5 million marks. This should be suggested by both the Federation and the other entity and thus only by means of a single separate daily journal in BiH, up to 10 million marks, and let them think that and what are the criteria to help this youth. Here, I'd like you to really appreciate that. These aren't political reasons either, I didn't emphasize either party or td. appreciating that we could say this way, we took one step until something systemically is resolved in BiH. I ask you to support this and not now come to the situation that at the level of BiH while at the level of the RS entity, this resolution, or declaration, is being supported. It might be a bad message to our public, especially to young people as a particularly endangered category, which we talk about so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11982	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mrs Palavrić answered the word, please. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11983	Yes, I actually wanted to correct one false quote, Mr. Gligorić, but this replica doesn't work on this technique. I can understand Mr Gligorić's wish, but I am essentially sharing Mrs Ljiljana Milićević's opinion and I think that would be a way to resolve this issue. However, what I wanted to replicate and ask Mr. Gligorić to help himself. So, if we want to help young people, we, as representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, must use the terms the Constitution provides. Mr Gligorić advocates that young people find their place in BiH's joint institutions. Such institutions do not exist in BiH. And I just want to ask each of my colleagues to use the term used by the Constitution, which is BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11984	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Zorić, so Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11985	I just wanted to say on behalf of the HDZ Club, that we will support this resolution for one reason only.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11986	I thank Mr. Zorić. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11987	Dear Chairman, my fellow Gligorić, I believe that both you and your reflection and the motion for this resolution have had a sincere wish. However, when something is proposed, at least by my deep conviction you should say who, what, how and when. If you had proposed a fund at BiH level for young people where it would be precisely a clear principle of fundraising and would have said clearly the principle of the distribution of funds for young people, to help, it would have supported at the same time. The resolution itself would say more of an attitude than concrete help. And that's why I'm against it, the opposition would say some political resolutions that sound nice but in life really won't change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11988	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Nijaz Duraković came forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11989	In front of the BiH Party, we will support the resolution for no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11990	I thank Mr. Duraković. It is shown that this parliament has hidden resources, creative ones that only come to terms this afternoon. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković has the word. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11991	Since we're praised for more red scarves and five-point caps, here I join, withdraw the amendments, and we'll only support for one reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11992	Okay, thank you both to the promoter and the participants in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the motion for a resolution, as Mr. Novaković, as the amendment promoter, withdrew the amendments, which I thank on behalf of the College. Please state on the motion for a resolution, that the year of the 2004 and 2005 declaration of the young and years of solidarity of the promoter Mr Tihomir Gligorić. Please vote now. Thank you very much. The vote was joined by 29 MPs. For – 25, abstention – 4, no one was against. There's an entity majority. I therefore conclude that the House of Representatives adopted the motion for a resolution, the proponent of Mr Tihomir Gligorić, on the declaration of 2004 and 2005 for young and years of solidarity. Thank you very much. We're going to the sixteenth point, that's Ad. 16. The appointment of a member in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text, and under (a) the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of BiH, and under (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of BiH Proposals for these laws adopted in different texts in this and the House of Peoples. In order to bring the text into line, it is necessary to appoint members of the Joint Commission of both homes. The Enlarged College has set out a proposal for members in these joint committees (a) for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag, proposed by Mr Hazim Felić, Mrs Mara Perkanović and Mr Vinko Zorić, (b) for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Defence, Mr Petar Kunić, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Mirsad Ćeman were proposed. Is there a need for a debate? Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11993	I would, and here we agreed at the club to be Mr. Gligorić instead, since I have a lot of work to do and I couldn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11994	Thank you very much. Is there any other additions? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11995	sobzir Kunić was my proposal, then Mr Gligorić is Mr Kunić's proposal. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11996	I thank Mr. Novaković, but the proposals from the representatives are legitimate regardless of who they are from. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11997	I think I can suggest. I suggest Mr. Gligorić. My suggestion is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11998	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? If I do not suggest we vote that for the members of the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the identical text of the Law, the first name of Mr. Hazim Felić, Mrs. Mara Perkanović and Mr. Vinko Zorić is the first one on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make a statement. You're voting now. Thank you very much. The vote went to 28th. That was for 28 MPs. No Niko restrained, no one against. I agree that we have unanimously established that the members of the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of this house will be appointed Mr. Hazim Felić, Mrs. Mara Perkanović and Mr. Vinko Zorić. Thank you. I propose we make it clear that Mr Gligorić, Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Ćeman will be appointed to the Joint Committee for the Consentation of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina on behalf of the House of Representatives. Please plead. You're voting now. Thank you very much. 29 MPs joined the vote. They all pleaded for, no one abstention, no one against. I agree that we have unanimously appointed Mr Tihomir Gligorić, Mr Ivo Mir Jović and gospodin Mirsad Ćeman to the Joint Commission in front of this House for the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence. Thank you very much. We move to the 17th point, the final point of today's session, Ad. 17. Giving consent to this House for ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Patent Organisation on Cooperation in the area of patents, (b) Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Swiss Federal Council, (c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on road transport of passengers and cargo You have also received the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Can we make a statement in the package? Mr. Filip Andrić answered the question. Here you go, Mr. Andrić. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u11999	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I propose that today we not declare this but rather to the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers declare this a final proposal, because tomorrow, when the agreements enter into force, they would not propose the termination of these agreements. Let them question each other one more time, and let them say if it's a final suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-14-0.u12000	I thank Mr Filip Andrić, but I think the procedure here is clear and that we have been given an explanation of the procedure both from the Council of Ministers and from the Presidency which are previously involved in the procedure and I believe that there have been conditions for us to clarify today on these proposals and that, if you agree, we are voting in full on these three agreements. Please state your consent to ratify those agreements. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So the vote went to 30. They were all in. No one abstention, no one against, I find that we have, that the House of Representatives has given consent to ratifying those agreements. Please, let me thank you today for your patience and understanding. I ran this session for the first time. I thank our services which I think have made a quality leap into this new kind of session management and all the technique we have used for all the representatives and guests and representatives of the public communication funds. Thank you very much, and I'm closing the 33rd session. Please leave the cards in your seats. It's a suggestion of service. The session's finished at 4:30.
