ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2710	Honorable delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, all present I welcome and wish a happy work to this assembly. At the session there are 15 delegates, from the Bosniak people 5, from the Croatian people 5, and from the Serb people 5. For the 24th session, I suggest the following agenda: 1. Legislative questions and answers; 2. Record of the 22nd and 23rd meetings of the House of Nations; 3rd. Balance of personnel in BiH institutions 4. Plan to schedule Bosnia and Herzegovina's headquarters; 5. Information on the fate of 46 children of children of the Children's Home “Ljubica Ivezić” taken from Sarajevo to Italy in 1992; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identity text of the Law on Police Officers of BiH; 7. Confirming the list of candidates in general positions in BiH's defence institutions; 8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 9. Proposal for a law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading; 10. Proposal for a law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading; 11. Proposal for a Framework Law on Stocks - first reading; 12. Proposal for a law establishing a Power Transfer Company – first reading; 13. Proposal for a law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading; 14. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 2 15. Information on the licences issued for the export/import of arms and military equipment in 2003.; 16. Giving consent to ratification of the First Amendment of the Agreement to a credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Second Amendment of the Agreement to a credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement on scientific and technical co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro. So this is the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone picking up? Any changes and additions to the agenda proposal? I find that no one answers for a word and puts the agenda as read for adoption. Who's on the agenda like this? Thank you very much. So we've adopted the agenda by 14 for 1 abstention. The observation by Mr. Šiljegović that there are no materials at this point, I think that some of them are bullets and we'll discuss them at points and we'll see. I'm sorry if that happened. Thank you very much. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions Answers to delegate questions were received by Mr. Boško Šiljegović, Mr. Anto Spajić and Mr. Tomislav Limov. So in the same order, I ask my colleagues are they satisfied with the answers to parliamentary questions? Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2711	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I last time received an answer to a parliamentary, or delegative question from the CIA Agency and, considering that it was a broader answer, I asked to make my remarks in one of the next sessions. References to the CRA Agency’s reply. 1. The CRA is an independent administrative organisation, as it states in its response, but does not respect any BiH state law. In response to the third chapter, it states that the Law on Ministrys and other management bodies applies to all ministries and all administrative organisations, but not to them alone. For that law to apply to CRA, it is necessary to review the letters of the Ministry of Justice from 9.7.2003, under the number 011239/03, where Chapter IV of Section 2 accurately defines what specific administrative organisations, such as CRA, must do. 3 CRA also does not respect the State Service Act, which will be explained in response to question number 2. The issue number 2 says that it does not respect the State Service Act is proof that the Agency for State Service since 8.4.2004, number 05342471/04, which I am submitting to you. When the Council of Ministers adopted an internal organisation and a systematization of jobs for the CIA, as for other ministries and administrative organisations, this internal organisation and systematization were never adopted for the CRA. Their internal rule was made according to employees, not according to the Council of Ministers' decision of 6.5.2003, where exactly the principles and tasks of the primary and auxiliary units were defined. Material number three. It is precisely because they have done such an internal organization that no one has verified and had the situation that the number of interests in my question and the performers who carry out these activities are responsible functions in the CRA, and is also a trader of the Deputy Director of Finance, and a master of Holticology Director of Spectrum for Broadcasting. Under 4. It is true that the BiH Constitution, Article 9(3) defines their allegations in response to question 4 but it is also true that employees in state institutions must represent the peoples of BiH, according to the latest census. What kind of employment on the basis of professional skills and work experience, as I have already said the most responsible jobs are performed by unskilled perpetrators, and here I will now specify that the monitoring issue is a very sensitive issue, on which many have lost their broadcasting licenses are performed by a machine and administrative technician, not experienced journalists who know the ethics of journalism. Question number five. It's not about the criteria applied. It was true that it was unique, but it was a subjective assessment of non-professional people who were evaluating the technical and financial programme. Besides, a financial ability assessment can only be done by financial police, not by a regulatory authority like the CIA. In answer to my question number six, I'm satisfied and my question number seven is again answered in general without substance. The hearing is that individual broadcasters can get anywhere and ever radio and TV channels without a single one, especially from a Serb entity, being able to do so. Not to engage now in how certain frequencies, co-ordinated in 1971 in Geneva, are derived from the Serb entity and assigned to Bosniak stations at the entity's border. With the answer to question number eight, I'm satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2712	4 Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. I'm calling Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2713	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all here. I asked the question I got the answer, I got it on record with the disputed session and I'm not satisfied. We know how all the records can be made and, therefore, I'm absolutely not satisfied with that deal that I got. I don't know if this written material, or the record, is adequate, is just a transcript that was recorded at the time of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2714	Thank you very much, Spajić. I'm calling Mr. Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2715	Dear Mrs Presidents, fellow envoys, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ladies and gentlemen of representatives of the international community, the means of public information, by welcoming you all together, I would like to say that I am as rarely satisfied with the answer to my question, in a substantial sense, because I am looking forward to the Council of Ministers' actual efforts to respond in the way that it could and as rarely when I am dissatisfied with the state, which is evident from the answers I have received. Because it is quite clear that not only is it unacceptable that after five and a half years, in fact today it is equal to five and a half years, that a dispute has been signed between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and it is unfortunately not ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. It is evident from the response that there are dissonant tones on the Council of Ministers' route, the Presidency, above all, it is evident from that protocol, which was made up by the Council of Ministers last summer, but unfortunately there have been some gaps and I appreciate that it is not good, it is not a good situation and it is not a good message and it is not a good activity, which should, first of all, be a solution to this problem that I have pointed to in the matter itself. I think we should have a platform based on which we will be dealing with the issues in principle with our neighbouring countries. This platform, with the participation of the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in its preparation, should be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is my view, especially in the level of the fact that we now have after the recent events and steps that the Republic of Croatia has taken towards European integration, one situation, and another situation when we have a question about our relationship with a country called Serbia-Montenegro. So if we had a certain platform, we should redefine it in a certain way in light of what I'm talking about. And if we had such a platform, then our public and we, the envoys, would know, for example, whether the recent public advances of individual officials around Luke Bar as alternatives to Lucy Ploče, the official position of BiH institutions or 5 that is only a personal public statement, which, of course, each individual has the right to either think or advocate such a commitment whether it is the personal thinking of individual politicians from the current government. Here, I would be pleased if this situation would be used to build a platform, a political platform, discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly and, based on which concrete authorities of the BiH state would be in charge, to implement the position of this same platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2716	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here, let's say, no more answers. Any questions? Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2717	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished fellow ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of the press, I would have one question that I would like to refer to the secretary of the House of People, or the College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The question is, what are they doing, or what are they going to do to detect responsible state officials in the secretariat, in the professional services of the Secretariat of the Plamentary Assembly and to determine their disciplinary, therefore, gleaning responsibilities for leaking information from professional services while preparing them for certain bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly? Namely, the work version of the investigation committee's report, which was founded by this house, which was given for typing, to be held at a session of the investigation committee, came this morning in a prominent weekly press release of BiH. Therefore, I request that, in accordance with the Decisions on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly and in accordance with the disciplinary measures prescribed for such matters, which are not appropriate for one Parliament, therefore, in accordance with the Internal Organisation Regulation and the internal organisation of the Secretariat, to establish responsible employees, whether these are civil servants or deputies of the Professional Service for this breach of the labour obligation, and if they are not able to establish this within 15 days or until the next session of the House of People, I ask the College of the House of People to propose measures to this House to the College of the Parliamentary Assembly in relation to this and earlier cases of leak of information from the professional services of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2718	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Osmane brkati, you answered, but you'll be back later. Mr. Šiljegović. Can't blame the quote this is a parliamentary question. You can answer with another question. There are no wrong allegations here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2719	6 Mr. Chairman, it is not in the form of a question, since I am the chairman of this investigation committee, to my misfortune, because I know how long it has been done in this committee, how many memos, or asked the required institutions at the level of the Federation and at the level of the BiH state, it is about one working version of the material, which was given to the translation and typing of the presidency for the reason I am chairing the Commission, I want it to be on Cyrillic, whether, I have the right and the Serbian language and which was to be shared with the members of the investigative commission, it was a collection of our observations through the contributions of materials, mine, Osman and Ilijin, and we have all collected it, and it is one version, which should have been discussed on the Commission's investigative committee and, here, here, I join with proposals from fellow Filipović, this is one ugly phenomenon, that any of the journalists would have asked it to be a very importantversion , and I would be the opinion of theCommission , and theCommission 'sopinion , andI 'sopinion , andI 'sopinion , andI 'll be verymuch . but it is an ugly phenomenon that has happened to us and in this direction I join the proposal and the request of my colleagueFilipović , that the College take certainmeasures.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2720	Thank you very much. Mr. brkati, you have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2721	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers, distinguished guests and gentlemen journalists, I have indeed come to the session here just now from colleagues Mr Filipović and Mr Šiljegović that there is some text in Free Bosnia. And, really, I was amazed, it's a work version, which I hadn't even had in my hands yet as a commission we didn't have in our hands, it's in the press. It is not yet known whether the members of the Commission will accept this work version or not accept it, either accept it in part or will not accept it, we do not know yet, because this review has not come to us completely, and that this leaks from Parliament, it is really not likely for me. This can't happen where services are serious and where serious people work, it's amazing and I want to correct Mr Filipović's wrong quote, it's his opinion that it's a respectable newspaper. In my opinion, it's a very unrespectable newspaper, which is very little read, because, right now, it has pamphlets, lies, denominations of people etc. I apologize to Mr Filipović, but not the newspaper.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2722	Thank you, Mr. Brki. Here, Mr. Hasan Čengić. Is that a delegate question?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2723	7 It is a complement to the delegate issue, i.e. to support the delegate issue that we have heard here. If you please, Mr. Chairman, first of all let me say hello. So, I welcome the House Presidency, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, presentations of the international community, public information and all those present, and I would like to say that I support this issue, because I think it is indeed finally time to try to understand whether we are a serious institution or something else. The reason why there is, moreover, the same newspaper and the same text contains another untruth like the Čengić truth, that I was a member of this commission, because I was simply not a member of the commission, and here it says that I was one of the most active members. By referring to an unnamed source, which may be and this report, or may not be, it may be that someone is dealing with the additions of these reports, which are being created here, and sending them somewhere further, may be some uglier things, which I would not want to set up right now, but I am convinced that we will have to ask whether, therefore, within this home and its professional and otherwise, there are people who do not work for Prlament, but work for someone else, who do not work professionally but counter-professionally, or, possibly, whether our rooms sound for the needs of some other institutions? I don't mean to mention it, but because this text contains a few sentences, which, in fact, are never officially spoken, and they appear here. So it's very serious things to get serious about. I think it's about time we got serious. I was the first to stay for the transparency of work. What I'm thinking is that we don't have to bother with any service or newspaper to find out what I think I'm saying very publicly. Therefore, they do not need to spend funds or knowledge to find out what I think. However, on the other hand, I believe that this institution, such as the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Peoples and its committees, must have a minimum level of protection and conditions to work legally, to work professionally and to exercise their views under the conditions of legality, professionality and freedom of action, as well as transparency. If someone thinks that this type of pressure and manipulation of the public and its privileged position in public access, through certain media, will exert additional pressure and power indirectly illegally, illegally and not publicly form public change and attitudes, both political institutions and judicial authorities, then they are wrong. We have had and have enough and feelings and self-esteem to defend our individual and collective freedoms and rights and, for this reason, I ask most seriously for this to finally be taken as a reason to clarify the behaviour of all within BiH institutions, and this time very concretely, therefore, services serving the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2724	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. The Secretary of the House of the Peoples also answered. Here you go, Mr. Tajniča.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2725	8 I would ask you to explain just a little bit, what you ask of the House of the People's Secretaries. I'm afraid, and the College of the Secretaries can't do some things, because it would come out of the scope of their domain. Here, as Mr. Čengić mentioned listening and all that, we can only see within the service which of the employees did, eventually, or did not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2726	Thank you very much. If we're going to respect Mr. Čengić's attitude and what he was saying, he's just saying that the secretariat is having fun drinking Mr. Filipović. Thank you very much. Do we have any further questions? Mr. Osman Brka has a business question, so here you go, delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2727	I have a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for the BiH Security Minister, for the Minister of Security of the Federation of BiH and for the Minister of Security of the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton. What did the authorities of those institutions do in detecting and punishing the perpetrators of the Bosniak children's stone, who were on a trip to Neum on 5.3.2004, during which Berina Hajdarević and Amila Šehović were injured, whose assistance was only shown in Mostar? I want an answer right now or at the first next session. This is very current, and we have these things happening to us, we forget them a little bit, and I wouldn't want to experience them, and I'm sure no one here is present, no BiH citizen to repeat the case that happened in Banja Luka three years ago, when the stoned Murat b... who died on that occasion and no one answered, here's some kind of rocking again. You know what it is. I'm asking the responsible services to file a report on what they've done. It didn't come from itself. Who's behind it, who's doing it, and what's been done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2728	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Here you go, Jadranko. I think we've exhausted this one, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2729	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues, guests, of the House Presidency, I ask the answer to the question. Who is responsible for the appearance of the Parliamentary Assembly and who should issue a warrant to remove the lock, chain and board from the left front door of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly building? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2730	Thank you very much. Are there any other colleagues who want to ask a question? I am going to appeal to the Council of Ministers on this occasion to update my work on answering delegate questions, because in truth there are many questions that we are waiting for a few months for a response 9 and it is the impression that ministers from the Council of Ministers do not want such co-operation with this House and I think it will be one of the important if this continues, that this will be one of the topics that this House will discuss, when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers. I'd like these colleagues to know this in the Council of Ministers, and we're really going to pay a little more attention to these answers and relations with the Council of Ministers in the coming period. Thank you very much. Ad.2. The record of the 22nd and 23rd sessions of the House of Peoples you received. Both minutes, since the congregations were held on short notices, both minutes were completed at the same time. I ask MPs if they have any objections to the minutes? As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a word. I'm putting it to the vote, or the adoption of the 22nd session minutes. Who's in? Who's for the 22nd session minutes? Thank you very much. So the minutes of the 22nd session were unanimously adopted. I now put the minutes of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples to vote. Who's on the record? Thank you very much. Are we unanimous? Thank you, colleagues. Ad.3. The balance of personnel in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina I expect a report from the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2731	Mr. Crescent. Ivan Ćosić Mr. Chairman, distinguished envoys, I am sorry that there is no expert today on the balance of staff in the ministries and other bodies of the BiH institution, which this house has been tasked by the Council of Ministers at its 20th session. I'm going to brief the reasons here, and I'm going to ask a respectable home to accept these reasons in advance, and that very soon, or very soon after the next Council of Ministers session, they're going to have complete information on this. Why? Namely, the Council of Ministers held at the 50th session of 15.4.O.G. is familiar with your conclusion and has reached its conclusions that have been made by the ministries and other bodies to deliver the full structure of national employees and systematicised posts in all ministries, or other bodies in BiH institutions by 25.4. It tasked the General Secretariat to coordinate these activities, i.e. that these ministries and institutions deliver up to 25.4. full information to the General Secretariat. But I regret to inform you that by that deadline no one had provided the necessary information and then I sent the ER to again by the 10th, leaving some objective deadline until 10th of this, delivering this information by, of course, this list that we made, by classifying civil servants and employees, referred advisors as an additional category in all these bodies. 10 How some have not delivered this information until the 10th time, and in order for it to be complete information in this home, the ultimate urgency has been delivered to us by the 14th time that all of us really have full responsibility and that these data be delivered to us and, here I know you that with the 14th of all institutions and bodies, i.e. the ministries we have received this information. Full information has been prepared, i.e. the realization of your conclusion, but you know that at the Council of Ministers meeting, the conclusions that are going towards this home and at the next session that will be next week will be on the agenda of the implementation, i.e. a report on the national structure and, as such, will be forwarded to this home and I hope that it will be included at the next session of your home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2732	Thank you very much. Here, colleagues, we heard the presentation of Mr. Ivan Ćosić, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, I apologize for missing the opportunity to announce the gentleman's name and last name before he left. Please respect your apology. I would now like to hear from my colleague Šiljegović, who, on the basis of a parliamentary or parliamentary question, has given his time to his business procedure the opportunity to make this a part of the assembly's agenda, because it is the College, the business procedure, and it is now on the agenda. We feel that the Council of Ministers has not arrived to prepare this within the deadline, and that 14 this month, or June.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2733	Let me explain. So, on 14 May, they delivered all the requested data and at the next session, next week, so by the end of the month, the Council of Ministers will establish information and deliver it to you, practically a session that will be held on 27 or 28 this month.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2734	Here, that the end of the month will be in the congregation on the agenda and we'll have a debate. I think this is one situation that can be appreciated. In front of the club, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2735	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we think that we should postpone this point for the next session, in order to get this material, we should analyse it and discuss it more in quality for the debate at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2736	11 Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Ćengić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2737	Mr. Chairman, I have to say I'm sorry that we don't have a chance to talk about this today and I'm sorry that we haven't been able to get all the material. Of course, I believe that this is an important issue and not a question about who the problem should be, but that we should consider it in order to continue to resolve further, in order to ensure the application of the Constitution, therefore, constitutionality in this area, the application of the law and the implementation of the agreement. Still, I'd like to understand one thing again before we come to the session to discuss it. I would ask the honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers to take a good look at how point three is defined for today. This is the balance of staff in BiH institutions, in other words, including the national composition of personnel in BiH institutions, which, therefore, implies the Council of Ministers of the BiH institutions, including the Directorate for indirect taxation of both the SIP and the DGS and the BiH Presidency and the Central Bank of BiH and the courts and the Prosecutor's Office and the CRA, in other words, I would ask that we understand, therefore, all those who are budgetary users, so that we do not come into a situation to discuss ourselves in a partial manner again, to talk about the Justice Ministry again, for example. and we don't have the Treasury Ministry to talk about the Council of Ministers, who, after all, communicates with us most often and communicates most, without having information about another institution, which is the BiH institution. I would, however, take this opportunity to ask the Council of Ministers to give us a much shorter, simpler, but precise information on the state of statistics and data on this issue. In other words, I will invite all my colleagues to remember or recall when we discussed the Budget, and I have asked the number of employees in the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the number of people on the payroll exactly that day. I didn't get an answer to explain that there was no such answer at that time, no available etc. We also said that the vault pays that the vault has a list, so there's something wrong. I'm interested in something else here now, so I'd like to ask you to fill us in on this report with another piece of information. In what way personal and human data are kept in institutions and what seems to be, what is it or is it anything that this part of the issue is automated, that is to prepare certain software, which would be the basis of the database for what we are talking about. Clearly, if there was such a thing as a perception that it wouldn't take us a month or seven days, but probably as much as it takes for a printer to print existing data. If that is not the case, I would ask my colleagues to then agree that at the next session, discussing this issue which is definitely very important, so we should also discuss this, perhaps seemingly technical issues, but important issues of support for the work of institutions and better quality information equipment, or statistical and information equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2738	12 Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I think we've exhausted this answer, too. I am pleased that the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers has heard directly how MPs imagine, or imagine that report, that report, and I hope that this House will receive the desired response within the deadline, and now I will ask my colleagues to remove this item of the agenda, and to postpone it for the next assembly, i.e. to wait for the Council of Ministers' materials. I have to ask my colleagues now something, since we've given a little more assignments to explain a little more wishes than it was with a previous request to be tolerated, so let's say that the Council of Ministers in a short, possibly shorter time... expanded this into one I'd say a more quality way of asking this to be processed and I think it's okay that we don't stumble on these problems, we have a lot of others. So here we are voting for this agenda point to be son from today's session and put on a session when the Council of Ministers prepares information on all budget users? Here you go, Minister. Please, let's hear from the secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2739	I'm sorry, but let me just formulate it. All budget users, however, the Council of Ministers as one of the executive authorities, means and to the general government one of the authorities, I don't think they can take over, or get such a commitment to be responsible for perhaps the data that, here, take it, you need to deliver. It would be a little illogical for you to provide us with this information to inform you. Or an independent judiciary and independent bodies formed in this way. So stick to this executive power, here is Mr. Niko's deputy minister of justice and whether in this meaning the judiciary and the prosecution are involved in that part of the Council of Ministers can fully respond and this task is already ahead of us and can be very slow this time. So not all budget users because a little, my suggestion can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2740	Thank you very much, Mr. Čosić. Here's Čengić. There's this vault that's with you for all of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2741	So it's not a matter of vaults, it's a question of each other. This is the House of the People of the Parlamentary Assembly and this institution approves of the budget. This institution has an obligation to lead the general policy and to follow the general policy and we want to discuss a question called staff policy within the general policy. In order to discuss this, we need complete data. If, for some technical reasons, the Council of Ministers considers that it cannot conceal certain data then it can do so to the College of this House. 13 However, I do not see any reason why the Council of Ministers could not address all the institutions, and especially the judicial one, with a request for such information to be forwarded to the Council of Ministers or to the Parliamentary Assembly for discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly. So in that part it's not any pressure on the court, it's not interference in the work of the court. It's another question and we have the right and we need to have it as information so we can discuss it. If we don't have that part of the information, we don't have all the information and we can't have the whole idea, so we can't even have a quality and valid discussion about it. So if there are problems, I do not see any problems that even the professional services of the Parliamentary Assembly deliver to you for unification. But if this is a technical problem then professional services can deliver to the House, the judicial authorities can deliver to the House, I say to me, I see no problem here, because it is in no way a meddling in the work of anyone, and the other parties in technical and operational terms still have the funds collected through the Council of Ministers and therefore distribute to the users budget. Therefore, it would be perfectly natural for all these budget users to deliver this information. I'm closing up. If there are any technical problems, then instead I ask the House College of the House to see, in cooperation with the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, who needs to be referred such a question in order to obtain full information. Without such information, this kind of debate is essential and very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2742	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Gospidin Čosić asked him to say something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2743	No, I didn't think he had a problem, or that he was running away from that assignment, but I'm saying that the Council of Ministers can't be held responsible if one of the other authorities doesn't provide information in terms of demand and execution until the end of your position. In that context. And the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which is where the data is, look out, we can't talk about the status of those who receive certain fees. This may be a working relationship salary, it may be a contractual relationship, etc., so for this reason it denies the possibility, these data are credible in terms of employment, meaning both the total number and the national structure. Here, thank you very much. And just so you know, the Department of Justice is under way with the collection of data from these judicial institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2744	Thank you very much, Mr. Čosić. Mr Niko Grubešić, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2745	14 I thank and greet all those present. So just to be clear, this is what the secretary general was talking about. So the question arises, in fact, whether it makes sense for the Council of Ministers to ask both homes of professional services for the structure when the House can get it, they are certainly services in the function of the home. So in that sense. And second, I ask the question, can the Council of Ministers actually ask the Presidency? That is why I propose that this House be directly asked by the Presidency, by the professional services of the Houses, by the national structure of staff in the Presidency and by the professional servants of the Parliamentary Assembly. And as for the judicial authorities, if I'm not mistaken, Mr Limov has asked a question, it seems to me, if I'm good at showing employment in judicial authorities throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, so from judges and prosecutors to other staff by courts and the Ministry of Justice collects that information. When we collect that data, and you must admit that it is a big job, when we gather, we will present this national structure of employees in judicial bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2746	Thank you, Mr. Grubišić. Mr. Limov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2747	Just so there's no dilemma, this is about the wrong quote. I didn't ask this. It doesn't matter, but let him register.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2748	Thank you very much. I mean, let's get out of this. I think the Council of Ministers will take part, like, I will now tell the operational body of the Assembly that because it controls the vault completely, it is in its composition to make a quality report and deliver it to the Assembly. Who's in? Who's up for taking this off the agenda? That's what we vote on and put on the next session. Thank you very much. So unanimous. Mr. Secretary, Secretary General, thank you for this explanation. I think we're both here and this is some kind of solution. However, it would be really instructive for the Council of Ministers to definitely understand that it should, or must co-operate with this assembly. Thank you very much. The fourth item of the agenda is 15 A.4. We have a plan for the Bosnia and Herzegovina's headquarters. Do we have it here, Mr. Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2749	I thought, Mr. President, that the Council of Ministers would say something in a sense that encouraged us and that this issue would solve and that we would finally get that plan. However, I also counted on this variant that the Council of Ministers did not say anything, so I prepared only a few introductory notes, estimating that from today on, this house will only give the Council of Ministers a certain way and help him in this regard, as we helped him with the adoption of certain legal projects up to the hour, and to put this problem in a way that things would be principled and the well-being of all those dealt with. So, as you remember at our 16th session in December last year, I asked the Council of Ministers if there was a plan for the schedule of Bosnia and Herzegovina's headquarters to be established and I then said in the next three years and of course I didn't get an answer. Maybe the deadline itself was pretentious, maybe it's too long for this council of ministers, but in any case, here's what I'd be happy about, and I believe all of us if we had a plan for the next 40 days or maybe 60 that we have left to set up those 22, I think 22 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the new institutions, and that's in this bulletin of the European Integration Directorate, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore, except by giving my personal support to this directive to help us in a certain way and by publishing such materials. I will remind you, distinguished colleagues that I have received a certain answer in connection with the headquarters of institutions from which it is evident that from 42 to now established state institutions for them 39 is based in Sarajevo, for 2 in Banja Luka and for one therefore Derk in Tuzla. Of course, I will not dismember Sarajevo, because you yourself know that the Constitutional Court's position on this issue is well known, although here is the joke on the side, so one is the only institution in Serbia's Sarajevo and the other 38 is its headquarters in Sarajevo. Almost doesn't need to be wasting words on commenting on this data in particular. When you talk to the envoys, or responsible officials, regardless of whether it's paint politicians or those in power, about the need and the definition that in a rational plan and political wise way, the decentralisation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone or almost everyone will say they are. But when specific solutions are proposed that the headquarters of an institution should be outside Sarajevo, especially if it is Mostar, then there is a real drama and there are certain activities to block it out in a certain way. Of course, let anyone experience this as they wish, but the fact that no state institution in that part of our country has its headquarters talking about the need to invest in order and take appropriate action in one plan and rational way. 16 When the Council of Ministers gets a chance to implement the commitment, then he, as a rule, does it upside down. I'll iznjetati my assessment very freely, and based on the fact that for me it's upside down if we have an institution that works here in Sarajevo, if it's a representative state institution, then they divide it into three parts, I mean the Institute of Measurement, Standards and Intellectual Property. I think that's the wrong approach, and that's why I suggested that we first adopt certain criteria, and secondly, on the basis of these criteria, we make a plan, respecting this commitment. The problem is precisely because there is no such thing as no criteria and no plan. We even have a practice in which, come on, I'll say, and it deliberately skips to introduce the headquarters of a certain institution into the law. Although we know it will be in Sarajevo and should be mindful of the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, there is therefore an apparent failure to enter the seat. In my opinion, it's unnecessary, because I guess there's enough understanding that it really needs to be in Sarajevo. At least that's how I think she should be in Sarajevo. The first thing to agree on here is number three. – decentralisation is not Bosnia and Herzegovina through 3. That's my understanding. For me, the process of decentralisation is actually an introduction to the regionalisation of our country, and I see its future here, because it will benefit all of us from the regionalisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a European trend and I think it is in our interest to identify ourselves as soon as possible for concrete activities in this direction. So that's why I'm going to put this number 3 aside and think about decentralisation, we're going to run those criteria that will allow us, first of all, to see all the advantages of such an organization and if we have clear criteria and we know what we want, then the matter of technique will be how we make it into laws, I don't know in the Constitution, etc. The other thing I want to say and that can also be one of the criteria for drawing up this plan, for me it is very important not to touch the existing institutions that work. Well, that's an important criterion for me. If they are not sufficiently Bosnian Herzegovic, and the questions from the previous point are motivated by the very feeling that these institutions are not in this respect sufficiently Bosnian Herzegovic, if they are not as we have said balanced, etc. Let's make them. And it is we in the House of Nations who are obliged to take steps and ask others to do concrete activities in this direction. The third criterion, though important, can be and the first one, otherwise I have no tendency to talk about the systematic and way of making it the overall content of the possible criteria to be managed by the Council of Ministers in drawing up this plan, but in such a complex state as ours, a very important criterion is that no matter where the institution is based, it must be so structured that it is truly Bosnian Herzegovic. I think it's a very important criterion, because if we opt for one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be the headquarters of an institution, the structure must be Bosnia and Herzegovina's, not the end. This is actually what will represent the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in all the parts where we will deploy these institutions. 17 The fourth criterion of course can be the nature of the institution itself, the content of its action, the geographical criterion, the infrastructure, the human potential, so human potential, etc. It's very clear what you're thinking. And the fifth criterion should be and I will say this very clearly the nature of the position of the city of Sarajevo as the capital of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see any reason not to pass the law on the capital of our country. We don't know who, who can question the need, when we do, when we define it, then of course, because we know the standard criteria according to which in the capital should be what the representation is to say, what goes next to the capital. I have already said that I did not have any pretentious efforts, not even trying systematically to set this up, but just as one material that could possibly be respected by the Council of Ministers, because, above all, those as executives are obliged to propose solutions to the Parliamentary Assembly in this regard. That is why I will, and in order not only to end up in the interview today, propose one very, one single, so in my opinion, a concrete and acceptable conclusion based on which we will lead further activity in this regard. Otherwise, I think when it comes to what happened before, I didn't want to answer, because I'm sure I'll do it when there's a debate on this issue. We need to talk about this in the vault, and I'm sure there are no questions that we, if we put in proper efforts, can't be solved in a quality way that will answer to everyone. I suggest, Your Honor, Mr. President, the next conclusion. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers to submit a plan to the BiH newly established institutions' headquarters within 30 days, taking into account the current schedule of state synergy seats and taking into account the commitment to the implementation of the process of decentralisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you, Mr. President, to put and open the possibility with any other proposals that will be crystallized in the debate itself, that is to say, allow the envoys to come forward with this conclusion. I hope, of course, that he will get support because it would have the power to commit the Council of Ministers, and eventually, if he is able to, but that he has his own vision of this issue and that he should bring forward the dilemmas, and then we will work together towards concrete solutions, that is, one strategy in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2750	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. In any case, the MPs' proposals will always be put in a position to vote on them, he declares. But we must hear others. I'm calling. Who answered the word? Dr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2751	18 Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I was just about to support Mr. Lim's discussion in full. However, he said a few things that I might not agree with so that I support his discussion in most parts, and I think that what he suggested is necessary to do, that the Council of Ministers should make a plan and schedule of seats according to the number of institutions that should be formed and all the problems we encounter during the formation of these institutions and see that even now some laws, the adoption of some laws, are late for problems around the seat. And given the complexity of the selection of seats, all of these criteria that Mr. Limov mentioned, I think they stand, so that means most of the time I agree with his discussion and I support the conclusion in most of what I don't think we should be in one part where it's said -- taking care of the seat of the present one, I think that's one of the criteria. It means that we don't just point out that criterion and maybe say taking care of all the criteria and everything. Mostly not only to potentiate the seat of the present. It means that we take into account all these criteria that Mr. Limov listed and that a schedule of the headquarters of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is made. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2752	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Jukić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2753	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, guests, journalists, ladies and gentlemen. This is a really very important topic, and I think it should have been a point of the agenda or a topic on our home, because you will remember that at least so far there have been three or four times exactly the issue of the headquarters of an institution, the issues in which we have spent a lot of time agreeing, talking, trying to gain, reaching agreements or a solution that is acceptable. This fact and otherwise the fact that at least in the talks that I heard, I understood that a certain decentralisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the headquarters of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, is needed on the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For these reasons, and for reasons of the need for a politrical reason consistent with the reasons of all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other reasons that Mr Limov and Mr Radovanović cited, therefore this is necessarily necessary to do, because here today is also on the agenda one law which is also one of the amendments that has been invested, was precisely on the issue of the seat. I know that this question is not simple and the approach to this question must indeed be responsible and must be seen from all aspects, because if there are, and everywhere there are many and subjective, then certainly this subjective element is very present, because there is no one sitting here who would not find any arguments and well explained to them that some of the institutions should be in exactly one part of where the advocate comes from, which is quite normal, which is quite natural and what is expected. And everyone who talks about it is certainly a good part and right, but that is why it is necessary in a real debate and with a lot of arguments to fix the proposal of 19 institutions and then to do it in a quality way and not to have any more issues, or at least not to be the dominant issue of the seat in some law. And it is not a good practice for the seat not to be defined in the law but to be left to it, with all due respect to the Council of Ministers, but it should be written in a law which justifies a certain institution, etc. I don't think it's a good practice and that it should mean installing it in the law, and thus the Council of Ministers shall, in accordance with this conclusion, make a schedule, a proposal or a schedule for the seat of newly formed institutions as soon as possible. I don't know if it's a deadline, it seems to me that Mr. Limov put on 30 days, maybe that deadline is small and short, but I wouldn't strictly tie it to that deadline in a sense, but let it be done as soon as possible. I think the time limit may be 1.5 means up to 45 days real, but here I am also supporting this 30-day deadline. Here's a thank you. I didn't say anything new. I give means again I invite all of us to be unique and that perhaps with some details, I don't know either, Mr. Limov may have said some formulations or that have little and political connotations. It does not need to be too attached to this, I think that this conclusion is good in its essence and that it is clear, and the explanation is not the most important and there will be an opportunity when we get this material, or plan to distribute the seats of the new institutions the opportunity to talk about it and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2754	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. As I recall, Hasan Čengić was answering for his word. Are you staying in the belief that you should talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2755	If I get the word, Mr. Chairman, I think I should speak. And if I don't get it, it can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2756	You got your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2757	So, by joining the evaluations that this is an important issue, and by joining the evaluations that there is a need to try to ensure as much understanding and full consent as possible, I want to say the following. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are an important part of what we call the state as a whole, and in terms of presentation or representation both within and outside what the state is recognised and seen first and foremost. In this regard, I think it is possible to talk very seriously and broadly and reasoned on all the criteria and standards of all the principles that are needed and must be respected in order to achieve a quality attitude and a good assessment of what it is. 20 On the other hand, before any statement of criticism, and for criticism there is room, the current state of affairs should be taken into account that certain circumstances, therefore, both the legal and historical sequence of events, have affected that a significant number of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions have been located in Sarajevo, according to the fact that Sarajevo Constitution is designated as the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the fact that a series of institutions there operate, established before the war, during the war, or right after the war, etc. What is important in my opinion is that we should take care of the realities, which is the establishment of each new institution and the provision of certain means. We know that we need to secure these funds ourselves, so through the budget, and we know that in this sense we have to act as rationally as possible to get into a situation where we don't spend unnecessary money that we don't have or need anyway, and we can use it better for development, employment, etc. In that sense, I think we need to be very rational and very objective, that a number of factors that limit the possibility of dispersion of institutions. On the other hand, there is no dilemma that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state of all its citizens and peoples, that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state should and must feel and be present at every square metre of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, that the presence of certain institutions in some area is even more stressed by that fact. However, I would not like to bring here indirectly from this debate the impression that someone has already had an attitude or had some, some premeditation to exclude some parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the presence of state institutions. From the statistics we heard from Mr Limov, it could be concluded that Sarajevo was absolutely favored, and Mostar was absolutely excluded, so it was not neglected but excluded. I would, however, like to remind myself that Mostar is the seat of significant federal institutions that are not insignificant, which are important, which are part of the state structure and which, in my opinion, is more important than that, which shows willingness and openness to such a relationship. So constitutive peoples and those who inside represent certain political views. In that sense, there is no dilemma that this is necessary in the future. On the other hand, I would ask that we take care not to politicise this problem negatively, but rather to deal with a positive policy. Why do I say we don't politicize negatively? If we count the number of institutions in Sarajevo, as many in Banja Luka and as many in Mostar, and even in the western part of Mostar, then it's one politicization for me and for the reason I think the same thing can be talked about in another way. For example. I think it would be very useful for some state institutions to have a seat, for example. in Drava, Gorazd and Orasje, as undeveloped municipalities and environments, which, for example, from the presence of such institutions could have not only some psychological and political but also a purely economic benefit which is absolutely important and which should be taken into account. On the other hand, I think that we should bear in mind the fact that decentralisation can also be used in two senses in a positive sense when it comes to preventing the concentration of government in one institution or one person or one space, this time perhaps in one city and on the other side when this so-called. decentralisation is actually used for some kind of possibility for someone to think it's about decentralisation to some level of decommissioning of the state. We have to take care of fact 21 that we're all talking today about being so decentralised that we can't pay for it. That's what we all say. And we are talking about the need to establish central institutions of the state that will function normally, efficiently and primarily rationally from the dreams of funding, i.e. costing. Having therefore all of this in mind and without any desire to politicise in any direction, I believe it is necessary to further discuss this issue and make political decisions for the Council of Ministers to carry out one analysis and to prepare certain proposals. I must admit that I cannot agree with the formulation of counterpart Lim in which he said we should go towards the process of decentralisation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that this is more of a consequence of perhaps a lack of good language definition than its political stance or, in particular, the position of its political party in the sense that we are going further decentralisation. So I think we should go, so I think we should go further into the operationalisation of the efficiency of state institutions and the establishment of the necessary state institutions. In that sense, I have the conclusion, therefore, that I have a proposal which, in part, only differs from Mr Lim, in particular, I would like to say that the largest number of his principles, i.e. the criteria he mentioned, which should be respected in the decision-making process on how to deploy the institution's seat, I support and I believe that they are justified and reasonable, but I suggest that the conclusion that today we should make known in this way - be asked by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take into account, within 60 days, this objectively this deadline is relatively short to prepare and propose within 60 days to Parliament's Assembly of preparations and to propose the principles and criteria for the schedule of Bosnia and Herzegovina's headquarters, taking into account the current state of affairs, the status of Sarajevo as the capital, on economic and regional criteria.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2758	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić, if you're done. Mr. Limov is a replica. That's right. Here you go. I think it's also good, you're totally on the trail.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2759	Just an explanation. So, the esteemed Mr. Čengić understood the formulation of decentralisation. He dropped part of my discussion in which I made it clear that it was a decentralisation of the institution's headquarters and I said that no matter where it was, every institution must be Bosnian Herzegovic. That's what matters. So in this sense, decentralisation, not disenfranchisement, and I have well emphasized the existing institutions, new institutions, etc. I think that in this respect, if it is necessary to intervene in relation to the text and the level of what my colleague Radovanović was talking about, here I leave it to the president to formulate a conclusion that will be acceptable to everyone. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2760	I'm sorry, please. What now? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2761	So, I'll wait for my colleague, I'll wait for Lim's colleague to hear me, I'm very glad that now with his clarification he's actually confirmed that when it comes to the essence of his idea to agree on the essence. However purely for technical correctness, I will read what I have recorded from his discussion, he has at one point proposed, directly suggesting the conclusion that this should be done to lead the process of decentralisation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the conduct of the decentralisation process. So that's what, but with this explanation that I've just heard, I think we're totally in agreement and I'm totally with this attitude so we can talk about decentralisation of the seat or the different schedule of the headquarters of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2762	I concluded that there would be no more replicas, because roughly in shades a small difference only in shades. Mr. Radovanović is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2763	I just want to say about the subject, I think it's clear and it's about decentralisation of the seat, or dispersion of the seat. That's how I understood it. Maybe the lapus was linguistic, but I think they understood everything essentially. I would suggest that we get these conclusions in writing before and before the adoption, so that we can eventually correct and complete these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2764	Thank you very much. He answered the word, I'll suggest something else, that the conjecturers, let's take a break, so, please, I haven't finished the thought of Hasana, when it's time, so that the conjecturers make one consultation and that what's common is that we try to make a quality joint conclusion that will be useful to everyone. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija called. Hilmo. Thank you very much. [[Common discussion]] Please. I'm sorry to hear from Hilma Neimarlija. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2766	Dear Presidency, colleagues, guests, I will spare you today my reasons and arguments that I was going to present in favour of the importance of this issue of defining Bosnia and Herzegovina's headquarters outside the capital. I have, just to say, I had in mind to develop that argument on the line of one requirement that I expect us to put ourselves here and accept it, which is to go over or admit that we have passed that one barrier of feudal or feudal perception of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that one of us can be better if one of us is worse, or possibly the same as he was. I do, and this takes into account one of the necessary serious debates about how we will finally convince ourselves that we have come forward, and here I am marking them by the feudal concept of things in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the sense that someone can be better off if the other one is going to be worse. That's one thing. So I'm saying vice versa that we can all, only together, be better, or worse, of course. So, in addition to the importance of this issue, I understand very serious, very important, important. The second is the relationship of the country and the state. I would just remind you without any intention to politicise this, 20 years ago, not today, but 20 or 30 years ago, all of us sitting here have different political views on some very important issues beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina were countrymen. I remind you, it's a social fact, not a political one we were all countrymen. I was thinking of also developing an argument on that line. I'll spare you, I'll talk about it when we get a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and then I'll state the reasons why I keep important and the need to define myself, to set ourselves up for the capital, because I consulted, let's say, I've checked the situation, we'll bring the data to the headquarters next time, say in three, here in the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria and Switzerland all state institutions are crucial, all the state institutions of the executive government, the legislative authorities, the representative authorities are in the capitals. They're not in Germany, of course, because they're only in Berlin or Bon, because they're moving. And which institutions are outside the capitals can be discussed. But that's what I'd be talking about next time. Now, in the interest of simplification, the precision of actually happy seems to me, I hope that my colleague Limov, too, will understand me, as well as my colleague Radovanović, I suggest the next conclusion as some kind of maybe precision of what it was that I understood the intensity of the conclusion that my colleague LImov made, and that would be in some way...with what Col. Čengić read as his proposal conclusion. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina recommends that the Council of Ministers establish and establish criteria for determining the headquarters of newly established institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina outside the capital, taking into account political, social and economic and functional actors. And based on these criteria, I think it implies that you set criteria and based on these criteria, then get involved and then the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2767	24 I would ask you, that this conclusion, which I consider to be very serious, is what we are about to put on, and I would like to hear from my fellow Neimarlija, and that we all hear from each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2768	It seems like we all agree that this is the right question for us to determine about him. I would like to appeal to my colleague Radovanović, that we, however, remain in this position to establish the criteria, to give us the criteria. We're MPs. And I think we have a duty to set ourselves up according to the criteria, because ultimately the executive power has the right to respect its criteria, for example, economics. We have an obligation to respect political and social ones. The Council of Ministers wants economics, it is his obligation and the need to be economically, so to speak. It is our need to preserve political, social and other dimensions. Science, for example, needs these functional arguments. I would include science, as we have now respected on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, over these little unfortunate solutions. We've opened the question, so we can respect it. Would you like to learn that this functional criterion, which is not harmless people, given everything, I was talking about poverty and wealth. I did not want to include now the question of science and the best social, economic and political intentions, so I would ask that we respect the importance of this issue for a whole series of other issues that are being raised in our relationship with the current political, social, economic and whatever reality you want, and that the Council of Ministers prepares the criteria for us to identify ourselves and then give, to commit the Council of Ministers to, on the basis of these criteria that we will adopt the plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2769	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2770	I'm so glad to see that we've taken this seriously to the problem. As for the proposal of fellow Neimarlija, there is no dilemma I accept, with that, if we can agree to recommend instead of words, because they are our executive, obliged, that we commit them. Anything else like you said you can repeat the conclusion and I appreciate Mr. President, before we break, we can come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2771	Thank you very much. Mr. Spasojević came forward for his word. He wants to get consent from the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2772	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, listening to this item on the agenda, I didn't think to answer, but as some MPs speak nicely, I had to say a few words. You know, all this is well told, but the numbers are inexorable. What Mr Limov 38 institutions have said so far in Sarajevo, two institutions in Banja Luka, one institution in Tuzla, and there is nothing left. Now, if you take some criteria to discuss how we came to this, why like this, I'll find ten criteria that's all good that these 38 institutions are in Sarajevo, and the others are gone, I'll find a reason that's ideal and that's the way it is and I'll find the reasons, if you want ten why you shouldn't be so, to be almost all institutions in Sarajevo, but if I go now for a broader explanation, and I don't think that's the problem. In my opinion, what Mr. Limov was saying about decentralisation, we are, however, BiH, a specific state in some way. It's made up of two entities, at least for now and three people. So it's according to the Constitution as defined so far. It may later be defined differently and will likely think differently about centralised, or decentralisation. I think that, as a young country, it is now coming to seize all power in one place, because it is the only way that it can effectively manage, but later development of this country itself, if it comes to it that it really develops as many would like, it won't be able to be so centralized. It was, I'll remind you it was centralised, the Soviet Union was so centralized that it was all necessary as one says, but in time it won't be able to withstand both social and economic conditions will dictate that one part of the institutions will have to go, that dispersion is done to other parts, what Mr. Neimarlija was saying that one will be rich, another way of living in Sarajevo as one developed environment in relation to some small undeveloped place, or less developed and less important. So I can't agree that this is the conclusion that we're starting in the middle of Wednesday, so some institutions are already formed, they've got their seat, and now in the middle of the race we want to say now the race is starting. We can't do that. One of them has already moved 200, 300 meters, 500, and now I'm starting from the starting position and I can never reach those who have already moved a mile in the run. So in this conclusion, it should cover all existing institutions that are there and institutions that are still being planned, and then, based on this comprehensive conclusion, we have some sort of timetable for what kind of institutions would be. As for the comparison that this is, this is the state that Mr Neimarlija spoke in Germany and all others, however, Germany is Germany and BiH is BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2773	Thank you very much. Mr. Radovanović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2774	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we've come to be able to bring an end to the conclusion. I would suggest, fully agree with Mr. Hilmo's proposal to lay down the criteria for us, means that the Council itself does not do so, and that I would suggest that we also ask the Council of Ministers to make a proposal for criteria and that we conduct a debate on it and I would suggest that, as short as possible, we make a deadline for the Council to make those criteria, and I don't think that it should be longer until the next session, or 15 days, so that, because we have other jobs ahead, on the basis of these criteria, 26, we make a seat plan, so that I don't think it would be quite enough for the next 15 days, or until the next session of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2775	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2776	So I think we're just about to make a statement and speaking now just about the conclusion, nothing else, accepting what's been said so far about the conclusions, I think we're close to focusing on the proposal, on Mr Neimarlija's proposed conclusion proposal. If we agree on that, I'm willing to withdraw my proposal in full and thus help to get rid of it. There is only one small dilemma left for me, two dilemmas, so when it comes to the deadline, then I would rather accept the deadline proposed by Mr. Limov. When it comes to these proposals of conclusions, which Neimarlija was making, let's set a 30-day deadline. And, secondly, when it comes to what we now have according to the vjeće of Ministers according to my notes so far, it is recommended that Mr. Neimarlija, bound by Mr. Limov, for Mr. Radovanović, I suggested asking. If any of these conclusions could be my suggestion, I suggest you be looking, because maybe it's in the middle between these views and I think we should get to the bottom of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2777	I'm not proposing Hassan's proposal. I say the Council of Ministers is bound and I think it's the Assembly and the sea. Please, he answered the word Mr. Jukić and I hope that after this end, we will make one quality and one good formulation and vote for it. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2778	I think it would be best if now, if the debate was over, and it seems to me that it is over, not to say now about the text of our conclusion, but to make a commitment, I don't know, here are three of our colleagues that they try to make a joint conclusion and that they finely write it on paper during the break that will follow, it seems to me in half an hour, and then we continue for a while, when we can make a quality statement about the text of this conclusion, however, it is very important and should not be improvised in a way that now that when we have heard something, we have not heard anything, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2779	I suggest that Mr. Neimarlija, Mr. Radovanović and Mr. Limov try to formulate this conclusion as soon as possible, taking care of 27 of these discussions, making sure that you, as far as I can see and agree as promoters and that you formulate that conclusion so that you can take it to the vote. We will therefore, with your permission certainly move to the next item of the agenda, excuse me, the next item of the agenda cannot or without Lim, because he, excellent. Radovanović, please be my guest with Neimarlija, because Mr Limov has agreed in advance with your views. Thank you very much. The next item of the agenda is, in our agenda, item 5 of the agenda. Ad.5. Information on the fate of 46 children of children of the children's home "Ljubica Ivezić" from Sarajevo to Italy in 1992 This point of the agenda was adopted on request, placed on the agenda at the request of Mr Lim, and based on the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, because Mr Limov of the Council of Ministers did not receive an answer to his parliamentary question. Limov, look, you didn't get an answer to your parliamentary question from the Council of Ministers, and then the Rules of Procedure gave him the right to put this on the agenda as a part of the agenda and to discuss it. In that sense this point is put on the agenda, and here, Mr. Limov will speak, because this is in the spirit of our Rules of Procedure and that's what we had to put on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2780	Dear Mr. President, fellow Members, I hear a comment...the matter, as far as I'm concerned, I can prepare the material, and I suggest that we put ourselves in trouble today and agree on a way to keep track of the developments in the continuity, given that you will see from my opening notes, which, of course, wishes to be something longer, just as colleagues formulate this conclusion and I will, of course, propose a number of possible conclusions on this agenda point, I have, of course, conclusions in written form prepared. As for the material itself, it's up to you, you define yourself, I can make available, so we'll see about the decision-making, any statement, etc. We'll make a deal, because you'll see from the exposed that there are needs, and I'd say we have an obligation to deal with this problem seriously. However, in normal situations among responsible people, there are things about which with little goodwill, regardless of all differences between us, nationality, political commitment, very easily reach consensus, achieve, and so I say, consensus or preferred to say unanimity. It's a question of children. I think we just need a little bit of work in us, humanity, solidarity, humanity and responsibility to ourselves and our children so we can figure out people who have lost their children for the past 12 years. I think of the people of BiH, but also of all people across the globe, who today survive a fate similar to ours, neither guilty nor indebted to the rule are children. 28 Since I asked my parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and the colleagues of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, about the fate of a group of children taken to Italy in 1991, I have often asked myself a question, is it possible that I will be left without an answer, or that the most responsible officials will not answer me anything. Unfortunately, it turned out as well as possible. Now the new questions are logical, in style, why it's like that, what's behind it, etc. But I'm not going to lead my presentation in that direction, but I'm going to tell you distinguished colleagues, I'm going to say, tax and rather chronologically, to remind you of some of the details, which may be relevant to the conclusion of each of you in the integrity of the picture that we understand this problem. Otherwise, about this problem of this group of 46 children of protégés dom Ljubica Ivezić, taken to Iali in 1992, it is possible to write whole books and I appreciate that the following is necessary in order to conduct the debate and to take appropriate views. First, in war madness on 17 July 1992, on the basis of the approval of all then relevant state bodies, 46 children of children of children of the Children's Home Ljubica Ivezić from Sarajevo were taken to Italy in addition to others. Second, the children in question accepted the municipality of Milan and placed them in two centers under the auspices of the Catholic Church, one in the name of Igea Marina, next to Rimini and the other in Monca, where the youngest group of children is located. Thirdly, on the occasion of taking to Italy, children were three to 13 years old and were mostly healthy children, mostly well - known parents, who for various reasons were unable to properly care for children, but their parental right was never taken away and if it is necessary to say that children were taken to Italy without parental consent, which can be justified by the war hell that was in Sarajevo at the time. In this group, for example, only one man had his own four children. His wife died right after the fourth child was born. This man, as a fighter of Arbia BiH, his commanders used to tell only you to go to the army and defend Bosnia, and when we defend the state will bring your children back. It was probably the commander of some Hercegovac, while he said he was defending Bosnia, a joke aside, it's a serious problem. The fourth thing to take care of, to be taken into account. From a letter from the BiH Consulate in Milan, ricket Muhamed Kreševljaković, as of 11 July 1996, is a very certain scenario, conditionally speaking the Italianisation of a third group of Bosnian Herzegovina children, although I believe there are children in other countries of Europe, and possibly still. Because you don't know, I also asked this question to try to get an answer to it. 29 Fifth, I shall give a concise example, of an eleven-year-old boy who is just as old as the girl, so both born in 1996, from which he is white as the fate of the other children. On 14 May 1997, a court for minors in Milan in writing asked BiH authorities to hear parents and answer certain questions, in order to carry out a adoption procedure in Italy. What, therefore, the BiH authorities, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and, in 1997, therefore, after the Dayton Agreement corresponds, I don't know, and does it even fit? If judging by the fact that the Court made a decision to adopt those children, they were then 10 in 11 years of life. The Italian law says that it is not possible to do so without previously filled out forms, questionnaires, or statements of biological parents. I've got these forms, I've had a chance to read, I'm not going to bother you with what's in them right now. I can make them available, I have copies of the forms. I don't have what's important, and that's what I asked myself, and I don't have an answer to any questions as to whether the procedure has been conducted or if someone has failed. I must say on this occasion that in the case of this group of children, everyone has their own story, Italian rule, Bosnian Herzegovic power, cantonal power, the rule of the city of Sarajevo, adoptors, parents of children and the entire public. This is a school example of how the path to hell can be paved by even good intentions, I don't doubt the good intentions of 1992, to help children, but their destiny confirms that, I've done a good look, I have a Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in my hands. In this Convention, content seems to have been written for this group of children. The following articles have been broken: 5,7,8,9,10, 11, 16,18,21,22 and 35. It's only enough to break one article, so the states of the UN Convention to be blamed, I'm deliberately speaking to the states. The sixth thing, because the said group of children, after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, has not been returned to BiH, which in the most severe way is the violation of the provisions of Article 11 of this Convention on the Rights of the Child and a whole series of domestic and international regulations, is responsibility in my opinion to bear, I want to say responsibility, because the procedures state that these are the very categories I'm talking about. First, the authorities of the Republic of Italy, who treated our children as their war spoils. Secondly, the BiH presidency, which also approved that children go to Italy and did not use adequate effective instruments to return them to BiH. Thirdly, the Council of Ministers, in particular its respective foreign affairs ministries and refugee returns and human rights, which allowed the Italian authorities to carry out the adoption procedure without the consent of their parents. 30 Fourthly, this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which has shown intolerable passivity, I will use this term and unsuitable aujcadership, both in relation to domestic executive authority and relevant international entities, competent to help solve the case of the children of the protégé of dom Ljubica Ivezić of Sarajevo. Seven, from one information since 20.12.2001, which was drawn up by the Human Rights Sector of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, an attempt has been made to involve BiH authorities, through lawyers, in the process of contesting the process of adopting children, which is headed by the Court of Juveniles in Milaln. The Italian court eliminated BiH's consulate in Milan, our lawyer and without the BiH body, from the process. It's my formulation. Or maybe they're not unilateral. We need elements based on which to come to such a conclusion. Eighth, at the initiative of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Council of Ministers adopted at its 70th session, held on 13 June 2002: (a) The proposal to the Presidency and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to launch a solution to children taken to Italy in 1992 by diplomatic means. b) That the BiH Treasury Department proposes the way and source of funding for the costs of an Italian lawyer, through the BiH consulate in Milan. Can there be accepted reasons why these conclusions are not realized? I don't know, maybe somebody does. But as far as I know, they're not realised. This is about your kind of child trafficking, and whoever's clean has to prove he's not an accomplice. Soon, for example, this girl 30.6. o.g. He'll be 18 years old. She was adopted eight years ago, in my opinion, I said against the law, against all conventions and against the law of the Republic of Italy. That's why we have to do something and, no matter when and how long it's gonna be until we're done with the debate, but we have to react resiliently, because, therefore, after this little girl is 18 years old, it's gonna be way too late, although the question is now what can be. What's her name now, what's her address? Does she know that her father, who lives here in Sarajevo, is leading the dispute against BiH before the Human Rights Commission, at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. So, what is the role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in all this? The way I see it so far, very small, maybe none. Do we have the right for Parliamentarians to remain silent and watch as our executive government sees legitimate human demands to tell the public and parents the truth about the fate of their children? As long as we don't look, listen and read about the Italian media pointing their fingers at BiH, as the god-awful litter of terrorists. Isn't it embarrassing, extremely insolent and humiliating that the Italijan are willing to return a single child from this group of 46, but what is located in a psychiatric facility of their own? What did that poor kid go through to end up in a facility like that? And our foreign minister and the Presidency of our sovereign state are silent. 31 Dear colleagues, for the sake of BiH's dignity, for our own sake, for our children, for the children of the whole world, we must do something. I propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopt the following conclusions. First, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to provide complete information within 30 days on the fate of 46 children of children of children at the Children's Home in Sarajevo, taken to Italy in 1992. If they don't have enough information, I'll give them at least this part, which I have, there are authentic documents here, that can certainly help them close the picture and give us the information officially. Secondly, the House of People asks the Presidency of BiH and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to request, through diplomatic notes and other forms of diplomatic activity, the Government of the Republic of Italy to clarify all relevant issues related to the fate of children spoken, and to report to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH within three months. Thirdly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to make hasty use of all legal mechanisms, which will stop the 15-year-old children before the Italian Court of Juveniles in Milan from adopting a 15-year-old child, i.e. to use appropriate legal medicines, which will challenge all decisions of the Milan court before the Italian courts, which, without the parents' prior consent, have been made to adopt the remaining children of the group. Fourthly, the House of People obliges the Council of Ministers to carry out a thorough investigation through relevant law enforcement institutions and to establish possible criminal and other forms of responsibility for civil servants and civil servants, as well as other persons involved in the overall activity, who are personally responsible for the fact that the state of BiH and Italy does not comply with Article 11. Conventions on the Protection of the Rights of the Child ensured the return of children from abroad. It literally stands in the Convention. Fifthly, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges all the relevant state institutions of BiH to provide concrete information in contact with the authorities of the Republic of Italy concerning the fate and individuality of 46 children, such as addresses, names of adopters, meeting children with the fact that their parents and relatives live in BiH and so on, and in the event that overall activity does not produce adequate results, BiH institutions shall use all legal protection modes, including the launch of an international legal dispute against the authorities of the Republic of Italy, as well as the introduction of the Council of Europe and the relevant UN bodies on their own violation of the Convention on the rights of the child. The sixth, the House of Peoples obliges the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which according to the Rules of Procedure, is in charge of the human rights segment to monitor the overall activity in continuity and to report to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the results. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that in this case the elements have the least political responsibility, at least for living actors, some of whom are still active, politically 32 active. I don't believe it, of course there will be a determination of that responsibility now. That's not exactly the point. The goal is to help solve the problem as much as possible, but after all, this parliament will not be amnested by responsibility, none of us, at least today won't be able to say that he didn't know. Secondly, there is responsibility before the House for Human Rights, that is, to the relevant commission of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and the process is under way. I don't just know if it will end here or whether action will be launched before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, it will only be a special situation for both BiH and the state of Italy. Third, there is responsibility for those whose failures in BiH, in this particular case has not shown their true character, its humanism, its care for its children, so if you want international credibility. I believe this will be the case when the BiH Court says its position. A few days ago, a second Intergovernmental Conference on Children was held here in Sarajevo. There were representatives of 46 states. The prime minister's office was chaired by the prominent prime minister, Topić. Did she ask an Italian colleague about the fate of our Bosnian herd kids, which we are talking about today? I doubt it. Unfortunately. And she should have. And not only her, but also all BiH officials when they contact the representatives of Italy and touch everything, at least until we know the truth. And, finally, distinguished colleagues, I want to ask you briefly and clearly, don't just ask this suggestion of conclusions to go to the committee now, so that we lose 5-6 months, as with some previous conclusions, some of which have never even been returned here. Either it is or you're not up for this. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing disputed about me. I suggest and please make this clear. I think it's the least we can do at this point. I'm sorry I couldn't say this and read it in a normal tone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2781	We heard Mr. Lim's inspired. Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2782	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague Limov honestly and sincerely, and to congratulate him on both the initiative and the extraordinary effort that has been put into collecting so much data systematization and its tenacity to focus this issue on our home to bring it into light and to start. Unfortunately, I can only say one thing. I am sorry to talk about this today, instead of '96, I am sorry that so many BiH institutions and so many individuals in them have been underactive or absolutely inactive and have allowed us to get into this situation today. I particularly have data that some people in this time behind us, in BiH institutions, have made significant efforts to start this from a dead end, initiated etc. 33 Unfortunately, I must conclude that the representatives of more than all now sitting ruling and opposition parties or parties in BiH, in BiH's state institutions, have done more or less and contributed to the situation today. Personally, I have no intention of having any discussion about this, except in whole and wholeheartedly to support the proposed conclusions, and especially the one that concerns that I really don't see any reason to go to the commission on this, but to give this conclusion to speed. Perhaps some of these deadlines are now, when we want to do something too short, I think that, unfortunately, they are rational and that they are realistic and this 30-day and this one of three months and finally I suggest that we really accept all the proposed conclusions and that we are then resilient to obtain all the necessary information, but first of all, to ask the Council of Ministers to take action, therefore, within all these proposed measures, that the Council of Ministers take especially those measures that are most important, when it comes to this, this process of adopting underage children, to try that, as much as possible, as much longer as possible until we get into a situation so that we can act legally and properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2783	Thank you very much. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2784	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Uz, here's a big support and a thank-you sign not to repeat to my colleague, Čengić, Mr. Limov, who, superhumanly, invested a lot of energy and we get the report we got. As a parent of three children, there is nothing else I can do today but support Mr. Lim's proposed conclusions in the complete package. These conclusions are supported by all the delegates in the order of the Serb people, and I ask my colleague Lim to do only one milder form when it comes to doing, or not doing, the BiH Parliament. As a representative of this House, the relationship between a part of this Parliament, we have done everything we have done to ensure that the moment that you have not been given the responsibility of the Legislative Question, concerning this 46 children, that we have all voted unanimously to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in this procedure and I do not feel at all called or responsible for that part, and I ask you to mitigate it, because if Parliament has done or has not done so, here I think we are doing everything human and parentally, and here I am taking advantage of the opportunity to thank you for having human and parentally processed this matter and the Club of Serbian Delegates is fully supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2785	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2786	Thank you very much for your word. I'd say just for a little while. That this is an overly serious subject and here in this hall no one can be indifferent when it comes to what we've heard about, through Mr. Lim's exposure. I personally would not have gone so easily over the silence of all the relevant executive bodies in relation to this question, especially after we heard this 34 elaborate Mr. Lim. I would be one of the even more quality approaches to this issue, I would be in favour of the conclusion of this home, in the sense that the Council of Ministers is delivered as much as possible today, so it will not be possible today, but immediately a complete transcript of everything that has been heard here on this subject with Mr. Tom Lim's exposure and that, along with this transcript, all the valid material evidence, which Mr. Tomo Limov has, and in the shortest time, on the basis of everything that the Council of Ministers will receive, is in charge of the discharge ministry, I think that this is the Ministry of Human Rights and all the others that they should be present here, give answers to certain questions, that after such a very serious debate, then we will come to certain points in this House, because here we have heard certain things that we have not been able to do, that they have to prevent certain things, that they have not been done, that they have to prevent certain, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent certain, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to do certain, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to do, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to prevent, to do, to prevent, to do, to prevent, to do, to prevent, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do more. There are findings here, certain claims, which are almost not borderline, but are crimes of human trafficking. So that's something we couldn't get past one little conclusion. So what I suggested is, something a little bit redefined seems to me, a little more serious in consultation with Mr. Limov. We will come up with a better relationship with this negligent, which has so far been covered by a veil of secrecy for the Bosnian Herzegovina public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2787	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Brka answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2788	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, when I received a proposal on the agenda and saw that this item was included in the agenda, then, since we didn't get the materials, I tried the surrounding way to get some information. I called the Human Rights Minister, and I asked for information to be delivered, and then they sent me a list of these materials regarding the case. So with me looking for something more concrete, if you have something brief, then they sent me one of these material, which is here, one of the 3-4 pages, and I didn't hate it, and I tried to contact our consulate in Milan, and I talked to the consul in Milan. I had an intention, because yesterday I got the information that, and I remember reading in the press on several occasions that Miss Emina Kamenica was writing about it, but unfortunately I didn't get it last night, so I wanted to get some more information from there, and I think this is a very serious thing and it's a real shame that this hasn't started so far. Thank Mr. Limov for starting this and not repeating a single word, the failure is very much from, in my opinion, I've been saying it in my sights, from the very beginning of the organization of that road to the day today, there have been a lot of failures. I've received information from the consulate that the consulate has never received information to whom the children in Milan were handed, official information. The consulate now has no information about adopted children, where they are, who adopted them. Their other names, etc. It's just that I don't owe it, I guess these conclusions will be accepted, with what I want to expand. I would be looking here not only for information from the authorities, but also for the BiH Prosecutor's Office to start from the first moment to the day of today's responsibility of the people who participated in that chain to make this happen to these children. There may have been some moves with good intentions, as Mr. Limov says, but good intentions don't solve the problem. Maybe some jobs shouldn't have worked, if the end result hadn't been known. But if the final result was known, then it's only a disaster. Only then is it a disaster. I am not prejudicing anything, I am not accusing anyone, but I believe that from the first moment to the day of today, the BiH Prosecutor's Office should examine the responsibility of all the actions in this case and that Parliament is then acting on all the indicators that I consider, because it is no longer in Italy, as far as I have received the information, it is no longer a legal issue. For the Italian government adopted children are a done deal, a done act. They won't talk about it. How did that happen? I don't know. I have such information. These kids who aren't old yet, what about them? They don't have an address, they don't know where they are. I'm talking about the official authorities of this country, which operates in Milan at the consulate. So, it's just all on the questionnaires. There's a lot of questionnaires that shouldn't be. That, my dear gentlemen, my colleagues and all of you who listen, no committee of parliament can handle it. It's only the investigative authorities can solve everything, but since we can't do it, and we can't even stand in place, I, it's my suggestion, it's my suggestion, in my first contact to ask him to try to solve it with the political activities of this country and more expensive Italy, in one normal way, so legally in Italy it's indecisive, if politics gets involved, and Italy's policy can, if it's in good faith, if we organise it, if we get it right, it'll be able to do some things. I'm not saying that let's say that these kids are going to be able to come back, or people, women have them now with their families there now. They went there when they were 14-15 years old. They're grown men now. They have children of their own. We don't need to ignore those facts, but we need to do things, lead to the truth. He needs to know what, who and how he did, he didn't yield. We need to know who's responsible from day one, let's say we take the kids into the unknown, we don't know the end result, and I don't know what the final result is. I'm not blaming anyone, I'm not defending anyone, but I'm looking as a man, as a man who has children has grandchildren, I'm asking for it to be brought to clean, to know who did what, whether he should have done it, whether he was responsible, whether he was guilty or right, or what someone didn't do, and he had to do it. So, in fact, my two proposals are investigators, the D.A.'s office to do its part of the job and politically that the BiH state, through its political authorities with the state of Italy, is trying to resolve it so that it can be solved in the most possible way and that all information is obtained. The third proposal is, if there are no results in this political field with Italy, then go to the International Court and get it settled in the International Court, but I think these are the steps we need to take. There will probably be more debates here in Parliament. I'm sure I'll be very interested in this. It hurts me like a man what happened to those kids, and I want the right to have a lot more attitude about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2789	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2790	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I'm really sorry to hear about this for the first time today, and I support almost all these people who have deliberately advocated that in some way we come to the truth about this case which, really for me and I am also a parent, I have six children, and I feel really sorry for every man who has suffered a trauma to have his child taken away and that he never knows a clue about it again. I suggest that, since I've heard about this for the first time and I really don't know about this, here's Hasan says that, or Osman says he had some material, I really didn't have any material, I suggest that here present Mr. Tomić, who is from the Children's Embassy, has some more information that we can't just close ourselves up and finish this, propose to the Council of Ministers. We, really as Osman said, we need to discuss here in more detail, it's 46 people of this BiH country, and I don't think we can go over this easily, and we need to go back here a few times to this question and get it over with, really if we started it right and we waited a long time, and I really don't know why it's been waiting so long and that we bring it in a real way to show the truth as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2791	Thank you very much. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2792	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I didn't mean anything by it, not even a little bit, I don't know how to say it, I was even going to suggest to you about information, because this is about information, what my colleague Zoran said. I've also come to this information for the first time, that this information is not discussed at all. I'm talking like a man who's a little embarrassed, which he first learned today what happened to all of us, because this is, this isn't what happened or happened, I don't know, and it seems to me that every big story is unnecessary, especially that there are excess stories in the form of material. This is about people, this is about children. According to this, all legal and institutional possibilities should be exploited to the final truth. We can't come to this place today, where we're lucky we can, but it's clear we can't. Can we reach this conclusion, which is proposed? I'm not sure. But I guess if we can't make these conclusions, then someone else is going to incriminate and add some more conclusions. What is the path, whether it's via Milan or Rome, through our embassy, but there's a way through the Charter of the Rights of the Child, which leads through Strasbourg, through Geneva to the UN Council in New York. So, all possibilities are open and so we conclude that everything in human power must be taken, not prejudged by conclusions, not prejudged by the end, that... in which way, which of the mature people wants to return back to their homeland to their parents, who doesn't want to, we won't go in, but to find out everything must and therefore I say and the Council, or the UN organization in which it defends and human dignity, the dignity of individuals, but also dignity and this state of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2793	37 Thank you, Mr. Zno. I'm taking a break by 2:30. Here, after my usual Friday break at this hour, due to going to the jumble, we continue the session. [[PAUZA]] Continuing this item of the agenda Information on the fate of 46 children of children of children of the Children's Home Ljubica Ivezić taken from Sarajevo to Italy in 1992. We heard Mr Lim's exorcisms, and then, in turn, almost all MPs and I think we've used one attitude, one quality attitude in which we might say Mr Limov would ask the Council of Ministers for a more serious study on this, and Mr Limov suggested and, of course, the swings. I'd say that at five points, right? You heard Mr. Lim's discussion. He made those conclusions here at this session, and I don't know if there is any need for further discussion or if we will define that we may look again at these conclusions and that we are taxing from point to point, or from conclusion to conclusion, and we will try to make quality snacks, so that, in which we insist on the Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH relevant to this event, for these problems, to inform Parliament seriously, to make a serious analysis and to direct them to what direction. Mr. Limov, do you agree that this is how we go when it comes to these conclusions of yours, or do you have any other vision, because from the discussions we've had, in principle, all of these people's conclusions are accepted in some detail, so let's see?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2794	Ma, I, I respect my colleagues and Mr. President, personally appreciate that the conclusions are clear and that, if there is a need for intervention, in terms of clear precision or dilemma, I suggest that colleagues plead, if not, then I suggest we adopt the conclusions of what they say to the package, but I personally don't mind, if you want one at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2795	I am the only one here who thinks what Mr. brkati said in his statement, that the Council of Ministers or the Ministry should properly investigate this case from the beginning to the end. Osman, are you number four? Number four. The People's House obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to make sure, through the relevant law enforcement institutions, thorough investigations are carried out and that, yes, this is Osman, I think that this is where your request is covered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2796	I'd be very clear here. I agree with this conclusion that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, not the relevant institutions, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2797	In what conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2798	In this quarter. Here it writes relevant institutions, the BiH Prosecutor's Office to conduct a legitimate investigation from the first moment to the day today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2799	Well, the D.A.'s office is here, and it's a proper organ.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2800	Well, I know, don't let me, I don't want you around, I want you to know who should do it directly. There are as many institutions as you want. I want one that's the most responsible, that's the BiH Prosecution. The D.A.'s investigation. Make others, but I want this to be. By the way of the D.A.'s office and other institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2801	Here you go, Mr. Limov. I'd be happy to bring it, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2802	...there are several institutions that have been invited to participate in the investigation of this case. When they do their part of the job, of course, to step on the prosecutor's scene, the courts in charge, etc. So, first of all, it is necessary on the basis of the information that the police, Interpol intelligence services, have, therefore, to present to the prosecutor enough elements on the basis of these data that it leads to further processing. If you go to the prosecutor immediately, then someone has to prepare the materials and documentation, the data, the facts, which are relevant to assess the process. I personally don't mind it being, if Mr. brkati insists that the D.A. and other institutions are in place, noting that these other institutions must prepare the case for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2803	Well, well, we're proposing to the D.A.'s office. It can quit, if it won't. Do we accept this change? So, we accept in Mr Lim's conclusion, with this note and the reinforcement of Mr. Brk to say that the prosecution is involved, so, if it can, the post-festum certainly. 39 Who is in favour of such a proposal? We're pleading for Mr. Brka's supplement? Who's in? Put your hands where I can count. - Eight for it. Who's against it? Restraint? 1 2 versus – 2 abstentions. Mr. Brk's proposal has passed. Who's to pass this set of laws with Mr. Brk's proposal? Who's in? Who's restrained? - 1 Who's against it? There's no one. So 14, or 13 is for, two are not present, and 1 is retained. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the sixth point of the agenda. Ad.6. We've given this fourth point to rephrase. I predicted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2804	The text agreed for the fourth point of our agenda is. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges the Council of Ministers to establish within a month criteria for determining BiH institutions' headquarters, taking into account political, social, economic, territorial and functional actors. I call upon the delegates to come to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2805	Who's up for this proposal? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.6. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on BiH police officers I think Mr. Boško Šiljegović is the president. Here you go, Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2806	Thank you, Mr. President, on the basis of Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and of Article 95(1). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House were held today by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the law on BiH police officers. 40 Members of the Commission: Vinko Zorić, Hazim Felić, Petar Kunić from the House of Representatives, and Halid Genjac, Boško Šiljegović and Ante Spajić from the House of Peoples and propose, with regard to the fact that we were proposing two amendments, adopted at the 23rd session of this House since 4.5.2004, members of the Joint Commission unanimously accepted the text of the Law on Police Officers of BiH, with amendments adopted, and proposed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to adopt this report and adopt the single text of the law, as proposed by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2807	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. I put the law to the vote, or the Commission's report to reach an agreement on the identical text of the police officers' law and put the law on police officers to the vote. Is it now necessary to adopt it in a unique text? Right? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.7. Confirming the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions you received a report from the Commission, as well as a list of candidates in general positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and that: 1st Colonel Rizvo Pleh, on the duty of the General Inspector General at the Ministry of Defence, 2nd Colonel Miladin Milojčić, acting as Deputy Chief of Staff of the Joint Staff of the Republic of BiH for Resources, 3rd Colonel Mirko Tepčić, on the duty of Deputy Commander of Operations for the First Operations, this Roman 1st, 4th Brigadier Sakib Forić, acting as Deputy Commander of the Operation Commander for Resources, the Representative's House confirmed the list of candidates at the 36th session, held on 11 May. I'm opening a debate. Here we have, please nice, here we have the Secretary of Defense and I'd like to ask if you have one. Mr. Zrna, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2808	Ladies and gentlemen, once again only from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level. Report from the Commission. A report on the decision to set out the list of candidates for general positions in BiH's joint defence institutions. The BiH presidency delivered a decision on 7.5.2004 on the establishment of a list of candidates for general positions in BiH's joint defence institutions. The joint commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level, held at the 6th session of 10.5.2004, discussed the decision and unanimously proposed, with the House's proposal to confirm the appointment of the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2809	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Mr. Minister, please let us listen to Mr. Radovanović, Minister at the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these essential matters, which are now being said, regarding the procedure for determining, or confirming four candidates to the general positions in the defence system, I feel the need to introduce you here to the importance of this confirmation and further procedure, given that there has been enough and that this topic is quite public. Therefore, by confirming today's four candidates in four of those positions, the three institutions in the defence system, set up at the state level, are being filled in by persons acting as generals. So, the ministry's general inspector, as well as the joint BiH headquarters, is BiH's operational command. In state-level defence institutions, seven positions are foreseen for seven persons in the rank of generals, and in this way, this process does not end, but fills these three institutions in sufficient numbers to allow them to continue their activities in the first order of joint staff and operational command, which are significant for several reasons. One of them is also meeting the conditions for joining the Partnership for Peace Programme. However, what remains still a commitment and what is under way is to fill the remaining five positions at the state level and the remaining positions on the entity-level persons in the rank of generals. At present, the situation is such that the SFOR commander, i.e. SFOR's command, has given consent as competent to meet two positions in the Ministry of Defence, i.e. in the RS, is the head of the RS General Staff and to fill the 15th Motorised Brigade. The procedure to fill the persons of the Federation of BiH Army and the elements of the BiH Federation's final phase structure and to check 12 others, which were proposed by federal defence minister 12.5. We expect in the coming week that we will also receive these results of the verification and after that and completed the procedure before the 42 Standing Committee on Military Affairs and the BiH Presidency will follow another reference to the candidates in the Parlametary procedure and to confirm the remaining candidates for generalised positions to the defence system in BiH. In this way, we hope that in the next two weeks, all the generals in the BiH defence system would be appointed for the longest three sessions, thus establishing a, or realised decision from 24 March this year, which determines the organisation and structure. I suggest that Mr. Chairman, to respect these arguments and to confirm the nomination of the four persons listed in the position as you have stated them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2811	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. I'm sorry, Boško ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2812	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister's Club of Serbian Delegates agrees on the general positions of BiH's joint defence institutions and this: 1st Brigadir Rizvo pleh at the post of General Inspector at the BiH Ministry of Defence, 2nd Colonel Milojčić, acting as Deputy Chief of the Joint Staff for Resources, under the 3rd Colonel Mirko Tepšić, on the post of Deputy Commander of the Operational Command for Operations. As for the fourth candidate, the Serbian People's Club of Delegates ahead of a statement on General Sakib Forić's bid to be checked, according to Dragan Lalović, presented in the means of information. Namely, he claims, I quote, that Forić was the death squad commander, who in June 1992, took his father Mitar and the other Srbin from Dobrinjska Street in an unknown direction and since then lost every lead, and after that, they robbed and burned their property. We can't support this candidate until we've checked these allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2813	We heard Mr. Šiljegović. And Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2814	Mr. President, I've said enough here today, there will be no need to go out anymore, but distinguished colleagues and esteemed ministers, Mr. Minister, whose problem is ahead of us, have already heard their opinion on this, will of course be in a few different intensities from counterpart Šiljegović. So, we have before us the task of confirming the list of candidates in general positions in BiH institutions. When the opposition leader is due to declare the candidates proposed by the government, then it is politically most profitable to be against. Of course, you're used to me doing so, but there are situations where all and the government and opposition have to show responsibility according to the terms of the general interests or interests of the majority or all of us. In my opinion, today is one of those situations. In fact, 30, 40 days before the Istanbul summit, NATO, we are still not sure if we will reach the Partnership for Peace. It's the interest of our country, the interest of all of us. That's why I'm going to step down from the principle that I'm against all of your candidates. And that's how I'm going to act, of course, to the Istanbul Summit, especially when it comes to the people you're proposing from the Department of Defense and Police and Home Affairs. We heard last night that the activity of our reform is moving in that segment as well. Of course, this is my personal act, and I know it's not decisive when it's voted, but here I want to send a clear message and say what I think about this situation and what I think it would be good for us all to say, in order to meet what is expected of us and move more decisively on the European path. Of course, for the delay and for this, the minister himself spoke, responsible, current hair, but God Bog if we fail, we'll all feel bad consequences. It is also bad that the general list is not complete and it is embarrassing for me that there is not a single name from a nation on that list and that is why they are responsible, and I want to say it clearly from this pay phone, who have been looking for bread through the pasture and for living generals who are safely passing, inventing hot water. It's my personal opinion and make sure that those who break legends come back and smash it in the head. I give my vote for every list, for every appointment that BiH will bring closer to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2815	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Do we have any more debaters? Here's Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2816	Dear colleagues, media representatives, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, we all know very well at which stage BiH's accession process is for the Partnership for Peace. We are familiar with all because we have all participated in the drafting of the law and everything that followed after the law and all procedures and in all procedures we have participated as members of Parliament and especially as members of the Commission for the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We are also very well aware that the deadlines have been set in some hodogram to meet the conditions and to raise credibility for joining the Partnership for Peace, very short stay and in a lot of segments and are critical in the sense that they are not to be reached. One of those deadlines is the appointment of these key positions, general positions. I, of course, respect the argument of every member of Parliament and every particular argument of this kind, and I agree to everything being explored. Unfortunately, I don't think this has been done properly. First of all, double-checked all these candidates for general positions, there was plenty of time, ways, letters, possibilities to bring out reserves, to point to possible lip, etc. 44 In addition, we are at the moment when the House of Representatives, the Preserdship has finished, the Commission has finished, the Parliamentary Assembly Commission, the Parliamentary House of Representatives has completed the work, and at the moment we need to declare that decision, there is one very important observation. As much as it was founded or not established, I will not enter but a very significant remark for which there were both places and opportunities and ways to be presented in a timely manner. So as not to contribute to my delay in this process, and that there is a possibility that appointments are made and that checks are carried out and done, so if they show up, etc. but not to prejudge, that they would not contribute to any find, for this House of the People was not yet a place where the processes were held and where they were late. I would ask one break of ten, fifteen minutes of club presidents, to try to find a solution that will be acceptable but that we are not responsible for the delay in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2817	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I think, I'm sorry, I think what Halid suggested makes full sense. Let's see, we're kind of late with this part anyway. We're all following up on what's going on here, and it wouldn't be a good idea for Dom when all this is over, for the people to be someone who will, I'm asking the presidents of three clubs with Mr. Secretary together to talk a little bit and try to find a quality solution to overcome this problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2818	I thank the respected colleagues, chairing, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, representatives of public information funds, in order not to get a picture of someone deliberately obstructing something here, that even as a last moment, we found in the newspaper today this quote that Mr. Šiljegović made and we could not react sooner. So that's what happened today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2819	I've got to go now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2820	..we're not saying that apriori, we believe but we're asking to be examined.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2821	Please, I need an intervention here now. I apologize to my colleagues from the Serbian people, from the Club of Serbian MPs, and I don't think this logic is the best. This is a process that I think, international institutions or what I know, everyone investigates these people and monitors what they did, did they, did they do, and there's only a man out there who might be right, maybe not. ...is coming up with one proposal and one vision, and that is the reason for 45 MPs, Serbian MPs, to suspend this proposal. However, I think that at this point we need to agree, we need to see, we need to finish this job and we need to try with the minister and the way that it should be done, to reconsider it again. A man can always back off and take off when he's elected. Thank you. Here I am done. It's not a break yet. Here's Mr. Jukić, and then we'll take a break. The break will be, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2822	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are today at the opportunity to discuss the list of candidates of the general position and the four candidates, none of whom are Hrvat. I've heard that certain candidates are not...candidates did not get a pass from SFOR and here I would take advantage of the presence here of the defence minister asking when we can expect an answer for the new candidates who have been running for general positions in the Joint Command and why does this check take so long? I'm convinced if there's anything arranged in this country in a system, then it's in the military, in command, and I think about all the high-ranking officers, especially the generals in the military, that they have all the data, that they're being conducted very neatly in certain whether the services are their personal files and I don't know why waiting so long for a check? This is my question and, of course, dissatisfaction, by the fact that we can't talk here today about any hrvat, and I think it's very important that at the very beginning in the formation of this joint command, and the appointment of candidates for general positions, it immediately begins with an adequate complement in terms of the balance of representatives of the constituent peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2823	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask my colleagues to take a break, not to spoil the discussion, that club presidents along with the minister try to find a way out of this situation. The break is 10 minutes. ...pause, we had a request to the presidents of MPs, MP clubs to agree and find a solution to this fourth candidate. [[PAUZA]] I'd like to ask my colleagues that one of them, they've probably agreed and who's going to come out and tell us what they've agreed, so we can move on. Here's Mr. Genjac. Thank you very much. Hasane, we kept working. That's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2824	Dear colleagues, we have held this pause conversation and respecting the sensitivity of this issue and, of course, respecting any suspicion that arises about any 46 candidates, it is very important that each of the candidates be acceptable to all the peoples and all the citizens of BiH. The proposal was and I think that we agreed to confirm the appointments of those who have passed the checks, as prescribed in the legal procedure, and that all those including families or associations mentioned in that text are instructed at the ESFOR General Inspectorate to submit their applications, doubts, disputes because the ESFOR General Inspectorate has the possibility to access all institutions and its documentation, all BiH institutions and, of course, the International Tribunal's institutions in The Hague. This led us to the fact that leading to the press inscriptions would be very counterproductive, because what if tomorrow some inscriptions appear for some of the candidates, or for seven days, and I think the universal answer to all these questions, that all BiH citizens as entities and as legal and natural persons have the opportunity to address the ESFOR General Inspectorate. And to conclude, the agreement is to confirm the appointments under this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2825	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I think there it is, Mr. Šiljegović answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2826	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Serbian Delegates in a short five-minute break with the presence of the defence minister, suggests that, now I do not know how the House will plead, if it is an individual vote, for the first three generals we will give support without any conditions, for the fourth general, we will give conditional support and conditional confirmation of his appointment, and Mr. Dragan Lalović, who has made accusations and which have been published in means of information, that with arguments and evidence the SFOR General Inspectorate, who has the mandate and obligation to verify from the 92th year, the possibility of access to the UN tribunal's documentation and in that variant, there may be a possibility of suspending the appointment or simple refusal of evidence for this fourth general, therefore, the Club of Serbian delegates will be conditional upon this, confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2827	Thank you very much. Do we have any more debaters? We've got Mr. Jukić reporting for the fritz again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2828	Here I am, in my debate earlier, asking a question here to the present defence minister, I expect an answer. I think the Minister's most called on to say about the procedure, the candidacy, that is, why are the deadlines so long and when can we expect a statement of consent to the proposed candidates who are not included here today? 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2829	Thank you very much. If Mr. Minister can answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for several comments, I have the possibility that, in the case of objections or the existence of any arguments relating to the behaviour of any individual in the defence system, which is contrary to the laws, can therefore address the Inspector General and that the ESFOR or international forces have both the mandate and the obligation and the duty to act in accordance with the allegations which they have been made. When it comes to the situation created in the process of checking with candidates from the Croatian people and about speed or slowness, the situation is next. In the first round of appointments or nominations of candidates, a total number of 13 seats have been set for persons with the rank of generals, based on the presidency's decision of 24.3. The decision also established the distribution of general positions on a national basis and envisioned five positions for the Bosniak people, 4 persons from the Serb people's order, 4 persons from the Croatian people's ranks. It is also recommended in the process of verifying that two candidates are proposed for each of the positions to avoid the situation if some of the candidates do not pass the verification procedure and that we do not then have the right persons for each of the positions. The fact that the Federal Defence Ministry has submitted 9 candidates for 9 people from the Bosniak people to a total of 5 positions, so there was no reserve candidate in one position, while the Federal Defence Ministry delivered four positions belonging to representatives of the Croatian people of 4 candidates. So without one spare candidate in those positions. And six candidates for four positions were delivered from the Serb people's ranks. So in 3 positions there were one reserve candidate, and in 2 positions there were no reserve candidates. The outcome of the check was such that 5 candidates from the Serbian people passed the check, and the decision of the High Representative of 16 April was suspended from the list and the verification was suspended, and the check was suspended as Lieutenant General Cvjetko Savić. There have been four candidates from the Bosniak people's ranks, in which, following the application of the person to the ESFOR Inspector General, the procedure or the possibility of appointing until further time for Brigadier Sakib Rađa to participate in a car accident with fatal consequences and criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice has been suspended. And none of the four candidates in the Croatian People's Order have passed, which required 1 brigade to move away from the armed forces at present until 15/05 due to links to the war crimes and the three held the possibility of serving or working in the armed forces while continuing the verification procedure due to activities contrary to the ESFOR Commander's Chapter XIV. These activities include that the person has been convicted, accused or investigated by some of the domestic or international institutions for violation of domestic laws, international humanitarian law, the Law on armed conflict, standards and 48 human rights conventions, that there exists as a second, that there is any financial, political conflict between public officials and private interests, whether personal or professional or financial or the same interests of members of the family of those persons. Third, that there is complete, whether there is complete neutrality in political issues and engagements and as a fourth, a relationship to the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It is therefore an activity in the period from 1992 to the date of appointment. Acting on the BiH presidency's views, the BiH Ministry of Defence addressed the ESFOR commander and demanded further information in these cases and what we have at the moment is that an investigation into three persons from the Croatian people who remained in the service but did not get consent to the appointment procedure to the general positions continues and that the moment the investigation is completed and the inter-resistant General Inspectorate is led, the ESFOR Command will be these findings delivered to the Ministry of Defence. As far as speed is concerned, the fact is that the Federal Defence Ministry established and provided the BiH Ministry of Defence with a list of 12 candidates to the remaining positions, 12 May, 12 May of this year, so 9 or 10 days ago and we expect the ECFOR Command to make the results available to the BiH Ministry of Defence and Institutions over the coming week. Given that the investigation is detailed, it includes checking the allegations both before The Hague tribunal and I do not know which other institutions international, so I agree that since the persons are already in the armed forces, it is likely that these checks are faster but I think this speed and this period is satisfactory and that it is such that it does not interfere with the establishment and accession of the Partnership for Peace programme, if it is the most important or important element. Maybe another detail about the speed and timing of these activities. So since 24.03, the BiH presidency has established the structure of the BiH Armed Forces and the schedule of general positions. 5.04. So 10 or 11 days later, the Ministry of Defence sent 19 candidates to the ESFOR Command. So 17 days later, an ESFOR check was carried out and delivered to BiH institutions. 5.05. was held on 5 May, a session of the Standing Committee on Military Affairs and a session of the BiH Presidency, which set out the list of 4 candidates we are discussing today. A meeting or meeting of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was held on 10.05., the candidacy of these candidates was confirmed. So, since it's been working on the highest duties in the defense system, the complete procedure has been going on for about 40 days, and given these 6 or 7 steps, I think it was a relatively effective procedure, an effective procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2831	Thank you, too. We heard the minister's statement. Here I think there are basically no vague things anymore. I am now asking to see if we will vote for all four candidates, with the conclusion that the Club of Serbian MPs is expressing a reserve for the fourth candidate, named Sakib Forić, so that he would like to do so, to make sure that there is an ex post check. 49 Am I well gentlemen of the Club of Serbian MPs, is it a good formulation? I think this is a good and reasonable formulation. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2832	I believe that the content of these talks and agreements reflects the following conclusion; the appointments are confirmed, proposals for the appointment of all candidates, noting that for the fourth candidate, doubts are expressed in media funds and those who have expressed doubts refer to the ESFOR General Inspectorate to submit an argument in order to further determine whether this was established.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2833	Vinko, I'm sorry. Here's Mr. Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2834	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we could generally accept this with what we think should continue with this conclusion that we still have some feedback from the General Inspectorate on the checks carried out. Yes and it is through the Ministry that it is mainly the General Inspectorate that will give back the information on the verification carried out through the Ministry or directly, mainly that we have the information of the conditions we have given, from the Ministry I agree with the Ministry of this Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2835	All right. So, the formulation is, we accept the list of all four candidates by asking the Serbian MPs' club to do it from the ministry and it will continue to do it, an explanation for the fourth candidate in terms of how we discussed it. Right? Do we agree with that? Who's in? Thank you, colleagues. So unanimous. Thank you. It's the eighth item of the agenda, Add.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples You gave, the debate was being held whether the law under the shortened procedure, the House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for discussing the law at the 36th session of 11.05. In 2004. I'm asking if anyone's answering for a word, so there's no debate. 50 It means who is in order to request the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, who's in favour? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Point nine of the agenda, Add.9. The draft law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, the first reading of the House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second reading, at the 37th session held on 11 May with 12 amendments. I'm opening a debate, and who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. President. The President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2836	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, briefly to inform you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has discussed, therefore, the Proposal for a Law on the High Court of Appeal and Prosecutors of BiH, that esteeming the importance of this legal act and respecting the fact that this is one important law on the list of priorities, therefore one of the essential post-opportunity obligations and knowing that the House of Representatives has accepted this, with 12 amendments, through the full procedure. The Commission is therefore seeking to come to the adoption of this law, here after today's session of the House, Mr Radović, Mr Neimarlija and my smallness have accepted the amendments of the House of Representatives as their own and the Constitutional and Legal Commission has therefore accepted in the same form as they were adopted in the House of Representatives of the Amendment on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We propose to the House, to accept this report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to carry out the debate and in the first, we propose immediately and in the second reading and that this law be passed today by this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2837	Thank you very much. Do we have any more debaters? I'm putting on a bill of law in the first reading. Who's in favor of adopting the law in our first reading? Unanimously, thank you very much. Following and respecting the Commission's views, I suggest we go to the debate on the law and in the second reading. And is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, he's not answering. 51 Who is it to adopt the law in the second reading, with these amendments, what has the Commission proposed? Please, it's an integral part, that's what the Commission has proposed. Thank you very much. So this unanimously, too. It was adopted in the same text, so the law was adopted in the same text as it was adopted in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. The tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Proposal for a law on litigation with BiH courts, first reading I think Mr Filipović, it is within the jurisdiction of your commission. So there were no amendments. Are there any debaters? The House of Representatives, I must say, has passed this law both in the first and second readings. I'm now putting the first-reading bill to the vote. Who's in favor of adopting the law in our first reading? Unanimously, thank you very much. So we also agree that we are going to adopt this law in a second reading. Are there any debaters? Is anyone answering for the discussion? Niko. Thank you very much. I suggest we pass this law in a second reading. Who's in? So the law was passed unanimously, identical to what was adopted by the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. 11th Point of the Agenda, Ad.11. Proposal for a framework law on stakes This is the first reading. You received the law as a report from the committee responsible. Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2838	Very short. The Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed this proposal of the Zastava Framework Law as a competent commission. There were no amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but here are the amendments tabled in 18.05 by the esteemed colleague, Genjac, referring to Article 89.3. As the Rules of Procedure so require, this should be decided by the College after the debate begins. I think she's starting right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2839	52 Thank you very much. Here's to us passing the law. I'm here to talk about the law in the first reading. Who's in favour of adopting this law in our first reading. Who's in? Take Bosko's vote. Unanimity. Thank you very much. So we passed the law in our first reading. Here, if we agree, shall we move on to the law in the second reading? Mr. Genjac had amendments, is that so we can hear about the amendment, and then we'll make up our mind, Mr. Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2840	We are now at the second reading of the law, and I, as already stated by the Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Mr Filipović, after the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, have submitted amendments 48 hours before this session, so within a time period that prescribes one possibility, but that possibility is indeed at the decision of the College. In fact, I've called for new circumstances. In doing so, I considered new circumstances that two amendments were adopted at the House of Representatives and I accepted these amendments and suggested that the House of Peoples adopt them, in order to get the law in the same text. The amendments are in terms of technical and legal improvement, they are acceptable. I have also spoken with the authors of the law, they are acceptable, of course, since at the House of Representatives it was adopted for the Council of Ministers as much as I have received the information and I would ask the College to respect this circumstance as the Rules of Procedure foresees or not to respect it. In that case, it would be a match between two homes. If the amendment is accepted, I will explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2841	Thank you very much. Are we going to discuss this now? Here comes Mr. Juki with his attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2842	I hope we've all studied our rules of procedure. At our last session, or sequel, which was, when it was the Law on Higher Education, and before that, when the Law seemed to me about refugees, we individuals tried to apply our rights in Article 89, which can really be interpreted in various ways. I used to say that I wanted to interpret him and today I interpret him like that. And that's why I think, as a member of the College, that I should give my consent so that amendments that arrive in this way can be considered. 53 However, some of us do not think so. I hope that the members of the College think so and I think it is one quality and that it is in favor of the right of MPs to be constructive to the end and that I can propose an improvement in the text, which is in the interest of all of us, as well as of the House as an individual. And that is why I will not do as my fellow Member, Mr Halid Genjac, who, at the last session, has replaced a member of the College and I am giving my consent, and I think my colleagues agree that we can talk today about these two amendments in order to really get the text improved, i.e. to save effort and time if these amendments are adopted and we do not need to have a Commission for Harmonization. So, I'll do it again for a while. I remain consistent with my definition, my thinking of how and in what way we should, or at least I speak for myself, how I should work, how I interpret this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2843	Thank you very much. I've got to get this one right here, just to say that the College is always constructive, and it's a very quick deal. So let's go, please, so we're going to discuss the law in the second reading, we're going to discuss the amendments, because we want to make, to adopt this law in the same text, not to make new commissions, and so we want to be effective. I'm opening an amendment debate. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2844	I thank my colleague Jukić this one, and I'm really sorry if I've disrupted the constructiveity of the College for a moment. It'll never happen again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2845	No, it's important to be consistent, it's important to have an opinion of this,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2846	But if my colleague Jukić had not accepted the amendment today, I would consider it a consistent position, as the Rules of Procedure allow members of the College to make a decision with their votes whether they will accept new amendments or not. He doesn't ask the College to, but to decide whether to accept, to assess the circumstances and decide. But in any case, I'll make extra efforts not to disturb. This, therefore, please amend the Proposal for a Framework Law on Stocks, Amendment I. At the end of Article 18, a new position is added which reads – the data register must be made available daily to interested citizens, in the justice ministries of entities, which will be arranged. Please, there's one correction here that's also in the 54 House of Representatives. Not with a special act, but with a Regulation, which will be governed by the Regulation. It's the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2847	Well, the regulation is a special act.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2848	That's it, but the regulation to be the same content in the House of Representatives, so it wouldn't be. So, you understand the content of this, it is in a certain way fully and necessary and rational, given that it is a moving asset, moving across BiH. The purpose of the adoption of this law and of this amendment itself improves in a certain way those objectives and the achievement of those objectives which were intended to be achieved by this law. That's one amendment. The second amendment, article 38, changes and reads – in case this law is contrary to another law in BiH, this law will apply. It's also accepted at the House of Representatives and I think it's also a logical solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2849	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. I think this is well explained. Do we have any objections to the amendments, to this position of Mr. Genjac, of his amendments? As far as I can tell, we don't. Who's in favour of adopting this first amendment to Mr. Genjac? Who's in? Unanimously, thank you very much. One abstention, all right. [[Common discussion]] Thank you very much. Please, I'm putting Mr. Genjac to the vote on Amendment II. Who's up for the amendment? Unanimously, thank you very much. So we've adopted both amendments. Do we have any further? Please Hasan, Hasan, I run the Assembly very well, I ask you nicely is there anyone further to answer the word regarding this law? There are no discourses. I'm putting the pawnage bill to the vote. Who's for, with the amendments, the second reading? Unanimity. Thank you for your efficiency. 55 So the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted it. Excuse me, Deputy Minister of Justice. I'm sorry, you had to knock a little bit, so I could see you. I'm envied.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2851	I apologize for reacting earlier. So I feel the need to address the House of Peoples and to thank really for the understanding of, therefore, all the envoys in the House of Peoples as well as the MPs at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but I am not saying this out of the court of some, but there is really a need to thank, therefore, that today we are going to realize that today is the adoption of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, here I am now publicly saying one of the priorities to this, the EU accession and we are going to implement this law, so very quickly. So, as far as the High Prosecutor's Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH is concerned. Of course, thank you for the Law on Prosecution because this creates procedural assumptions for the work of the BiH Court of Justice in litigation and also special thanks for the Law on Stocks, which is one of the terms of the BAC loan of the World Bank of BiH. And I really think the public should know at least from this segment that they are really today to pass significant laws of this, that this House has made a great contribution to it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2852	Thanks, buddy. I know good ministers appreciate this House's work, [[Common discussion]] Please, let's go ahead, please bill, point twelve, Ad.12. Proposal for a law establishing a power transmission company, first reading This is the first reading of the law. You received the law as a report from the committee responsible. There is a debate on whether or not there is a legal basis. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings from 11 amendments to the 35th session, held on 4 May this year. I'm opening a debate, and who's answering for a word? Here you go, engineer, Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2854	56 Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here we have another reform law which is one of the conditions for the accession process. BiH is a signator of the Memorandum of Understanding in the Regional Energy Market in Southeast Europe and its integration into the EU. It is based on the principles set by the EU member states of Southeast Europe, so between the rest and BiH, that where participants commit to building common rules for the production, transmission and distribution of electricity as well as rules for the functioning of the electricity market and access to networks and the functioning of the system, which is regulated by the directives of Athens so-called. The Athenian memo. On the basis of this, the divided electricity sector in BiH because there are three, it is necessary, therefore, that the EU thinks that such a market cannot function, that there is no longer a national or state market, that the market must be integrated. And to integrate, it is necessary to reform the energy site, which means it cannot be connected by verticals within an entity or by two systems in one entity, but must be done in such a way that this is respected, these principles. On the basis of this, a law was also made between the rest on the frustration of the transmission company or the power transmission company in BiH. It also divides existing systems and specifically separates transmission companies, i.e. for production and distribution companies. To briefly refer to this Law establishing a power transmission company where it is regulated means the objectives of the purpose and way of functioning or forming of this company. The Serbian delegates' club considered and made its proposals on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, however, with consultants we had different opinions and I would now comment on them. Therefore, the law is based on the Law on the System Operator Regulator and on the transposition adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly on 21 March and 12 February 2002, respectively. You will see that there are some disagreements, i.e. not in accordance with both laws, which is not good, which means we have to do something to bring these laws into line. Which were the basics of our observations. So we do not dispute the need for reform of the energy system and the establishment of a Joint Transfer Company by the principles set out in this law. However, what is stated here and we think, first of all, is not a well done translation. Apparently, a consultant house has made this bill and it is not well translated, so it has some ambiguity and illogicality. Also, a lot of the law, I'm sorry that we didn't have before that initiative to regulate BiH legislation, means precisely prescribed to say the law-making technology, that one law must be clear and precise. There's a lot of inaccuracy here in this law, which is not good under the law itself. I'm not saying it was intended to make inaccuracies, but I think it was clumsyly translated or clumsyly formulated. Also, the law is quite general, so some of the provisions should not stand in law, should stand in 57 other sublaws, which are company statutes and company rules. So, some of us are, some questions and some of the tasks are put at the level of the law and their place is in sublaws. Our main observation was why so many forks were given, given such great authority to an independent board member. Teached by experience from the earlier period, and knowing that the energy sector in total at BiH level is extremely important and significant, that it has high-level personnel, well-trained personnel and has a respectable resource and that it would not pass as other transition companies that were strategic and were not insignificant, then we have given caution to our view of how this transition should be approached. What do I want to say to the team? I think we've accidentally or perhaps easily destroyed many of the technologies that have been at the world level. Here's what we're going to say about Sarai. Two Energoinvest companies, i.e. UNIS, which were globally technological, participated in the world market of former Socialist Self-Government, etc. Yugoslavia but they were getting jobs, which means they had receptive personnel and technologies. We've easily destroyed it, and now we've got nothing to do with it. Trained by this, the people of the electricity industry were worried that electricity would happen as well. For what? Because there is a restructuring of the economy, i.e. the electricity industry, so that the Transfer Company is separated from three parts, a single transmission at BiH level is real and production companies become stock companies where they clean up what is not related to production. So there's a lot of material resources. In order for these material assets not to be alienated or left without control, then we wanted and we thought that the obligation must be a manageable structure, administrative structures so that they manage these funds and that they do not alienate. As a result, it was our observation that this independent member could not be given so much authority and that it was given to the boards of directors or the governments of entities. Also, the boundaries of the demarcation, between the transmission company and the production company, i.e. the distribution company, are not clear in the law. There's still some misunderstandings and doubts left. Our proposal was to make this clear, however, the consulting house felt that it should remain in this original form. On the basis of all this, and knowing the importance of this law, the Club of Serbian Delegates considered these remarks also because of the importance and shortness of time, the club accepts these proposals and suggestions and remains therefore to be accepted specifically in the amendments of Mr Genjac, who took over those amendments, means the Club of Serbian delegates accepts the amendment and returns it to the original text. We feel that we will have time and will be taught the experience of working in the process and repairing this law on a portable company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2855	Here we heard Mr. nadeti Radović who is a man of the profession whether, I call on colleagues if we do not have further discussions to adopt this law in the first reading, so we will go to the second reading with this here is how nada mentioned a little earlier to Mr. Halid Genjac's amendments. Who is it for us to adopt the Law on the transmission of electricity in the first reading? So, unanimously as I see it. Thank you very much, colleagues. Please move to discussion and try to pass the law in a second reading. So, the law we received was adopted in the House of Representatives by 11 amendments, no. The Commission accepted 11 amendments that became an integral part of the text of the bill. I would like to hear from a colleague of the president of this committee, who discussed these 11 amendments and adopted these 11 amendments. So they're in... the text. Now let's go, these five, please, new amendments to Mr. Halid Genjac. Please Halid Genjac yes, you've got those amendments if, you have them. I'm asking Halid Genjac to make his amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2856	As said at the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the present committee, for the amendment phase, 11 amendments were adopted on the commission of the law. Most of these amendments were adopted by the Commission, most votes were adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Using the business possibility of Article 89(1) that any member of this Parliament or delegate may dispute amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee if he delivers them to the House of Peoples in time, I have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure delivered 5 amendments that dispute 5 amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, believing that the other 6 amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission are at this time possible for the reasons of further compromise to remain. Amendment number I, to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, was adopted an amendment to delete the words in Article 2 at the beginning of Article 3 above – except with the prior approval of the Derk, so that the company will not be engaged in activities, etc. By adopting this amendment, the internal non-synchronisation of Article 2 was created because further parameters, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 talk about the criteria for the Derk to do what was deleted in this amendment, in paragraph 3, so that Article 2 would remain completely insinuated and insecure. One option is excluded for Derk to work and then paragraph 4, 5 and 6 describes the criterion of how Derk will do it. For these reasons, I have proposed this amendment to add words in Article 2 at the beginning of Article 3 – except with the prior approval of the Derk and the whole member then remains the same as he was and then has his composition and, of course, agrees on how important it is to Article 2 as it is at the House of Representatives. So, I'd pray that maybe one amendment at a time unless there's a debate, I'd stick around here, after the vote to go next. Then let's explain everything, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2857	59 Yes, since Nada accepted it,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2858	Amendment II concerns Article 10(3) of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the definition of the production trafo station has been introduced. And it's a good idea to introduce the idea of a production trafo station, i.e. to explain what a production trafo station is and on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, an amendment has defined what it is. However, this definition differs partly from the definition made by experts and consultants and the definition found by one compromise after one year of consideration, observation, etc. For these reasons, I suggest that in Article 3 in point 10, the definition should be changed and that the definition reached by this compromise and long-term talks should be the definition of a production trafo station. Such content is also in the House of Representatives. amandman III, in Article 5(2) of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, an amendment has been adopted that the Governing Board of Electricity in BiH, with the consent of the entity governments, approves of the transposition by the deadlines set out in these laws, what will remain in the company for production and distribution, what in the transmission company etc. I suggested that he return the original solution and be an independent member of the Management Board, that he approves of the transfer. What's the reason? The reason is that these past experiences and conversations and experts and the authors of the laws and consultants show that they are very difficult and tiring conversations, where these borders are and that there is a possibility that this negotiation of electricity might significantly take time and slow down this process. Therefore, it was left in the original text the possibility that an independent member of the Management Board would do so, in a way, to arbitration. I note that a different content of this amendment has been adopted at the House of Representatives and from what has been adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee with us and what I propose. A compromise solution was adopted. Namely, to try to find a solution, to try to agree, and if they do not find a solution, an independent member enters the scene within a certain period of time, and he makes the decision. So if we adopt this amendment today, we will probably have to agree on this article with the House of Representatives and for me it is personally acceptable and this compromise solution because the main goal is to avoid prolonging and wasting time on things that are not possible. It's simple for understandable reasons. Amendment IV, definition of what Mr Radović spoke about in more detail, definition in the original text, one definition we adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I don't think any definition is ideal. However, this definition, which was in the original text and which I propose to return to this amendment IV, is the result of a compromise that has also been achieved for a long time and which, after long talks, has reached that possible definition. I do, therefore, that it will be easier to implement and work by definition which was the result of some agreements, compromises, representatives of all power companies, than some definition that would now introduce new problems and new ambiguities. 60 Amendment V, in Article 5(6), states that if it deals with something else, it will have to take care of the functioning of the electricity system as adopted by the amendment on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. In the original text, it would make sure that the electricity transmission system was not compromised. And I propose to return not to the entire power system but to the transmission system, because this law deals with the power transmission company and this, it defines the company and its issues and other laws and other border areas will, of course, be regulated by those laws. I mean, there's a lot of reasons, and Mr. Radović said that in this area is more and more invited, and it's also his profession, and I'm saying this isn't some ideal, final solution, it's going to be necessary to synchronise all the legislation in this area, but at this point this is some level of compromise that I think it's achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2859	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. We heard, Genjac. I have one question. Please, I didn't hear exactly who this independent boss is responsible for. Who he's responsible for, I don't know. Here you go, Hope. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2860	With all due respect, I've been given consent, but I have an obligation to say something else. Look, we passed the law, I led him to Article 6. The law on the transfer of the regulator and the independent operator has been said to be formed by the Advisory Committee, here is exactly what it says, which will do this. Now we've told this law, we'll do it by the board of directors, but it's an independent member. So, completely contrary to these two laws that are, which will be in force. I think an independent member is the one as a compromise solution. So, someone who's going to make the fastest, most efficient division, there's another derrogation of the Derk, here is also said in this law that Derk has the right to veto and everything, put out of force unless it's in accordance with his decisions. And we're in this law of ours... that we rule out Derk during that transitional period. So these are some disagreements that we have objectively warned them about, but again I say in order to work more efficiently, to form a company faster because we are late, we agree with this thing that needs to be agreed on, to change this according to this law that we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2861	Hope, it's not nice to ask you, but I'm asking you, can this guy make a decision to sell the electricity industry?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2862	He can't, he can't, he can't, you're gone, you're gone. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2863	That's what's important. Thank you very much. We heard all these arguments. You know, these formulations of the High Representative I very often don't understand, so I need someone to always explain. No, it doesn't need English, it needs something else. Thank you very much. Here, let's take this one, let's see it further. Is there any further discussion? Please, we will now vote on Mr. Halid Genjac's amendments. We're voting on the first amendment, it can't be in the package. We're voting on the first amendment. Who's for Mr. Halid Genjac's first amendment? Thank you very much. So, no abstentions, unanimous. Thank you. So 1 abstention. Please, we're voting on Mr. Halid Genjac's second amendment. Who's in? Who's being held back? Thank you very much. The amendment has passed. We're voting on Mr. Halid Genjac's third amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? 12 - 3 We vote on Mr Halid Genjac's fourth amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who is, then, the amendment has passed. We're voting on Mr. Halid Genjac's fifth amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? 3 There is no one against, so this amendment V. has passed. sad I am putting the law to the vote with these amendments anyway. Who's in favor of this law? Who's restrained? 1 thank you very much. So the law passed with these amendments. Please, since the law in the House of Peoples and the law in the House of Representatives has not been adopted in the same text, it is necessary to create a Commission for text alignment. I propose to the commission of Mr. Radović, Mr. Genjac and of the Croats I propose a gentleman, and I suggest I have the right to suggest and so can you, I suggest Spajić. Thank you. 62 Please, that's your suggestion I'm proposing on behalf of the Bosniak Club Mr. Genjac. Here you are, Filipović, on behalf of the Croatian Club, Spajić well. You in the name of, Boško in the name of
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2864	(?) Mr. Nada Radović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2865	Well, nothing's changed. Who's in? Well, I think Filipović is proposing you. Now it's clear to me that Filipović wants to be on the committee. Because he wants his colleague Spajić like that. Who's in? Thank you very much. Thirteenth agenda, Add.13. Proposal for a law establishing an independent co-opter of the system transfer system to BiH, the first reading of the House of Representatives passed this law in both the first and second readings with six amendments. Please, Mr Filipović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2866	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I'd just like to report to this House, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission and you've got the report, so she's done her part of the job, but after the Constitutional and Legal Commission on January 20th, I remind myself 120 days ago, she did her part of the work on this bill... she's been raised as we Hrvat like to say both hip and hoarse, and we've heard here a syntagma, we've lost time, let's hurry, wait, adopted the House of Representatives, etc. So it's something that has nothing to do with reality, because in a drawer to keep for 120 days, so after the competent commissions have done their part of the job, to keep the law in a drawer to buy time, to figure out all the factors where it can be, unfavorably accepted amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I think it's something that we should clearly notice here and that in the future we don't do without regard to our interests that we do through this lobbying. So, as for the waste of time, I came out here to say that I want to refer to the amendment tabled, in relation to everything the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done, there is only one amendment that has been adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it is the seat. So, I, the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, must defend...proposes and decisions and amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but I also do so as a Mostarac because it is a seat that is being moved from Sarajevo under the adopted amendments to Mostar. I will remind only that Derk is in Tuzla, that the company, we passed the law just now in Banja Luka, and that NOS was scheduled in Sarajevo and that it was forgotten, 63 forgotten Mostar. I'm not going to elaborate for long, I'm going to be able to do it for a long time, I know everything that's been done, I know everything that who and what for, but I'd like to deny a completely unfounded argument that built lobbying and even got the international community for such a thing, in a lupe mode, that it's too expensive work to move NOS from Sarajevo to Mostar, and tears from the crocodile international community pour over the fate of the troubled Mostar. The headquarters of a state-owned institution in Mostar, which does not and does not reside in BiH when it comes to the headquarters of any state institution in BiH, has no seat in Mostar. I'm undermining any of them. We discussed it in the first part of our session. So, I told you the headquarters of these three companies as planned and it was quite logical that since there is not one seat of this state-owned institution in Mostar, that that is how the Constitutional and Legal Commission is determined, it is how I am here to defend this position. I think we'll stay at that destination because that's the only logical thing to do. Please, there's four hydroelectrics on Neretva. One hydrocenter is in the Window or Rama and one pump-accumulated hydrocenter or power plant in Capljina. It's six power plants in Mostar, the headquarters of Herzegovina. In addition, one of the largest electricity consumers is aluminium in Mostar. I want this argument presented, this is all recorded, this is a record, it's going to remain a clue, let it remain an argument and let it remain if a non-discipline decision happens this, something that has no basis, let it be seen here at least that someone has spoken reasonedly and that one lobbyist decision has arisen against these arguments. The fourth argument, the very important thing that I want to mention here, is one big, strong hub, one big trafo station, Točula in Mostar next to Mostar in Krushev. And not to mention, about the proximity of RS power plants, Gacko thermal power plants and the Trebišice River, what experts know about what that means as a potential at all. We therefore, by discussing some mandatory points, have reached one conclusion here when we discussed the headquarters of institutions that should be dislocated from all over BiH and given one practical, concrete act to every citizen that BiH does not only live in Sarajevo. So, we are, is that what I mean, Mr. Spasojević, when we talked about the criteria proposed by the distinguished colleague Neimarlija, then we said that the Council of Ministers is taking care of four, five things, political, so here's the political decision. We do not respect this criterion, we ask the Council of Ministers to keep this criterion in mind when it deploys to us future institutions and their seats in relation to that list provided by the Directorate for European Integration. Social services, even there, are supposed to be working. You know, Mostar was once before the war of 46 thousand workers. It's now a pathetic figure that I don't think it can reach, here's a minister here from the Resort Ministry, not to exceed 10,000 employees in Mostar, besides all the capacities in the city. So we ignore that element. Economically, I don't want to talk. Territorial, not one seat I told you wasn't in Mostar and that functional factor, as Mr. Neimarlija called it, so he's quite clear. 64 And to end, therefore, these are such strong arguments, that it is hard to have this, to have courage, not to accept this amendment to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to transfer the seat to Mostar based on this argument. So I'll just tell you one more sentence, which is practice in Europe. It is a practice in many countries that national, therefore state-run management centres, such as the independent system of operators we speak of, are located alongside large power plants. I'll make an example of it. It's a 400 kilowatt substation that doesn't have to be near the capital. In Europe, there are two management centres for the entire European energy network. Look, all of Europe's energy grid, experts, fahmen, I see you here listening to me, deny this if it's incorrect. So, one of these is located in Laufenburg, Switzerland near the Swiss-German border, and the other is Braunweiner near Kelna in Germany. Isn't that enough reason to have NOS headquarters, so I have the lab, so those fake 19 figures and the change of millions of marks that need to be spent in order to lose this one, to move the seat, so there's a completely different design that speaks of a far, far lower figure. So it speaks of that it is not harmful at all, but it is extremely positive that this one, therefore, follow this example and respect something called that nothing from BiH, from institutions does not live in Mostar. I ask you nicely, to bear in mind all this argument regarding the renewed amendment, the honourable representative of Mr Genjac, that the seat from Mostar which entered the basic text be returned to Sarajevo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2867	Thank you very much. Here's what we're gonna do first, Mr. Neimarlija. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2868	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow delegates, guests, this is not a replica, and I did not come out because my colleague Filipović mentioned me, although there could be reasons for removing any concerns. I went out to express my disagreement with my colleague Filipović's procedure because this is not the first time today, and we had the same case at the previous session, related to the presentation of the Commission's position on the Law on Higher Education. All the things that my colleague Filipović was saying, of course, and he has a lot of right to say, but I'm afraid that this one, spoke as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, things that he could and should have said in the capacity of one of the delegates in the House of Peoples, which, to be honest, are not in the arguments that he used and in the valuable determination of attitudes which is indeed the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which are not characteristic and for his, I mean are not characteristic of his language, such as the Lupeci way, tears of crocodiles, the only logical solution, etc. That I don't list fake numbers, etc. I mean, I really don't think they're this characteristic of a fellow Filipović 65.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2869	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2870	But the thing is, I didn't react last time, so I need to react. As a representative of the Constitutional and Legal Commissionkolega Filipović had the obligation and the right to refer to the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that, in a measure of how much it is necessary and to explain the decision or position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but we have the right to this, to present our personal position on this matter as the chairman of the Commission and to represent the Commission's position. Therefore, I do not agree with the way my colleague Filipović presented the committee's position on the law mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2871	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2872	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am highly esteemed and esteemed by my especially respected colleague, Hilmo Neimarlija, for two reasons. First, I was so raised, and secondly, that Mr. Neimarlija was one of the vice presidents of this, the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So it gives me the right to say what I said. I must say that and correct Mr. Neimarlija's false allegations, he will understand it and understand it, I am here with my dictionary, in the way I have judged it important, important, to enter into the ear of someone that argument, more strongly used by one dictionary which is not quite true is the daily of my statement, but I have come out here as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to defend something which is the decision of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and by the Rules of Procedure of this esteemed House, I am obliged to defend the decisions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as its chairman. And which I'm going to do with the dictionary, let it be my right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2873	Thank you very much. I'm calling Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2874	Dear colleagues, honored guests, I will limit my debate to only one part of this topic. Mr Filipović said something broader, I won't repeat it, but I fully support his debate and all the arguments he has made, I find them very strong and convincing, and if we could measure them with those contradictory arguments, I find them significantly stronger and incomparably more convincing to me. I wouldn't comment on the dictionary. I would only say that Mr Filipović was one part of his presentation at least I understood so, said as the chairman of the committee and the other part spoke as one of us. And in that sense, I understand. I will comment here on two letters that came from two addresses and treat the same problem, which is the question of the cost of moving NOS from Sarajevo to Mostar. One 66 question, one letter, one document was addressed by ZECC, and the other by the Elektroprivreda Herceg Bosnia of Mostar. These two letters speak of the same problem and the same question and differ only in 170 and something and 5 times their amount. So this is talking about the seriousness of these two documents. Which is more serious, and I will dare even judge it. I think it's closer to the real price of this from Mostar, 115 thousand and this is 19 million and 200 thousand marks. I don't know, I think sometimes someone, so maybe I'm going into that trap too, when we're trying to explain something, what we're up for, then we think we're gonna be a little bit more convincing, actually, we're going to fall into the trap that we're kind of blowing it up, and then it gets a little bit funny. Well, I believe this letter here from ZECC has just become a little funny and declassified. That's what I dare say responsibly, I repeat. Why? Because here some of the largest items, such as 11 million KM, are the costs of the EBRD's one-year delay. These are the assumed costs and other, the cost of cancelling the loan swap of 2 million 700,000 marks. Either another item speaks of this largest, million marks retraining or another item, the cost of moving thinks they should make good, family home concoctions or at least 100 square apartments for each employee, very interesting. If this is the way we plan the costs for anything, then we'd come to the conclusion that we can't, and I'm saying, we'll never do anything and then we'll never do anything, if this is the cost we're planning. So, I'm going to repeat they shouldn't have been this unrealistic, no matter who this is, I appreciate these people being experts in their own branch, I'm not contesting it. They probably are, I appreciate them, but I also resent them very seriously for writing to us so irresponsiblely as the Parliamentary Assembly. Here it would be realistic to say what the real costs were, so they said the building cost no million, two but five, I'd say it would be a little more luxurious so five, let's make it five. If they had said that some of the costs I don't know the intel on millions of 790 thousand marks, I'd say a little bit, but I'm not going to comment on that, too, but these items are really, really, really, really, really hard to justify in these amounts. I will also comment briefly on the letter from Mostar. Again, I think that these people appreciate that it is important and they want it to happen that NOS headquarters is in Mostar, that some of the costs have been ignored again, thinking of, of course, in a good way that something like a building and something else, already exists or there is a similar one that could turn with little changes in this purpose for which it is planned. Of course, they are not paid at all at some cost which are not objectively the cost of moving, but the costs are neither I nor I know life, stay, the work of these people etc. Training if it is done, certain people, then these people should appreciate that this society, this state or some of its companies have invested in their training, education and specialization, and not to blackmail it, I have heard the untested is I will say this and fence the information so that they do not want to go anywhere but from Sarajevo. I mean it's like this for me, the reason I don't want to mention it at all as a reason, I'd laugh at it even a little bit, etc. So, conditionaling on anyone to pass the law to someone's wishes are totally unacceptable to me. And here I am really going to finish. I think it was a mistake this time. First of all, with a great delay of 121 days, so exactly how many days have passed since the end of the commission phase under these laws and could have been done long before, however 67 were obviously waiting for something. Mr Filipović said that it took time to determine whether it was lobbying etc. for a different solution. I don't think it's really the most important thing here, whether this seat is going to be in Mostar or Sarajevo. There's actually something more showing up here, which is that it seems to me that someone cares more about not being something but being something. So this is my free grade. It's like it's a big sin or a big failure to make one of the seats happen in Mostar. This is a bit of a difficult qualification, but this has happened to me as it happened, it's given me the right to think like this. I'd be happy if I could speak differently, but for any other way of speaking, I have no arguments but for this. However, I do hope that, in accordance with our today conclusion under the point on BiH institutions' headquarters, the Council of Ministers will propose quality and good criteria for us and that, in a good quality debate together with here, the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers, we will come up with a quality solution on the seats of newly founded BiH institutions where, in my opinion, we will certainly find a place and one that I see either injustice or I do not know, and yet here is the opportunity to achieve a slightly better and better balance in the schedule of these institutions' seats. Here, I thank everyone. If I've been a little rougher, I apologize to everyone but I've been so kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2875	Here we heard our colleague Jukić. Is anyone else picking up? So we've exhausted the discussion at this level. I'm putting the motion to vote so we can pass the law in our first reading. Who's in? Who's restrained? One, no one's against it. Thank you very much. So let's go now and have a discussion and I suggest we do the discussion in another reading. You've reached the Commission's report. The Commission has adopted seven amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the bill. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendment was filed by Mr. Halid Genjac. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2876	Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has adopted seven amendments. Most amendments, mostly votes. They're not unanimous amendments. I would like to remind only the interdepartmentary that the change in the word – management in the administration, that it is introduced that the Director-General proposes members of the administration, that the representation of the constituent peoples in the board of directors is required, and that this change is done by the government instead of the prime minister of entity governments, that it is added that it is understood that the Directors-General are the two Executive Directors-Generals of the various constituent peoples, that the requirement is therefore added to the law that the Director-General and Chairman of the Management Board 68 cannot be from the same constituent people, so these are the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives and I would say that these amendments possess a certain amount of compromises. Reiterating Article 89, point 1. The Rules of Procedure, which therefore points to the possibility of submitting amendments that bring down amendments adopted at the House of Representatives, I have tabled one amendment and I will try to defend it somewhat, not using all the means available to do so, but using some of the arguments. Of course, I respect the opinion of every delegate, fellow Members, but of course I respect both the arguments and the facts, and based on these arguments we also create our own opinions and I expect that my opinion should be treated in the same way as other colleagues, because otherwise we will find ourselves in the area of the Lupe Groups, which I do not think is the level of this Parliament. The letter of ZECC and the letter of the Elektroprivreda which treats this problem and which in some way explain the argument and the basis for the delegations and MPs to be assigned to one or another variant is what should be relevant for the job, delegates who possess both intelligence and reason, etc. I note that the cost assessment has not been done by some interested group that is strictly interested in its positions. The first assessment was that the cost of moving would be up to 15 million, and then one group of experts from the independent, representatives of the European Bank who is interested here in the loan he is giving, has made an assessment and that is an estimate of 19 million and 200. I'm really not in a position to arbitration, but some things I think are undeniable. The data on how much was spent on the current ZEKC system in Sarajevo are data that are, that's 3.5 million and that's it. ZECC argues that a parallel facility must be built, the electricity industry believes no parallel facility is needed. Not one modern dispatch facility can be transferred without prior construction of a parallel object and checking that the system works, that the system is tested because the risk to the system is enormous. The electricity industry says the electricity industries of neighbouring countries can take over the functions of ZECC during resettlement. So the electricity companies of neighbouring countries are doing what the ZECC is currently doing in the course of the move. I don't know how convincing that is. Costs of installation of the shrimp (?) ZECC systems, full system control. Savings on the skydiving system and earnings per year, i.e. savings from savings if 11 million were to be delayed, and these are simple facts. It can't be treated one way or another because it's measurable. Currently, the re-innovation of ZECC with Western Europe of aprocess begins in July 2004, and cannot be disturbed. The dispatch center functions are daily. The European Bank has offered a 50m loan. The same bank is reasonable to hold views on the loan, and the bank says, in the event of a slowdown, the transfer of credit is cancelled. Credit cancellation costs are measurable, they're a fact everywhere in the world. The cost of insurance of a new loan is measurable, they are a fact in all banks and everywhere in the world. Therefore, by respecting the opinion of each colleague, I have based my opinion 69 on these arguments and especially on the fact that there are real possibilities for a regional centre for the whole region, i.e. the Balkan region, in Sarajevo NOS. Very serious, very promising opportunities exist to be and it is also likely that insistence on the EBRD's loan and all of these likely, counting on possible that possibility. For these reasons, I have therefore chosen to submit an amendment to the NOS headquarters in Sarajevo. At no time contesting the need for BiH institutions to decentralisation. However, in a way that benefits both BiH and those cities in which institutions are decentralised. I'm afraid it would be a problem here. Of course, we all have arguments, extensive letters, etc. and I really think we made that argument on both the Constitutional and Legal Commission and here today, etc. I don't want to go any further. You still have the... the amendment, but it's my deep belief that it would be rational for it to be in Sarajevo, and that's why I suggested this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2877	We heard Mr. Genjac's exposure to his amendment. Mr. Jukić reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2878	I don't tend to replicate it, otherwise it's not a practice of my work, but I'm still going to have to replicate it on one claim because I think it was a mistake to say it to a respected representative or really thinks so. And that's when he said the evaluation wasn't done by an interested group. It just did, because the interested group is just Zekc. So this is a letter from ZECC and ZECC signed these numbers here, arguments and eventually summed it up in 19 million and 200 thousand KM. So there's no one more interested in this country directly except them. That's them. Tomorrow they're going to get a new name that says in the law that it already is, etc. And one more thing, also about these costs, therefore, assumed and this is the cost of one-year delay in the EBRD project. I am not convinced nor has there been valid arguments, that the seat in Mostar necessarily assumes the delay of a year of realization of this project. It says something quite different here, three months, which I don't think is even unrealistic because we have many other preconditions than schooled, trained staff, information equipment, people say there's even space, etc. But I really wouldn't go any further, so just some of these things I wanted to clarify, and I wouldn't really want to even apologize on this replica, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2879	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Boško Šiljegović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2880	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since we on the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted the amendment that is an integral part of the text of the law, the representatives of the amendment, and I repeated it yesterday at a meeting with Ambassador Hejs at the head of Mrs. Vilson, then convinced me that hydroenergy potentials at the site of 70 Herzegovina and Mostar, including this part of RS Trebišnica, Termoelectrica Gacko, etc. Perhaps I and my colleague, Radović, were then determined to vote in favour of the amendment. Last night, in an hour's conversation between club bosses and members of the College, we were presented with new moments. Let's talk about this discrepancy from 115 to 19 million, but it's been said that moving would cost up to 15 million. In order for this move to cause a delay in the law until one year and an argument with which people last night explained that it would be harmful for the seat to be in Mostar and not in Sarajevo, this argument of the funds invested, which are about 3.5 million and for these reasons, since this seemed confusing to us in one period, and in another. Here I'd like to suggest on my own behalf, not on behalf of the club that we hear a representative of the legislator I think of gentlemen from.....a short-circuited relationship with Mrs. Vilson and probably in this new situation she'll be leading us to vote on Mr. Genjac's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2881	Thank you very much. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers have an explanation for this?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2882	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, there is much to be said about the NOS headquarters and I in front of the Foreign Trade Ministry cannot say with confidence that these statements are correct. Of course, these are sources from ZECC and other sources from Elektroprivreda. We're not even capacitated to give that kind of assessment, so in terms of these moving costs. The fact is that and I agree with most of what is said here for this speaker, that these costs should certainly be said in a way that is precisely the cost of moving, which they are, but I want to say to this occasion something that I think is important and crucial when it comes to this seat, and that is this process that we are facing, and this delay, the real delay that we already have in this sector, and we are aware that the electricity potential in BiH is extremely large and significant, and that this is one comparative advantage that should grow from that potential sector into real quality resources that we can realise towards the market, while still proposing these legal solutions, to create one of the most qualitative positions for BiH. The remaining one is a very important fact that if Sarajevo remains the NOS headquarters in Sarajevo, it will be run with great chances of becoming, which I cannot confirm will be, and a regional centre in all the talks I have had. It has always been indicated with some intentions that we are still going in that direction, if of course we are proposing another solution, it would be a clear signal that we are practically giving up such a candidacy. We believe that if we are the only country in the region currently exporting electricity, and from that point of view means that we have an offer, which we can therefore place on other markets, it was important to achieve one such role in the region. Of course, later that region would grow and be integrated into the electricity market of the entire European Community. 71 The delay process, that's what's the key thing here. So, if there are delays, cancellations of these loans, there are practically the highest costs and we can measure it that BiH is losing large amounts by now, we can say that we have lost and there are estimates. And these are estimates in the sense that we can make very large incomes based on the rents that we charge only for the transfer of electricity through BiH territory. We're still not using that possibility either, now we're going to build a phase III project, where we work means this power line of our company just like you said. So a consortium of domestic companies headed by Energoinvest and we will soon have this four hundred kilowatt power line, which will connect from north to south BiH and will practically attract a large part of the traffic across our territory. And based on that and a big income from the rent. The second part about being late in this sector is that we are restructured this electricity sector, we are creating one favourable conditions and climate for attracting foreign investment. It doesn't take much to say how important it is for BiH to attract these foreign investments. I'm sure there's a question now how much of what I'm saying has to do with the seat. I said at the very beginning that really as far as costs are concerned, I can't say for myself whether, I can only say that one and another amount is not correct. That's for sure, that's what everyone agreed but to go into further analysis, that's what I'm really not going to take for granted. I would ask only the honourable MPs that since this is practically the final stage, we are ahead of the second reading of this law, which was adopted here in the House of Representatives, that we still bring this process to an end and that practically these activities that follow after the adoption of these laws, the practical implementation of the law that is very important, very important, and that this process is finally starting to mean to us and that clock that is ticking on us, starts knocking in that other direction, the one that is much more quality, more positive, more profitable for BiH. I think that's the most important thing for us at this point, not getting too real into this problem that here is very clearly said here that we should and the Council of Ministers is just when we propose three laws, if I can still supplement that now have nothing to do with this law. And these are the laws on standardisation institutes of measurement, intellectual property, we took care to propose seats, so it was proposed to be Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar and thus the Council of Ministers shows its readiness to take care of regional accession to BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2883	Thank you, Mr. Doko. Is there a need for further discussion? So, we've exhausted the debate as much as I feel. Now, what's normal, I'm going to put Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment to the vote. Whoever is to adopt Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment to this first amendment is one. Who's for adoption, for acceptance of the amendment? So 8 is in, 72 who's restrained? Which one? 5 So 8 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. So the amendment has passed. We've exhausted, and I hope to correct it through this amendment, but is there still, then, after this, someone answering for a word? No, good. We vote on the law, so we vote on the Law in establishing an independent transmission system operator in BiH. Who's up for the law? Who's restrained? Which one? So 2 abstentions, 3 versus, 9 for. And the law has been passed. Thank you very much. Since the laws have been adopted in different texts, in one home and another, please welcome club presidents to propose candidates for harmonisation of the law. Yes, thank you very much. In front of the Hrvat klub, Mr Tomislav Limov. So Mr. Haid Genjac, Mr. Nada Radović and Mr. Tomislav Limov. Who's in? Anybody got any abstentions? There's one for principle reasons. So we adopted the commission. Thank you very much. Paragraph 14 of the agenda, Ad.14. Application to consider the law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, please, I have one here... this law today was on the agenda of the House of Representatives and I think the MPs have split up on this bill and they've broken up the Assembly, they've interrupted the session and I'm asking and I suggest that we take this law off the agenda and predict it, we don't reject it and leave it for the next assembly. Here you go, Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2884	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this House has a conclusion on the adoption of the law and that we have regulated this conclusion that we do not adopt the laws before the House of Representatives, I suggest that we postpone this law, in fact, the adoption of these 73 amendments to postpone the opinion of the House of Representatives, i.e. until the adoption of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2885	Thank you very much. And that's, so we agree. Here, I'll put this to a vote. Who's to postpone this law for the next session? Who's in? Are we unanimous? Anybody got any abstentions? One of the next sessions. So we unanimously postpone this law. Fifteen. The 15th item of the agenda is Ad.15. Information on the licences issued for the export/import of arms and military equipment in 2003. You've received a report from the committee in charge. Is there? This information. Is anyone there? I'm sorry, I can't see. Hello, I'm telling you, when you raise your hand, I think you want to write. Come on, please, I'm sorry. It's a grain. Please go to the future white card.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2886	A report by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina was discussed at the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of occasional and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers delivered 22.4.2004. Information on the licences issued for the export/import of arms and military equipment in 2003. The joint commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level at the 6th session held on 10.5.2004 discussed the information and took it into account. We've been presented with information. It was discussed on the Commission. There were questions. We have also received the answer to those questions raised on the Commission will be given to persons who have asked certain questions. So we don't say anything about information. I do not know we are pleading mostly the Commission has taken note and thus forwarded it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2887	74 Thank you very much. Is there a need, Mr. Doko? Thank you very much. Do we have, please, the need for discussion? So, may we say, Mr. Minister, go ahead. It can't, it can't. Always can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2888	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I really want to get involved and finish this, this information. I think this is really quality information and this is what Bosnia and Herzegovina should do in this process of joining the Partnership for Peace and we will make sure that even this information is published and that we have there and a presentation of what is quality. As far as the question is concerned, I am now not well informed, whether this is a matter of one delivery that was for one company in Israel, if this is, therefore, I can give information that it is only a test series, it is a matter of possible further sales, which, as far as we know, has never occurred. That's the information, if it's about the Commission, so I guess...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2889	Thank you very much. Please, here we have heard Mr. Doka's clarification. I think we can say that we've accepted this information, or that we've received it for knowledge. I don't honestly know if it's necessary to vote or not to vote, but mostly, let's say that we received this information and that, here we share Mr. Doka's opinion, our minister, that this is quality information and we agree and that it goes in, somewhere to affirm what BiH is doing. Thank you very much. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratification of the First Amendment of the Agreement to a credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development You have received a report from the competent commission. I would ask the President of the Commission to brief us on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2890	So, in short, it is a loan, i.e. a credit agreement between BiH and the European Bank, and it is only about changing the use of certain funds within the same user. Therefore, it is part of a change of purpose for the reconstruction of air traffic control facilities at Banja Luka airport and a feasibility study in connection with the construction of a road between Banja Luka and Gradiška, i.e. the Bosnian Gradiška airport. Given that this amendment has passed the necessary procedure and has received the support of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, the Commission was of the opinion that it should be suggested that this House be adopted. Thank you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2891	Thank the President of the Commission, Mr Cengic. I think you'd like to hear from someone for discussion. I'm putting it to the vote. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement, the Cedit Agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Who's in? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Ad.17. Giving consent to ratification of the second amendment to the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development also, Mr Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2892	At the same 18th session, the Commission also considered this issue. It is again a credit agreement between BiH and the European Bank. This time it is the user of the Elektroprivreda RS, i.e. specifically the Termopower plant or the Ugljevik Termocentrala. The original agreement envisioned around two million funds to be used for the new waste transport line, i.e. ash, is now proposed to be used to improve the filter. The equipment is already finished and the end-user is suggesting and requesting, proposes to accept this amendment and this amendment has passed the necessary procedure of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and, for this reason, since it is the same means for the same user, the Commission proposes to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2893	Thank you very much. Is there any need for any discussion? There isn't. I'm putting on a vote to give consent for the ratification of the agreement. So unanimous. Thank you, colleagues. No one's against it. There's no one abstentioned. Ad.18. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments Is there a need for the ministry? Thank you. Mr. Čengić, welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2894	Thank you. The Commission has also discussed this issue, as it is one, of an entirely ordinary agreement which BiH has already ratified more and since it is about Switzerland, we believe that this agreement is definitely necessary. The Commission suggests and 76 proposes to the House to accept, to give consent to the ratification of this agreement, and our wish in the Commission is to implement this agreement as soon as possible, i.e. to apply it in a way that gives us as much investment from Switzerland as possible in BiH, so that we first protect their investments and after ions of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2895	Thank you very much. We heard the Commission's position, Mr. Čengić's explanation. I'm putting it to a vote. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments. Who's in? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Do you mind? There isn't. So unanimous. Thank you. Ad.19. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement on scientific and technical co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, we called on the Commission to
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2896	The same committee also discussed the proposal for a ratification agreement at the same session, and we propose and propose that this home be given consent to ratification of this agreement, given that there is long co-operation, scientific and technical co-operation between the bih and Serbia-Montenegro, given that there are also a number of ongoing projects and, since we all believe that experience, knowledge and opportunities for further co-operation between these two countries are important and necessary and we think that this ratification of this agreement would make this whole process easier and accelerated. For this reason, we propose to give consent to the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2897	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Here, we heard the Commission's proposal. Who is it that we agree to ratify an agreement on scientific and technical co-operation between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro? Who's in? So unanimous. Now it's the 20th point of the agenda. Ad.20. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro Please welcome Mr Filipović. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2898	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd like to inform the House that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been considering this agreement and recommending to the House that I give consent to ratifying and at the same time want to triumphantly inform this House that there has been no amendments, that the sudden consent to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-0.u2899	Thank you very much. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Who is it that we agree to ratify the agreement between the Council of Ministers of the BBC and...? Who's restrained? There's no one here. No one's against it. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we would like to wear out this agenda, and I will now, given that this is, I hope this session, which I am last in this eight-month term that I have led. The next sessions will be held by my colleague Goran Milojević, and we will conduct that handover in that formal sense somewhere on 28 or 29 and we will do, most likely, one press conference, at which we will show what we have done and what we are not in this mandate. The session was completed at 6 p.m.
