ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15696	Honorable days and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I am opening the 49th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in addition to MPs at today's session, regular guests of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Embassy, representatives of the international community in BiH, representatives of the Council of Ministers, all present, as well as you MPs, or representatives of the media, have been invited once again, and I want to welcome the successful work of the 49th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, and at this session, we have one previous question. In fact, from the BiH Election Commission, yesterday I was informed that instead of Mr Munib Jusufović's mandate, I was assigned to Mrs Senija Kapetanović, the next qualified candidate from the Party for BiH. Mrs. Kapetanović, it is up to the House to give a solemn statement and thereby fully assume parliamentary rights and obligations. I urge Mrs. Kapetanović to join in giving a solemn statement. Please stand up. You will, Mrs. Kapetanović, repeat the text after me... the microphone, just turn around to hear you out, we begin by making a solemn statement. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15698	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15699	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15700	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15701	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15702	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15703	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15704	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15705	Dear Mrs Kapetanović, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and myself, I give you my sincerest congratulations, on this very solemn statement and I wish you a great deal of success in your work as MEPs of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15706	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15707	And now you can take your parliamentary bench in the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15708	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15709	We're going back to work. We have 39 MPs in the O.R. Trenutn now. I think today's session is attended by 40 actually MPs, one MP is probably busy somewhere right now. Only Mr Ibrahim Džedović is not present today, so I expect a number of conditions with 40 actually to be that of 40-41. Dear colleagues, you received a draft agenda for today's session, agreed at an extended session of the College, held on 22 December. The new points relative to the draft agenda you received in the call for the session have been marked. Today we had a session of the College and a session of the Extended College and we agreed to extend this decision, with the ratification of two other agreements and to include two more points of the agenda, compared to the agenda you received in today's session. Under f) should give the agreement under point f) 3.f of the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of the Financial Co-operation Framework Programme and under g) of the Agreement on Credit and Guarantee between the Government of BiH as a guarantor, the Government of the Federation of BiH as a sub-guarantee and Public Communal 3 Water and sewerage of Tuzla, as lender and Hungarian export-import bank. Then we agreed that the fourth item of the agenda we have the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms Export and Military Equipment. And the fifth item of the agenda is the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Tax on Transport of Products and Services and the Act on Excises of BiH. Dear colleagues, we have placed this fifth item of the agenda in the light of the way we work, today's work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This agenda, today, will also be respected by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is possible that the House of Peoples and this House, the laws on the sales of goods and services and the Act on Excises of BiH, can therefore adopt something different or we adopt something different. I hope that doesn't happen, but in case that happens, we need to finish the job today. And that's why this fifth item of the agenda was put in, to prepare the commission so that we don't re-invocate you here in the O.R. because the homes today will wait for each other, so that in the end when we leave this building tonight or today from this building, we have adopted these two laws in the same text or at least all possible efforts that need to be made, that we have adopted these laws and are only adopted if they are adopted in the same text. This is why this fifth item of the agenda is proposed, and this is therefore a proposal from the Extended College. In addition, as House Chairman, I propose, and the House will declare that as part of today's agenda as the fourth item of the agenda, the BiH Presidency's request to consider BiH's 2005 Budget and International Obligations proposal, under Article 105, is therefore an emergency procedure. And I propose that the fifth item of the agenda be the request of the BiH Presidency to discuss the draft law on the implementation of the BiH Budget and the international commitments for 2005, under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure, so emergency procedure. In case it was accepted by the House, then the fourth and fifth points would actually be the sixth and seventh points of the agenda. This is what I had in the introduction to say about the agenda. In the meantime, I received a written proposal from Mrs. Seada Palavrić, and that was the case at the college session. Mrs Palavrić suggests that today's session should include a report by the Commission on the alignment of the draft VAT law. This report by the Commission has not yet been received here, I have no information about whether the commission is working, they have some hints that it should be working today, but here are the proposals that have arrived so far. Of course, this is already an open debate on the agenda and here, please discuss the agenda. Mrs. Jelina Đurković, please. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15710	As far as I know, the VAT alignment committee has not even been in session. I'm a member of that committee, I didn't get a call, and I wouldn't even agree to sit down today and do it because I just wasn't informed that we should even sit down today, it could have happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15711	I thank Mrs Jelina Đurković, and I have given such information on occasion. So, the commission is not in session but I have a proposal from the MPs and I simply have to put the proposal on the House of Mrs. Sead Palavrić's statement, so Mr. Nikola Špirić, insolitate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15712	Thank you. I think you'll understand why I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda. Namely, the House of People has long been replaced by a member who could not participate in the work of this committee, and I really do not know for what reasons this commission has not been convened. Mrs. Đurković is absolutely right. Which is why the commission wasn't called on to comply with the text. And if we don't do it today, we have to respect it and I want to subdue the holidays that are coming, I don't know when the next session will be. Is it really necessary to spend so much time now if we don't have to do this, I think that today during the breaks this commission can sit down, because both homes are working and that all the members are here and when the report comes to the agenda, if the report is finished to discuss it, if it isn't finished, it's going to be on the next one, but it's a really sad thing because it takes us time to build a VAT infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15713	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a word, please. Then let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared, then Mr. Moanjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15714	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, it may be best not to conclude the agenda, because if someone remembers something by the end of the session, so that it remains open, so that we can justify that it is time for us this year to complete everything that BiH has to do and not discuss it. But I have to if someone doesn't know by accident from the MPs, I don't underestimate anyone, that five centuries ago, just five hundred years ago, the Palrment fought for the right to adopt the budget. It is the year of Parliament's right to debate and to adopt, unfortunately in BiH, we have not yet voted on this right, if we accept today that, under Article 105 of the procedure, take or leave, we adopt the Budget of BiH. I agree that the budget should be adopted, but I agree that MPs must have the right to discuss the budget. All those who have the responsibility to deliver the budget in time must know that you cannot enter Parliament with a procedure to take or leave, with the most important financial document. This is how it puts Parliament in a passive position when 5 discusses audit reports and spending frameworks, because we have not discussed whether this is enough. So, I ask you, even if we wanted to, I must warn that there is no business possibility that it will be settled in accordance with Article 105. There is the possibility of a member of 106 to shorten time, but no, we cannot shorten it in the procedure of Article 105 to vulgarize both members. Therefore, please, I have no objection and if the parliamentary majority, people today win the mood to do so but for the degree of the democratic relationship development within this Parliament, it should not be done. Nothing bad will happen if the budget is adopted on January 15th. Last year we adopted him unfortunately in August or September. But this is a time that requires an active response from Parliament when it comes to the budget. I have to say that I won't, so I'm saying that I won't support the expansion of the agenda with these points, neither the budget nor the budget law. I have to say that I haven't looked at the front page, I haven't seen a single digit, unless we're going to defend that it was signed by the International Monetary Fund and our government has packed it nicely. I don't doubt either of them, but I don't want to raise my hand as an MP for something I haven't seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15715	I appreciate it. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Let him prepare Mr. Milorad Živković is next reported on this monitor here at my place.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15716	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my esteemed colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate our new colleague, Mrs. Kapetanović, in the hope that we will work together on the face of the citizens of this country in accordance with her oath that we are here, it is good to remember thanks to our new colleague. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to cut this short, because there's a lot of work to do and not convince ourselves much, because we're going to go too far if we start to convince ourselves. I am the least said what my friend Mijo would say, focused on the proposal that BiH's budget is being discussed under Article 105 after it's five minutes before you suggested it was put on the table. And I don't think there's a parliament in the modern world that's adopted the budget on principle take it or leave it without even seeing it. And that is really the very bottom that this Parliament can find. The only thing bigger than this would be to change the BiH Constitution by article 105 today, take it or leave it, which, when all the two homes have gathered together, maybe we should try that too. The joke aside, I'd really like to ask you to put this budget in perspective as much as, so rationally flat, so much as it's a breach of Article 106. A Rules of Procedure which defines the way in which the budget is adopted. In fact, according to that article, we were supposed to have a budget proposal from the Presidency two months and more before we were 15.10. And if by any chance the Presidency had fulfilled that deadline, there would be no problem in bringing it to an end. And there's no further need to talk about it. 6 As for the Commission's report on VAT that was proposed here, the least I could say would be enough of what Mrs. Jelina said that as a member of the commission she has not yet met, so that would be sufficient reason to give in today. But what is even more important is why, I think, Mr. Chairman, since behind this insertion of the agenda point is actually hiding an attempt to adopt what this House has adopted or has sworn to change, the Commission's report has already created pressure by the Council of Ministers and some leading parties, to introduce a VAT without a zero rate, with a single rate and a commission should agree. And since that would mean simplistically speaking, introducing a tax on poverty would be our turn to get that report a few days earlier, if we who are against it could at least invite the public to say what they think of such a report. And so, I ask you, please, to make a statement about both the budget and this in the hope that it will really overcome the sense to the extent that I expect you to withdraw those two proposals as chairman, if not, then unfortunately we'll put it to the vote, so I hope we don't have a majority to go further in the sun.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15717	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm supposed to answer now, but here, I won't, in the end I will, at least when my suggestions are at stake. Mr. Milorad Živković, get ready for Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. So I can follow, we have Mr. Belkić here, we have Momčilo Novaković, Joza Križanović, Mr. Kunić. Okay, I'm allowing myself to make a mistake in order, Mr. Kunić, because some people, we need to agree on how to answer. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15718	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me just express my protest in the way the last session is over, I simply think it was wrong that the conclusion I gave up on a regular basis, not to vote on it. At least I deserved to explain why that conclusion was not put to the vote. I remind Parliament that it was the conclusion that the Council of Ministers gave written information until the next session, that would be a good basis for that thematic session that some MPs spoke about and good practice in this Parliament and the Rules of Procedure gave me the right to propose a conclusion for any part of the agenda, and that is what my protest is about. On the other hand, at the extended SNSD college, he said he would accept these points on the first three agendas to get BiH out of the so-called. The black hole that has been mentioned here several times, that part of the work that the Council of Ministers has so far had to do, Parliament takes responsibility and this way puts the agenda points that are very important. However, it is obvious that some MPs and some clubs have continued to rape, and they suggest the agenda points that neither the business nor the constitutional nor any other college reason to come to the agenda today. Something Mr Špirić spoke about, and I also say, that the SNSD will not support the agenda, which will discuss the issue of the VAT commission and especially not the budget, especially since we have a lot of questions for those who propose the budget. Who proposed the budget to the Presidency, whether the Council of Ministers in full or in the back, whether the presidents of the Serbian people were at those sessions, whether they speak in Banja Luka and, in other words, come to Sarajevo and tell us who approved this and such an illegally proposed budget. Also, if you are already proposing a agenda point, I think it is wise and so far it has been done to keep those procedures at the top of the 105th agenda, so I suggest that if you are already proposing a agenda point, you suggest it under number one, and perhaps after voting on such proposed procedures and agenda points many masks would be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15719	Thank you, Mr. Živković. One little clarification for you regarding the 48th session. I have received your proposal for a conclusion, to deliver now and the written information next to the wording that has been filed today. We therefore had the conclusion that information was to be submitted. The information has been submitted, we will consider your initiative in the impediment of the College, it may be the subject of some new session, but certainly not the subject of the last session. It was completed the way we all agreed here together and on a proposal from the College. That's it. The word is Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of the 48th session interrupted with an attempt at business intervention, so since I've been denied there, then I'm going to use that right on the agenda. You know, gentlemen, that we're the 48th session in the last session, or in the previous session, we're done with two unfinished jobs. The first job relating to Mr Joza Križanović's conclusion, which was to be written, was left at the speed of completion, and I think it should have been part of the end of the 48th session. That's why I wanted to intervene, but I was denied. So I propose under number 1 that somewhere in this agenda there is a place to continue, or 49th session, to transfer that conclusion and make it known. The details will likely be provided by Mr Jozo Križanović. And secondly, as a man, as an MP, I would not be able to accept that such important documents as the Budget, the Law on Implementation, such as the VAT reports, etc. Pushing through such a accelerated process, it's either take it or leave it, it's article 105. Especially if at least 24 hours ago someone delivered those materials to us, so let's take a look, let's see. I mean, this is a little bit off, I know that we in Tuzla have a saying when something like this is in a hurry, says a stop sick isn't a Švabo on Husinj, but those few days should actually put us in a position to bring such documents and even without the possibility of intervention to change something about it. So I suggest that these last three points are not included in the agenda. If they do, I won't normally vote for it. 8 And secondly, business interventions and attention only to Article 99(3) of the Rules of Procedure visas the establishment of joint commissions. Please, I think the meaning of Article 99(3) is being abused here and abused by the House of Peoples. And so, I'm just turning my attention and asking for a stenogram of this one to be registered because I don't accept that the authority of this House, which numbers 42 MPs, is being taken over by three MPs, whether they are quality or unquality in terms of meaning rather than technical changes, so to speak, Muhamed came to the front door or the front door of Muhamed came. One of these can agree, but agree to a meaning that interferes with something from the foundation, 3 men and yet, I don't think it's a member of Article 99. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15721	Thank you. So now, we're going to give our word, since he had an application order, Mr. Petar Kunić, claims he applied earlier. I can't track, there are two ways to log in there, through this monitor and raising your hand. We need to define ourselves in one way, so I can follow. Please, here, if it's a monitor, then it's just a monitor. Mr. Petar Kunić has his word, and I have it on the monitor, please, I have the next Mr. Jozo Križanović on the monitor, after which Aza Hadžiahmetović. You're not on the monitor. Please log in again. Here I have it with me, you can come see what it says about me, believe me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15722	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to join the predecessors if one absurdity was proposing these points of the agenda for today's debate. But everything can be suggested, Parliament suffers everything, but this speaks of the state of the spirit in this House, or I would say in the College who accepted this. So if she was, if she wasn't, I apologize. I therefore repeatedly warn that sometimes there is violence against the legal norm and in this House in general throughout the country. It's very dangerous, very dangerous. And in this way we will not create assumptions for the rule of law, for its functioning. If anyone can put a budget in a shortened procedure take it or leave it, they obviously assume OHR's mentality. If the OHR has instructed us in this sense, then really counterproductively this is all that's happened so far, in these areas. Therefore, I don't mind the suggestion itself, anything can be suggested but the state of mind of those who suggest it bothers me. That's problematic. When we start thinking that we can't push things like this. As violence is being carried out, and we had, in the previous session, some things, we weren't talking about the real causes. Of course, I didn't want to get involved, because I'd like to cause further debates that would be concrete, on my part it would be sincere, but it would cause, of course, further debates. And that's why I didn't want to answer. Thank you very much. So, against me absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15723	I thank Mr. Petar Kunić. 9 The word has a Mr. Momčilo Novaković, let Mr. Beriz Belkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15724	...chairing, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, the position of the Serbian Democratic Party Club is that it will not vote to supplement the agenda beyond what we have here. In addition to the above-mentioned shortcomings of the proposal that the budget goes according to Article 105, I have indeed failed in these papers to allow that I did not have a good look because I did not have time, to find out who agreed with such a way of dividing the excise tax on sales, customs, etc. So, is there any agreement between governments or is this a proposal from the Council of Ministers in which these governments did not take part? So it's just an additional argument to all these arguments that I've heard here and that's why the club won't vote to supplement the agenda with this point. Of course, I'm fully aware that we can't change anything in the padded agenda, but I have to say that I've read one point several times. In fact, such a 3rd sub-c) that we should ratify an agreement on the acceptance of a person at the state border between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary. It's not like the parliament of the Republic of BiH left it to us to ratify after all these years of sitting here in Sarajevo. If so, I am not prepared to ratify any agreement between the Government of the Republic of BiH and any government, any other country, so of course I know I cannot take this off the agenda because it is a mandatory point but the SDS Club will not vote for ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15725	So it is two agreements from 1996, Mr Novaković, and indeed agreements between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Hungary, and I think this Parliament has an obligation
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15726	'96. There hasn't been a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15727	Yes, she was until the election of '96, so you know, the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Assembly of the Republic of BiH until the election of '96, so you know that. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15728	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15729	Please, please, so you're going to act like you're going to treat this question, but I'm only obliged to give you an explanation and this was my explanation. 10 For the word we have said that the next Mr. Beriz Belkić, and let him prepare himself, behold, the secretary of the water now has no need, I apologize to you, if I have overlooked. Let Mr. Adem Huskić be prepared, then Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15730	No problem, all right. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues have simply come forward and the following earlier practice I am trying to introduce, to warn you of the economics of this House's work. So let's discuss the agenda. We had an extended college, they had the right MPs to propose. You all have the right to set up with me on the proposal. I'm asking you to do it that way. Of course, not denying the right to comment, to give your opinion, to communicate with the public, to create a competition for the press, which you don't. I'm really asking you to go back to the topic we're talking about. There's gonna be a chance when we have a debate about any matter of what you're saying in the agenda debate. We have here, unfortunately we don't have a proposing but we have processors, maybe give us a chance to process the budget and budget law to explain the reasons why it was proposed after 105. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15731	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word. Let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15732	I thank Mr. Chairman, first of all to be really brief, I want to join all the colleagues who have spoken about how absurd it is today on the agenda to have a debate on the budget and the Budget Implementation Act. That is why even the minimum requirements are not created. Niko of us in our 40s and how many colleagues here have had a chance to see that material that we should speak of today. And I wouldn't really think about it any further, I'm surprised at the proposal to put it on the agenda today. The second thing I wanted was to clarify my colleague Moranjkić's proposal, which actually refers to the inclusion of a new agenda item, which would read the proposal of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to convene the 49th session, therefore, of this session today. I would remind you that we were in the discussion at the 48th session under point 15 when we discussed the appointment of this session today, many colleagues raised objections to the unwarranted circumstances in which Parliament was brought, sloppy and irresponsible relations between the Council of Ministers on the delivery of these very important legislative proposals, i.e. the Law on Transport Tax and the Law on Excises. And in that sense, I pointed out one conclusion in the debate, and I was asked later to formulate in writing, which I tried to do, and then the session was over. We were going to delegate this today within the course of the 48th session, however, and that session was very soon completed. And here I am, asking my colleagues to really think that the House could reflect one of its views on this institution in relation to the circumstances under which this House is today ambushed. 11 In this regard, I therefore support the proposal from my colleague Moranjkić to make the new agenda point a proposal from the House of Representatives, the conclusion of the House's 49th session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15733	Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has her word and these are so far reported debaters on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15734	I thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, and I have two interventions on the proposed agenda, including this oral item of the agenda. First of all, I would like to remind you that last time in the section, or at the usual point that is today, the parliamentary questions and answers, I have asked you why we received nine years later for ratification, two agreements? Is it something that was potentially controversial, or is it the inertness of the administration? Of course, I didn't get an answer to that. We've got those agenda points already listed here today. I'm just saying that I'm not really contesting ratification, but allow me, if you insist that these two points of the agenda be here, I'll be held back. For the simple reason I didn't get an answer. That's my... on all of it. By the way, I suggest that these two dots might possibly be prolonging for the next time. In the light of the budget, I really do belong to those who are well aware of budgetary issues and budgetary procedures. And in that sense, I propose to this House that, indeed, by respecting all the circumstances under which we adopt and discuss the budget, the Presidency adopted the budget yesterday afternoon as an authorised promoter. Personally, it requires that the budget be adopted, I appreciate that even if the Presidency could possibly and possibly the service appropriate, with the help of Parliament's services deliver last night, perhaps to all the MPs of the draft budget so that we could discuss it today. But I also appreciate the potential need, possibly, for me to speak the hymn of adopting the budget. And I would suggest that the resolution minister here explain to us first, what are the repercussions if we don't adopt the budget? Should we know what responsibilities Parliament assumes on itself? What chance do we have of pro-longing the budget adoption debate? And secondly, why are we hiding the usual budget procedure, so that we don't first discuss the report on budget implementation in the previous year, and only then are we discussing the budget for next year. I am saying this for the simple reason that I really appreciate that time and time, respectively, deadlines to adopt the budget are quite short, so I know that the budget proposed for some legal provisions that we have not yet adopted and I also appreciate that it is indeed necessary to safeguard the integrity of this Parliament. I suggest we first hear the Minister of Justice, which means no adoption or any need for the urgency of adopting the budget today. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15735	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. My way, we actually exhausted discussions of registered colleagues and colleagues. We also have a request for the proposal to address BiH Finance Minister Ljerka Marić here, in connection with this item on the agenda. Would you like to take the word Mrs. Minsitar? You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15736	I welcome you all, and for the introduction I truly understand absolutely, as the resolute minister in which we are in this situation. As for the budget for this year, it's really not used, it's not the regular procedure that's been applied all these years to make a budget, for one very important reason. And that is because of the adoption of the law in an indirect indirect taxation system. So that law is the foundation of a new fiscal system in this country. In this respect, a single account for the payment of indirect income, taxes and others at national level is hereby established. And that's one important new definition for us, and it's put a little bit of a hindrance into making this budget faster. You know, as long as we've talked about this law being passed, you know that we've done everything possible and impossible to adopt the Single Account Act. In the meantime, we have published this law, thanks to the procedure that has taken place for you, we have published a Regulation on the payment of income, the type of income... that account and in this way, we are actually providing through these two additional laws today, the sales tax of products and the Excise Tax Act, ensuring that the BiH state gets its initial incomes for the first time. What does this mean for the financing of BiH institutions now? You know, I tried to remember what deadlines and when last year's budgets were adopted. I can't say I know dates now. I know that the budget and the federal government and the state institutions of BiH were adopted quite late. You know the Ministry of Finance was created in 2000. You know there was only the Treasury Act. You know that we recently passed a law on the financing of BiH's notifications, which again is the basic law that is the lever, gives leverage to how the budget is made. When we know all of this, and when we start from the fact that this budget was created in a way that was necessary in the context of the consolidated entity budget, Brcko District, and the state, to make the distribution of future incomes, we determine very well about what the revenues from which the institutions of the state can be financed. Of course we were very late in that procedure, the entities made the calculations last year, so they planned it exactly the same way, so then they reworked that part before just teaching their governments, they said no more traspheres. We understand that the way has changed and that this part of the income belonging to BiH institutions will now be emptied directly from that account. In that division, the state received a 336 million-dollar framework. We've got a 336 million frame. The demands of our budget users according to the instructions released on time, means processed by those who requested funds, talked to all those who asked for funds, we started with 476 million. We're done so now within the goodwill of the Brcko District entity, the functioning of the state in the way it works if Bog does, it means 336 million. Ours is more certain that we will achieve this if we get the grants that are planned there, 21 million, if 13 we achieve this redistribution of funds and still related to other projects and programmes, but that original part of the funds is really empty to the state first. And the state of every eclipse paid from all over the territory gets the first part out of that brand. That's why our budget is safer this year. Last year, the budget was adopted in a way that we had a temporary decision. The temporary decision is not good. First of all, we're just saying that we can't do something in time, and the second thing we say is that we're counting on a quarter of something that we made last year and we're not going into finance in a regular way. For this year it will be quite restrictive. The 221m line budget that applied to the administration, all these years in ideal conditions when the other funds are reduced, can be distributed in a way to finance BiH institutions with a quarter of that in three months. How many institutions will remain uninvolved by funding in this case because the difference from 221, meaning up to 336 million is quite enough. So that temporary funding would really make it impossible for us to do the work of BiH institutions. That would be one between the budgets now. It wouldn't be a temporary decision, it wouldn't be a budget, there'd be something in between. You know how many new institutions we formed last year during all of our activities and passing laws, a lot of laws. The prime minister said how many laws were passed. Almost every one of them produced a new institution behind them and, of course, because we opted for this trip to Europe, so then we have veterinary offices, fitness sanitary protection, some insurance agencies, for procurement, a lot of new users. They'll all run out of aliquot if we accept the so-called. that temporary funding of, say, three months or a shorter period. A single account, meaning everything that could have been done under the Management Board or the Indirect Taxation Authority, has been done to make the single account a professional. Certain banks, therefore, have been tested this way of transferring funds and should now mean physically starting to work, technically starting to work 03.01 next year. If this is delayed, it will further cause problems of course and financing. When we arrived in 2003 in the first month here, we found ourselves, as I recall, a budget that was adopted in a way that the High Representative had published, and then we adopted him in a regular procedure and we adopted him in that form of course, the original as it was, because that's the only thing that can be done. It would be very good if we now, understanding that these are some dangers to work, the functioning of institutions within the framework of all of us here, i.e. slowing down the work and the Council of Ministers of all institutions related to those of the ordinary administrative functions of the state. Not only does it mean something special right now, but we have a real obligation to apply the Customs Policy Act. He asks every day to work, every day to work management, every day, people, of course, expect to get paid for their work. So it's very inappropriate for a budget to be passed by that procedure that's 105 pcs or left behind. I really hope that this kind of thing should really be for this country and for all these people who work here and especially for this country's Parliament, for the last time. No one can promise that. We can only work and work in that direction to do so, but really, for 105 procedures, there should be valid reasons. I believe that the valid reason is that we really won't stand for it in a way that we temporarily finance 14 institutions, we won't stand for these institutions to function. You know how much trouble we've faced. We used to say that, sometimes we didn't, from lack of space, from lack of people, from slow filling, etc. You gave us support, you supported us when we set up the system, and the system means according to all these laws that actually represent reform, other modes of work, another way of organization, another way of observing our country inside and out. And I really think it would be very good, if there was even a possibility in the procedure and in all of what I said, that this was taken very seriously, that you would be given some time to study it and for some of the particularly problematic things that exist, or always for the creation of new institutions for inadequate policing, any user, is left that reserve. The reserve isn't anyone's whim, nor is it whose intention to do something on its own right now, determines, redistributes, but it means it's really necessary. Because as much as I wrote to all the budget users, you need to send us your demands by 10.10, we got them the day before yesterday. There are still institutions that have now seen that I do not know the means for this, for that, for deportation, for asylum, for a lot of things. So, it's always life, this budget of ours allows on the financial side, from the financial aspect of this country's life. And it would really be very good, and it would be very necessary for us not to talk too much today, not to mention the international indiscretions in this country, not to mention the AMF, because this time, the AMF has really played the role of the real technical assistance that has been offered to us to find ourselves in the new way of allocating future incomes. It's a very complicated system. The system must be upgraded. It will be upgraded through the Law on Direct Taxes that will improve the system. So if you adopt these other two laws today, and the tax on transport and excise duty, along with all of these said ones, and if you finally decide to adopt the budget, you're going to allow us to start on 03.01. in a way that the state starts to get here the financial line, that it has its original incomes. In my opinion, it would really be one of the most important reasons why I would convince you of this situation if you were to discuss the budget in this way at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15737	I thank the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Marić. We've closed the debate. Mrs. Fatima Leho, I thought we had concluded the debate, please welcome Mrs. Leho and Sead Plavrić. No one here gives in, no matter who asks for a word to the end goes well, we have time, no problem at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15738	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I have a question for Minister Marić. Does this mean, since we have completed the Single Account Act, all revenues will be poured into one account at the Central Bank or the business banks you have chosen from January 3rd? No payment towards BiH institutions and entities will be possible for those who have not adopted the budget. It means that their accounts will stand and that they will be completely financial frozen,...flows towards institutions that have not adopted the budget. Does that mean that? I agree completely with ma'am. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15739	I'm afraid that's really it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15740	It's our reality. So this is our reform break-in moment. If we have passed the Single Account Act and if all proceeds go to that account on January 3rd, and if we pass the Tax on Transport of Goods and Services Act, in one year that bridges the entry into this next year, to the VAT Act, if we also adopt the Excise Act today, then we have solved the revenue side of all budgetary users in BiH. We're not expendable for the part that hasn't adopted the budget. Therefore, I think that today, we should not look at the procedure, but rather adopt the act. And that is why I also urge my colleagues from the RS to bear in mind that we should not be the ones who are this one, the brake that the financial flows towards entities will not work unless we adopt this budget, because it is part of the income, all income goes to the single account of counterpart Novaković. And we won't be able to transfer the funds to the entities if it hasn't gone through our house, you know. If we need to take a break and take that one, we consult because these are professional financial matters. I believe that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15741	Please, don't have a dialogue between you, turn to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15742	I apologize for turning around. So it is possible that even at the last minute it was realized that without both, the single account project was not being rounded up. You can't apply a single account if it only works on one side and the other side doesn't work because we don't have verified documents. And closing it with decisions, now on temporary funding, means making one mess in the system, and we have a chance. As for our budget, I'm glad Minister Marić said the IMF gave technical assistance this time. After all, foreign debt is known and there is no change. We know how much we're in charge and how much the tranche is for 2005. And in this, from 220 she said we're going to 336, which means almost a third is an increased budget for BiH institutions, and that's something, that's one parameter that's quite enough for me to say today to make a single account for us, which is synquanton in the financial reform that we're going to be in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15743	I thank Mrs. Leho. I didn't accidentally suggest these agenda points. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15744	The truth is, some things I think deserve clarification and that what the minister has noded her head isn't everything. The Single Account Act will work. In the current budget law, we have a provision under which if we do not adopt the budget in a timely manner, then the Council of Ministers makes a decision on temporary financing. Even in a new law proposed today to go into the agenda, such a provision is proposed and the possibility for the Council of Ministers to adopt a decision on temporary financing. And as far as I understand it, it will be impossible to function only newly formed notations that in the last year, in the first quarter, were not foreseen on the spending side. So that's what I told the truth for, not prejudicing any solution. On behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, before moving to the vote on the proposed additional points, please break from 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15745	Thank you. Since no one's answering anymore, listen to what's important to you and what's important to me. So we have a gentleman, if that's how Ivo Miro Jović, with me reported here, is you, Mr. Jović, applying, here's the problem. Here's what it says here, so I can tell you what it says. I'll take care of it, you raise your hands and I'll take care of it and the secretary, it's a minor mistake. Mr. Zivkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15746	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I hope we've resolved that. After this much information we have received in order for the agenda point to be put into the budget this year, I think the key question is whether any conversation or excuse can take away the right of the BiH Parliament to discuss the budget at all. Here's the key question. Is someone going to take it away from us for any reason or not? I don't think anyone but ourselves can take away the right to even think about it. Don't be angry with Mrs. Leho, but if we accept this budget tomorrow you'll say, you know, there's no budget for the $20 million we need for the census, so we can't do that, you know. Let's talk about it. How can someone in this House take away your right to talk about any items in this budget? I think that's the key question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15747	Thank you. Since no one's answered their word again, I'm closing the debate and there's no more discussion on the agenda. In 15 minutes, please be in the O.R., I'm taking a break at the request of the president of the SDA Club, 15 minutes and in 15 minutes we vote on the agenda, please. Thank you. 17 We continue to work, the word has an MP, president of the SDA Club Mrs. Seada Palavrić. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15748	Thank you. I want us to vote on the Budget Proposal and the Law on budget implementation in their agenda, not until Minister Marić arrives, so that we can vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15749	And where is Minister Mrić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15750	It's coming.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15751	If he's coming, we can wait a minute, two, it's never been a problem. You can, of course, Mr. Špirić Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15752	I really don't mind having the full Council of Ministers and Ministers here, but for the voting technique for our statement, there's not much of her presence, because the minister has said the reasons she thinks we should vote in this procedure. Let's not waste any time. So, with the full respect of the minister sitting here or being where he wants to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15753	Thank you. I'd still like Mr. Špirić to wait a minute, two, that's no problem at all. I know that tones affect voting technology. Me, here we go, please nice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded a debate on the agenda and we have four new proposals today and I will reverse the vote on proposals not to wait on the one hand and on the other hand to see if BiH Finance Minister Ljerka Marić will join us. Although her presence in the vote is not necessarily necessary, I agree with Mr Špirić. We therefore have four additional proposals compared to the agenda, so first we will go in this order, the proposal by Mrs Seada Palavrić, to include today the Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Value Added Tax Act. There is no such report, but I am putting the motion to a vote, since it is a proposal from the MPs. You all know the situation. I invite you, please, Mr. Špirić's business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15754	With a lot of good will to understand some things, if the commission doesn't have a report, so there's no report, there's no sitting, if the MPs haven't got it, so I can ask 18 now, I want you to plead on the goat breeding process. So please, there's no report, don't make one of us, now it's somebody else's to get a report that doesn't exist and someone's against it. Well, come on, I can't really understand with the best of my will, don't, I pray you don't make a circus out of Parliament. What Dr. Lagumdžija was talking about, we're not going to the sunflower. Let's put a agenda point where we all know there's no report, so somebody's going to say, we're asking to put what's missing. I can't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15755	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I would only ask that the vocabulary for this pay phone be an appropriate place to speak. This is the BiH State Parliament and I expect us to compare our behaviour all against that fact. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Palavrić was quite clear. I will now as predicating repeat what she said in her discussion. She suggested a agenda point, though she herself is aware that the commission's reports are missing. Expecting that today, since both homes are here and both committees of alignment in this building, once this item of the agenda is possibly placed, and the commission if they finish their work, then that's the point of the agenda. So all of these are the conditions that Mrs. Palavrić said here and, of course, we'll all have in mind everything she said when we pleaded. I invite you to prepare for a plea on this proposal. Prepare to vote. Galsai now. I find, with 16 votes to 17 votes against, this proposal has not been received in general, please, you have an objection to the vote. Your voice isn't, please. Please stand up, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15756	I don't have a sound meter, but I voted there and it's registered as if I didn't. Please repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15757	Thank you. Please, we have a request from the MP that the technique has not registered the vote. So far, we have always respected such demands, so far we have always respected, I declare the invaluable vote we had just before. We are crossing the line, setting up a re-election, and I urge you to prepare for a vote on the same proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please, 18 votes for, please sit down for your seats, ministers, Mr. Raguž, 18 votes to, 17 votes against, we do not have a majority from the RS entity. I'm asking the College if he's okay with it. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15758	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15759	And since it's the agenda, we should plead today. Are you in favour of pleading today?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15760	It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15761	It's business, since it's the agenda, we should now, if you don't agree, I'm going to the second round. The agenda is this. Please, the College didn't get the consent you saw, but we decided to go to the second round. Let the MPs who are against this proposal be prepared to vote against them. You who are against it, prepare to vote. Vote now. It's against RS 11, 10 is enough not to adopt the proposal. So this is more than two-thirds, and I realize that the proposal didn't get the required majority. We're moving on to the next proposal. The following proposal was made by respected colleagues and colleagues, related to Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal. Here or when it comes to the proposal, things are like this. At the last session, therefore, we had indeed a proposal from Mr Joza Križanović that Parliament adopt one working conclusion with the agenda point that we ended on that occasion. At the insistence of Mr. Križanović, however, that we are reading the vote on his proposal, the proposal of his conclusion, I, of course, asked for it to come to me here in writing, and it did not come to me here at a desk in writing during the last session. I'm not even ready for this moment, so I don't have it in writing right now. I'm ready, of course, because I didn't put it on the agenda for last session, because I don't have it in front of a person here all the time. If Mr. Križanović has it, let me read it and put it to a vote then. You want to bring this from Mr. Križanović. And Mr. Potočnik, I don't know who's pathetic, just explain that we know if it is. Mr. Jozo Križanović suggests that today's session, or that the House adopts a conclusion, this is not the agenda, is it? This is the conclusion that the House adopts a conclusion on the agenda. I quote – on the call for the 49th session, caused by the need for the adoption of the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act in BiH, by the end of this year the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives expressed dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers' relationship with this House due to an unwarranted delay in referring to these draft laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In this act, the council of ministers has shown that it is not managing reforms in BiH, but is doing so by OHR and the High Dedicator. The House of Representatives, warns the Council of Ministers that in the future they will not tolerate such a relationship and asks the Council of Ministers for appropriate behaviour so that, more responsibly, I apologize, more responsibly, instead of more responsible behaviour, so as not to bring this House into breach of its own Rules of Procedure and bring important laws in the atmosphere of pressure and without the possibility of improving the proposed laws. You heard the suggestion of a conclusion. Prepare to vote. And vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15762	So I have to say by mistake, it's not, it's not gonna challenge the result. I thought I was voting yes, not against so I have to say and it doesn't affect the result.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15763	Thank you. I find the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the agenda, with 24 votes in favour, 13 votes against and with a sufficient entity majority adopted a conclusion proposed by Mr Jozo Križanović. We are moving to a statement on the budget and budget law. I have information that Minister Marić is looking for a word again. I am obliged to give the Minister of Finance my word. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15764	Well, as you know, the Council of Ministers has asked Parliament to adopt budgets for this procedure 105. After this debate, after this climate that exists here, I have consulted the members of the Council of Ministers and the Rules of Procedure himself, and we think it would be good for the College to declare whether he could accept that the procedure goes according to Article 106? It's like 15 days, some kind of deadline-cutting thing. If that's acceptable, but 104 is the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15765	I thank Mrs. Marić. Mr. Nikola Špirić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15766	Ladies, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we're looking for a way out. We received a letter by the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau proposes a budget to Palmannet. Don't do this, Minister. The Council of Ministers can't go out with a proposal of any kind. Because we're doing this, why we're taking breaks and making traps for each other. The Bureau, you have a document, this is proposed by the Bureau, requested by a member of 105th, has not even come to say, please do so. Please don't make me apologize to the minister, I'm sorry. I'm sorry he abuses the minister. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15767	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž is looking for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15768	Ladies and gentlemen, I really respect Mr Špirić and his energy and principles and advocacy for respecting the Rules of Procedure. But I welcome the reaction of the competent promoters and when they hear the debate in this House. Then why are we arguing? Well, you've advocated Mr. Špirić to open up the possibility for the MPs to say something about the basic act. And when it does, you're against it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15769	Okay. This is now the answer to the replica. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15770	No, no, please, I just want us to be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15771	You don't need to, to tell you things are completely under control, don't worry, there's a way out of the situation, there's a Rules of Procedure, don't be, there's Nikola Špirić you have a word for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15772	I don't think the extra was Secretary Marić's story. I don't think it was extra, I don't think it was an extra debate of any MPs, but we have to do business as Parliament. So nothing, I absolutely respect, I listened to every MP. It doesn't matter what Nikola Špirić thinks at this point, so let's just Martine it out. I respect this suggestion, too. So we heard everything, let's do business, there's nothing else we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15773	Thank you. Mrs. Palavrić, replica, Mr. Duraković's replica should be prepared. Mr. Duraković, Mrs. Palavrić before and then you, I said. She has a replica and you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15774	My replica is on the presentation of Mr Špirić, who, by all means, wants this budget proposal per article 105 to fail and then go into regular procedure. I understood Minister Marić that she is in fact seeking a procedure according to Chan 104, using all the possibilities of Article 106 to shorten the deadlines, just as we have shortened 22 of the Tax on Transport of Goods and Services and the Excise Act. And in a letter and the conclusion of the chairmanship of the presidency, the chairman of the presidency authorised Mrs Ljerka Marić to represent him at this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15775	Thank you. Mr. Nijaz Duraković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15776	I'm like all you guys got these papers in the break of this session is you. At first reading, like that, I'm no expert on budget or budget, I have at least 50 objections. Items some are simply insane, illogical, etc. Really not to put this Parliament in such a position, that such a major event for every Parliament in the world, so it should also be for this one, is the adoption of a budget or budget. That... that's what governments fall on, that's what Parliaments stay on or don't stay on, etc. It's the most important thing that can happen. I don't need to lecture here right now on parliamentary life and procedure. So, so that we don't really discredit ourselves until the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, I have a constructive proposal. It won't ruin the world that we say, the first next session in January, it could be Orthodox Christmas, let's say I don't know the 5th, the 6th, etc. to be the only item of the agenda, because this is the most important issue this Parliament decides in one year. And by that, the wolf is full and the sheep is numbered. I respect the reasons that Minister Marić submitted. All of this is clear to us, that there have been new system laws, pre-tumbations, with the inability to submit a valid report, but I also respect my colleague Azra's remarks, which she says never, I have participated for at least 30 years in these things, never adopted the new budget without having submitted a report on the realization of the previous, etc. So, I think my proposal, so I ask the College to consider the proposal. I think it's reasonable and let's move on to this agenda that we suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15777	Thank you, Mr. Duraković, for this constructive discussion. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I said earlier that the matter is a business matter, I mean, we're not entirely outside of the Rules of Procedure, so don't worry. I would ask MPs to pay attention. We have therefore received a proposal from the BiH Presidency to discuss these two documents, both the Budget and the Budget Implementation Act, as referred to in Article 105. That possibility exists because the Rules of Procedure of our House, the special procedure, is devoted to the budget. Please, Minister, please follow me now. The Rules of Procedure of our House in Article 106 determines a special budget procedure and says that the provisions governing the basic legislative procedure will apply when budgeting. The basic legislative procedure is also a regular procedure and a shortened procedure and an emergency procedure, and it is possible therefore to be 105, 23 may be 104, it may also be the regular procedure. The Bureau decided to propose a procedure under Article 105. At the same time, it's authorized, you see from the memo, please, Minister, Mrs. Marić, follow what I'm saying, now I'm going to ask you, please, a little attention. At the same time, it was decided that the powers of the finance minister, Mrs. Marić, that when the procedure is at stake here in front of the House is definitely being apparent and that's what the minister told us. That's what the document says. So this House can only consider this Budget in the legislative procedure of regular, shortened, so 104 and it's urgent and we call it shortened and 105 as suggested. The specificity of the member in 106 is seen as having to be taken into account by the College of the House and, if necessary, having to react in a given situation in order to ensure that the budget for the following year is adopted as stated in the Rules of Procedure, no later than 15 November each year. That time has passed. We're in the next situation today. We have an official proposal to vote on the procedure under Article 105. Ms. Marić said a little time at the speaker's table that she proposed a procedure under Article 106, 106, is a general procedure that also implies a procedure under Article 104 and a procedure by Article 105 and that regular procedure that implies, you know what it means. If, then, I Minister Marić, as far as I understand, has practically given up the procedure under Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15778	I did give up on procedure 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15779	Great. Ms. Marić, on behalf of the BiH Presidency, has given up power, and here I am now entering it for a stenogram, because its statement has not been entered into the stenogram, gave up the procedure under Article 105. I'm going to have a brief consult with my kolegij and we're going to suggest a proposal. What do you have a replica on? What consultations? Here's your line.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15780	Please don't act like that. You're the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15781	Well, of course that's why I'm reacting like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15782	..take care of us MPs. First, it's not exactly what you say. If you say, basic procedure, then it's a regular procedure. No shorts or any other modified. And the legal department that proposed to the presidency, I don't think she knows what the basic procedure is. If something is basic, it's regular, so it's a regular procedure and there's no dilemma. That's what I was gonna say. I don't think it's hard. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15783	Please, Martina, do you agree with this?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15784	I agree to shorten the procedure and take responsibility for the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15785	I think this is on Mr. Duraković's trail and proposal. So please, what I'm going to say is, after we've been here, we have no reason to give up the procedure under Rule 105 so we don't go into any debates about the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kunić, as far as I've been able to see, I think I have no reason to say, and when I make a mistake, as far as I've been able to see now in a hurry, by listing these provisions with the secretary, so you're right. So I'm willing to make it public if, I mean, there's no dilemma here when something like that happens, you know. In this situation, the House College will manage these discussions, determine the procedure for and that is our proposal to this House, determine the procedure under which the budget will be discussed and will maximumly shorten the deadlines and I am informing you of this. And that's Article 106. I don't think there's any need to vote on this and the intervention, like what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15786	...member 106 in both positions is conditioned on October 15th and then don't make anything that isn't right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15787	November 15th, November
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15788	It says here in October, I read the Cyrillic and Latin well.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15789	November 106nd item 2
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15790	It says here 15, before October 15th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15791	What member?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15792	Here, article 106, I don't know who wrote to me and who wrote to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15793	I'm talking about the obligation of the College, please, Moranjkić 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15794	And even so, he was conditioned again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15795	Mr. Moranjkić, take your place. Thank you for your discussion. Mr. Potočnik, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15796	I would only ask one thing, in the future of this budget plan to be the number of employees, to see why such costs are. You understand, then, that we can adequately discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15797	Please, just give Mr. Moranjkić an explanation. Mr. Moranjkić, when I spoke about November 15th, I was talking about how the budget of this House should be adopted at the latest by then and forwarded to the House of Peoples, as it says here in the Rules of Procedure. We're not into it, so of course not, I'm saying what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Please, after the promoter has given up the procedure under article 105, a little follow-up by just the two of you, according to article 105, so after the motioner has given up the procedure under Article 105, I am informing the House that the College of the House of Representatives will be managed by the provisions of Article 106. Rules of Procedure, to establish a procedure for the adoption of this budget, that it will shorten the deadlines as far as possible so that we have at the first next session that I will personally advocate, but that is the decision of the College, to be held until Orthodox Christmas, so that until then, I will stand up for it, but it is the decision of the College, so that we have it at the first next session of the House of Representatives. In this way, there is no need to plead on these points of the agenda, here is the College's decision, and I find that we have finally established the agenda of today's session, and it reads, 1. Proposal for a Tax Act on the Transport of Products and Services, first and second reading, 2. Proposal for an Excise Act of BiH, first and second reading, 3. The agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property tax, (b) the Treaty between BiH, Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property, (c) the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, on the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime, (e) the Agreement on the transfer and acceptance of persons on the state border, between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, (e) the Convention on the transfer of convicted persons, (f) the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of the Framework Programme for Financial Co-operation, 26 g) the Agreement on Credit and Guarantee between the Government of BiH as a Guarantee, the Government of the Federation of BiH as a Sub-Garant and the Government of the Republic of the Netherlands and the Government of the Government of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as an Importing Bank, 4. Appointment of three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Export of Weapons and Military Equipment, 5. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Tax on Transport of Products and Excise Services of BiH. This is the agenda for today's session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move to the first item of the agenda that is Ad.1. The proposal for a tax on the sales of products and services is provided for in both the first and second readings, according to the procedures laid down for the work of this House. Proposal for a tax on the marketing of products and services, so first and second reading. I'm just going to remind you briefly of the conclusion that we adopted at the 48th session, on which we set deadlines for considering this as well as the law of the next agenda. In line with this conclusion, our Finance and Budget Commission is on December 28th. Yesterday, she held a session and delivered a report on these laws. You've won this bill, and there will be one more law, as you know. You have received a report from the Commission on finance and budget. The Commission adopted 14 amendments, in the plenary phase, so far we have no amendments to this proposal, or several amendments have already arrived from Mr Novaković, Mr Ćeman and Mr Hazim Felić. I'm opening the debate. I'm asking the finance minister if he needs to talk about this law. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? The word has Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15798	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs, I will, since the first and second reading is scheduled to say briefly what he said in part of the procedure called first reading and what is next, about the importance of these laws, especially at this time it is unnecessary to speak and I have at all times the importance of these laws that are important to this country and to these citizens. But I can't seem to say a few things in principle. First, it is obvious that this law is in an extraordinary haste that I do not know why such a haste has been done and directed into the procedure because how else do you justify a light of uncertainty, a glow of indetermination, and a poor solution in certain members? With that in mind, I caution myself on Articles 10, 16, 20, 21, 28, 38 and 40, on which I have invested amendments and normally, I am using my own business 27 right to remain in those amendments which, when the time comes for amendments, I will try to present. But at the same time, I have to see that there are also members of the 8th, 23rd, 50th, who I haven't turned my attention to to the amendments, which makes it very unclear, it may be a difficult word for the law but it is even bigger when it is known that the whole chapter 10 that appears only in the context of which it refers to the members of 40th and 50th who have absolutely nothing to do with that chapter that sees what was to be solved. ...smoking taxation, however, that in law means the whole chapter out. In order not to comment further, since I will remain in the first part only on principle, I remain with the amendments and when they come to order, I will also talk about them because my goal is fair and well-meaning, so that tomorrow this law is not inapplicable and has no epithet, bad law, as we have already passed several laws, and we are constantly spinning two words at a time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15799	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, Mr. Beriz Belkić, prepare yourself, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15800	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I supported this d so I say the accelerated procedure under which this law goes and I must say that I am extremely pleased that one of these laws is passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I have given some of my opinions in consultation, of course, with certain groups and businessmen and others with whom I consult on similar topics as an MP, in my amendments, which are partly when it comes to this law, accepted and, of course, I would not explain it now. However, although this seems exclusively a procedural issue, it is a pity that you did not have more time as MPs and what this Parliament has been brought into tea that here is now about such an important law which is basically a confilitation of some of the solutions that they had (?) at the entity level and the Brcko District of BiH, therefore, made as a practical solution but I know from experience that such procedures are necessarily caused by some solutions which, regardless of what we adopt this ourselves, we will say fix, challenge simply the legal consequences of the subjects, citizens, etc. But either way, to support it is this. I just called to say that I think here I don't know if there's going to be any interference, if there's going to be a problem with getting to this law today, I'm ready if other colleagues accept it, in a way to make compromise solutions about unrenewed amendments, if not, then let the procedure be implemented as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Although it seems true, it is a real shame because there have been good thoughts in a series of amendments, if nothing should have systematically and thoroughly clarified them. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15801	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Beriz Belkić, who is next to see Mr. Lagumdžija, prepare himself. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15802	We may have missed out on the report a little bit more on the President of the Finance and Budget Commission, but here's the one, I'll send something on the subject to say. Here, Mr. Moranjkić is completely in the pave including this one, so to speak, inadmissible sloppyness about the explanation, the absence of Chapter 10 etc. but I want to report to the House of Representatives that the Commission for Finance and Budget and its members have put forth a lot of effort, working ten hours, making amendments, trying to correct these indeterminateities, and sleekness, of course the promoters don't listen to me, Madam Minister, I haven't gotten the impression, and so we've been trying to correct what has been corrected and I hope that something on that plan has worked out. But we have concluded and requested that the Council of Ministers call for responsibility is for us the address of the Council of Ministers, they are promoters, we do not need a story she did the Administration did not work on indirect taxation management, to conduct one I will not tell the investigation but to analyse who is doing these drafts of the law, name and last name. And that these people don't do it anymore. They're just not capable. They're incompetent, they make such failures that it's out of their minds. So, we have made certain corrections and as far as the Party for BiH Club is concerned, we will support the solution precisely because of the invigoration of the single account and the start of the original financing of the BiH state at last. Of course, we have suggestions to the Council of Ministers, the Resor Ministry to pay special attention to sublaws and instructions, and when it comes to definitions of non-alcoholic beverages, raw coffee, fried coffee, etc. the measuring instruments, and a number of other things, are very important to the sublegal acts, so, with the recommendation and request of the Proposer to do quality of these sublegal acts, which will depend on the application of this document, we will support it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15803	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please. Let Mrs Ljiljana Milićević prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15804	Ljilo, do you want to be president of the committee before? Here I have offered the president of the commission, if he wishes sooner, but thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I mean, this Transport Tax Act, we took it as a law that fits existing entity laws, and that's why we didn't pay that much attention to it, and that's why it's good to move to another law as soon as possible, the Excise Act that has fundamental changes in relation to what is now, and especially amendments that are ahead of us and some that have been adopted, have already led to fundamental changes in relation to the current situation. And that's why I'll be relatively brief, but I'm joining my colleague Belkić and my colleague Moranjkić that, indeed, with today's legislation, we are really going to make the strongest criticism of the Council of Ministers and the one who proposed this law, because we were put into a position that 12.10, practically two months ago, the full two months ago was the law between the Council of Ministers and Parliament and we haven't established, no one gave us an answer, why it took two months for this law to be, as well as the other one somewhere between the offices in this building. And that's why we've been brought into the position we've been brought to. 29 Daskle, it's something that someone would really have to bear responsibility for this and I'd like to have Mr. President here, make one working conclusion to examine what this has been about. If things like this didn't happen to us tomorrow, because today we're in a position to have this, in a completely abnormal atmosphere, in a jam, roughly apologize for the expression, adopt these laws. As much as the law is, as anyone here would say, a flamboyant, a lot of things can be an example to you. A fellow moranjkic talked about the explanation, we even had to intervene yesterday and change the amendment of one member who says that I apologize for reading this, which says, if the taxpayer is purchasing products for reproduction, he is obliged to keep the traffic data of the Chun, it says in this law. You heard me well. So that's what this law says. And they say it's a printing mistake. Judging from how it was done, like it wasn't. I really think that this should get us a little serious and imagine that we didn't, God Bog, adopt this by 105, we'd find ourselves in a heavy commitment to how to do this on a mass scale. So, I'm Beriz saying that the sighing presidents of the commission had to intervene to make these things change. So this is the kind of thing the commission had to change. And you can imagine what it's like to have a debate about the essence. As a matter of fact, I would like to thank those who accepted the amendment in the commission, which, at least this year, abolishs the sales tax for computers and computer equipment, which is a major shift compared to what we have so far. And that is why I draw attention to the amendment that is before us again by one member of the committee, a member of Parliament, who again wants to put it back. So I urge you not to adopt the amendment proposed by colleague Felić, Amendment I and II which would return to what we managed to agree yesterday, so much on the commission, and yet that would make a fine positive shift in the relationship to the information society that I see, there are 100,000 marks in the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15805	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Mrs Ljiljana Milićević has her word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15806	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I only wanted to meet you in front of the board, in fact, that we are consistent with the conclusion, and since we were declared the committee responsible, we sat for several hours yesterday in the best interest. We had dozens of amendments ahead of us and unanimously we accepted this, the principles of the law, eight of our colleagues submitted amendments. We passed a 14-amendment bill, also unanimously, with particular attention being given to the fact that yesterday in the presence of the Proposer, the commission pointed to most of these failures that you have repeated here today, especially the arguments at the end of the law that do not apply at all, meaning they treat some non-existent members of this law, something that does not read in it. And we suggested that they correct it in some way, i.e. to get to know Parliament here today so that we wouldn't waste time on that, that it was a mistake. So much for this report. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15807	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate in my first reading. Prepare to plead. We vote in our first reading on the Proposal for a Tax Law on the Transport of Products and Services. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 36 votes for, 1 abstention, no votes against, and with a sufficient entity majority in the first reading adopted the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act. We agreed to go to another reading today. I've got a Rules of Procedure to do, so I'm gonna ask you, and you're gonna vote and you're not supposed to, thank you very much. So we've already decided to go to another reading. I'm opening a debate in another reading. We're talking about amendments. Just to inform you, in a second reading of this law, we have amendments to Mr. Momčilo Novaković, and two amendments, and then we have amendments to Mr. Mirsad Ćeman and four amendments to Mr. Hazim Felić, two amendments. What order are we going to take? The way you put it, like this. Okay. So these are the amendments, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15808	Gentlemen Chairman, I must say that here we are making this precedent, so we are discussing this same day both in the first and second readings, and we have so many amendments, I guess we are ready so very seriously where possible, to work on the adoption of certain laws. So, where possible and I'm really saying this because very often we're in a position where we're accusing ourselves of being unprepared to solve some issues in a faster way or I don't know how to call it a different way. As far as my amendments are concerned, so of course I consider the amendments justified, otherwise I wouldn't propose them, especially Amendment I, because I don't think that we can adopt laws here, put aside the law passed at second level or at entity level, and that we are practically in conflict here with this member, but given the acceptance, that today we are discussing these amendments in second reading, means by accepting that we are discussing in another reading, we have practically accepted in some way the obligation to adopt these laws today. The SDS Club will also vote for this law and for the next law without any new amendments. So, we're prepared to vote for this law with amendments adopted by the Commission, although I think it is, we really think that the amendment relating to computers, the computer equipment doesn't make any sense, and that obviously someone well-mannered 31, I think it's about traders... in moments of this equipment that our MPs proposed, but I repeat that to adopt this law we need to give up, so our opinion is that we give up the adoption of any new amendments. From the above, I withdraw both amendments to contribute therefore to the required law and call on colleagues to withdraw the amendments and that this debate, which may follow, will ultimately not have any more... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15809	I thank Mr. Novaković. You'll get your word right away. She has a replica of Mrs. Majkić Dušanka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15810	I'm very sorry about the statement I just heard about what would seem to be the best time for this society to start thinking differently, and that means that it's thinking about how we're going to live tomorrow, actually today. I would like to remind this high house that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with the UN Development Programme, adopted several important documents. One of these documents is called the development policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina's information society, followed by a development strategy and an action plan. In addition, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator of the Information Society Development Agenda, which represents a global action plan for the harmonisation of information in this country. Accordingly, and understanding the specific responsibility of this House my request, namely my amendment, went in such a way that both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers must show willingness and show the desire to create a more appropriate environment for faster development and the building of an information society, and in that sense this explanation that I am now giving to the Commission. Nothing beyond that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15811	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. It is therefore an amendment adopted on the Commission and which is an integral part of the text of the Law. So it's not about the amendment that's now in this plenary phase. Mr. Novaković's reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15812	I didn't mean to open those questions, but if I did, I'd ask myself what was under this article 10%. Believe it's much more important here to be freed from the computer. I wonder if we're going to study at all if we said school help was 10%. Then we won't go to school. According to this analogy are we going to wash if the soap goes 10%, whether we drink mineral water etc. or natural waters. I don't think we should go to that analogy, I said it was bad what we did, but we won't support that, 32 or any, but we'll adopt, we'll only vote for the law that passed the commission. So in this, regardless of our position on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15813	Thank you. The word is Mr. Hazim Felić. Here you go. Attention, attention, attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15814	Thank you, Chairman, to say briefly that yesterday during the work of the Finance and Budget Commission, with the explanation of the proposing representatives, Ms. Marić, we heard that this law is about the completion of three laws, two entity and the Law of Transport of the Brcko District, that they are being even and that this law is being proposed and here it is today at the Parliamentary Assembly and that this law is simply being passed from the state level. In previous legal solutions, computers and accounting equipment that are now in Article 13 of the Law, the 12th Law was burdened with 10% tax. Explanations on the Commission which were, which spoke about enabling accelerated information development in public institutions, schools, universities, universities, etc. It's really justifiable. However, the reason for my submission of the amendment to the Commission's report above all is because I support the direction that Mrs Marić also told the Commission that it is sublimation of three laws to one law at the state level. And another thing, as we know so far, and also with this legal solution computers and accounting equipment for public institutions such as schools, colleges are freed today, not just citizens. I therefore believe that this law, which has so far been in office in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it has been paid only for individuals other than public institutions, schools and colleges, should remain and that is why I have submitted amendments to the Commission's report, believing that these solutions should remain until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15815	I thank Mr. Felić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I told you to answer by raising your hands. That's what we agreed. Otherwise you appear on every agenda point, and I'd be really surprised if I did, you're right about this part of the agenda, and you weren't talking. Here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15816	First I'm sir, thank you for your word first, and second I announced myself in the first part of the speech and I said I wasn't happy. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15817	But Mr. Moranjkić, there's no need for us to take our word for it a few times on the same agenda. Take care of each other, so this is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15818	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15819	I can sit here by tomorrow morning, Mr. Moranjkić. Don't, while I, please wait until I'm done. I can sit here until morning, but I'm asking you to keep an eye on that we don't have to take the word for each item of the agenda every time. If you want, you have the right to do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15820	I think, Mr. Chairman, you're wrong. You should've intervened when I said that we agreed to do the first and second reading, I said, I'll read it loud and clear, he listened to the concise complete of these halls and guests and official faces.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15821	Come on, you're making a point. What do you have to say, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15822	You'll take another word from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15823	I won't take your word for it, but if you keep going, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15824	This is incorrect. I really don't understand you, and I don't understand the procedure in this room as it relates to certain MPs who need to say it on purpose. If this is the work of this House, I call on you to write two words that this House does not allow MPs to speak their opinion and I say it is extremely correct, extremely well-meaning and fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15825	Take a stenogram and look how long he's been talking. Here, I was just trying. Here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15826	Then we must say, and you will apply it here as much as anyone has the right to speak. I was talking about the first part and I want to say a few words about the second part.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15828	That's what I announced. And don't, this is incorrectly extreme and I'm really going to react in a different way with all due respect, but this is really extremely incorrect.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15829	And on our side it's incorrect, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15830	and according to my age, and according to the status of the Messengers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15831	You want to talk more?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15832	I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15834	This is truly torture and I have submitted the amendments I have made in this House quite well-intentioned because I have seen certain gaps and language and other structures, I have not deeply penetrated the content, but I am not allowed to speak in this House. I call for another means of public information, OHR, etc. to torture certain MPs in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15835	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15836	I have invested, or restored, four amendments. You could see the explanation. I think it makes sense what I suggested and suggested, but, given the truth, although I hate to do it, given the fact that this law really needs to be passed, even with some less good solutions, not to say bad, here I am withdrawing my terms as a contribution to getting to the law. Thank you very much. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15837	I thank Mr. Ćeman for giving up these amendments. So we have two more amendments to Mr. Felić. Would anyone like some more, just a little bit please, Mr Špirić, would any MPs like to participate further in the debate on this second reading under this law? Who wants to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. We have two amendments to Mr. Felić. Mr. Felić, are you staying or withdrawing the amendments? You're staying with the amendment. Okay. I call on the MPs, we move on to a statement on the amendment and Mr. Hazim Felić. I urge you to prepare and vote on the amendment and Mr. Felić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 11 votes in favour, 21 votes against no parliamentary majority for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. We move to an amendment II statement. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. We're voting on amendment II to Mr. Hazim Felić. Prepare to vote and vote now. I find that with 11 votes in favour, 22 votes against, so without a parliamentary majority, this amendment has not been adopted. We're moving on to a statement on the law, that's how you got it from our commission. Prepare to plead. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted by a majority of 37 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour, with a sufficient entity majority, passed the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act. Thank you very much. We move to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. A proposal for a law on excise duties for Bosnia and Herzegovina, first and second reading of the Honorable counterpart and colleagues, you also received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget on the draft of this law. 14 amendments were adopted by the Commission at the proposal of the Excise Law. In the plenary phase, the amendments were submitted by gentlemen: - Vinko Zorić one amendment that wants to defend again, Zlatko Lagumdžija 13 amendments that he wants to defend again, Hazim Felić two amendments to amendments 36 Commissions, Mirsad Ćeman 3 amendments he defends in the plenary phase, Momčilo Novaković also defends the amendments and Muhamed Moranjkić has submitted amendments without a call for a member, his amendments are unclear to me, according to Mr Moranjkić. It morati have to be clarified in the context of the debate, and there is a secretary if it needs to be explained, because I got this from the Professional Service which is written and what I've read to you now. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. Here you go. In the first reading, yes. Who wants to talk? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. Please nice, we have, who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15838	Here's a short one, so the same things I said about the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act also apply to the Excise Act. The Commission is also likely to say that later in the intervention, repairing anything that could be repaired. However, when it comes to principles, I have been trying to get information from the promoter which is the principles on which the Law is based, etc. It is generally said that it is the principle of complexity, i.e. the principle of including existing rules governing this area and uniting into one document, etc. I just want to point out, explaining our relationship later to some amendments, or some corrections, that this principle is not respected until the end for the simple reason that it is not so to say respectable and treated, so in that sense some laws that exist, let's say, in the Federation of the Tobacco Act, etc. which has given a specific, specific position to processors, or producers, etc., and, therefore, with this principle, the conpilation which has not been fully accepted, that position has been violated. So, what I'm saying is that we have in principle certain remarks that we will later make through the amendments when we discuss in the second reading, and otherwise we will especially be made aware of all individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15839	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević asked for a word, and let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15840	I apologize for reporting again, and now we have the Excise Act and I want to actually get to know you, so yesterday we've been reviewing this law, we've adopted 11 amendments and we've been aware of the speed that today's sessions and the urgency to get into effect on January 1st, and just because of these things that Mr. 37 Belkić mentioned earlier, it means only us. A large number of amendments turned out to have been attended by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the minister's lady that certain areas have not been defined. We have concluded in common that it is necessary to look again at the way of regulation regarding tobacco processing, categorization, then to expand the range of action products with luxury products, luxury cars and the like under excise goods. There was also a problem recorded in the way of treating the vines of oil, if used for heating, which means it was impossible to resolve within this short time period, and therefore we are common as members of the Commission to mean all the problems and shortcomings of this law, this, together with the Council of Ministers, was agreed, meant to adopt a conclusion which, by requiring the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of indirect taxation, meant that no later than 31 January in the parliamentary procedure for the delivery of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, which will be done on the basis of the discussion that yesterday was the amendment that we offered and the different solutions, by the time we were given within the deadline agreed with them, which it was written here, means as a conclusion in the Commission's report that we would approach as the Commission to such a proposal for legislation. So please mean that the formal report, as it is, is a very important conclusion, that is, our determination, together with this conclusion, and not just the dry 11 amendments adopted, and that is that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15841	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15842	I thank Mr. Chairman. We thank the Presidents of the Commission who actually led a difficult meeting yesterday, which was exhausting in which the atmosphere was correct, regardless of what practically we accepted all the amendments and refused with a very small difference in the number of votes between people who were on the one hand and on the other. I'm going to talk about the amendments as just an illustration of the principles, to explain which principles here are not acceptable from the point of view of the SDP and our club of MPs. In fact, the debate on VAT has often used the argument that other legal activities, not only social programmes, but also laws such as the Excise Law, will try to correct the injustices that are being brought down to correct through VAT. In fact, we felt that the Excise Act should, among other things, meet two objectives, which is to be in the function of protecting domestic production and in the function of protecting domestic production as a generator for the creation of production jobs that can later generate non-productive jobs. So, in order to even talk about higher employment, we have to have mechanisms that increase, stimulate employment in production. We think that by this way, they say and how, they're not your principles and that goal is not being realized. 38 And the second goal was to introduce even those rates when it would be differentiated, and let alone when the zero rate is abolished, that the Excise Act is a mechanism that needs to be taxed a corresponding luxury as taxed in all countries. For example, even EU countries have different excise duties, they have only established minimum excise duties for certain products. For these very reasons, we felt that, in addition to these two objectives, we should satisfy the third objective which, conditionally speaking, may be contained in this first one, which is that domestic production on the domestic market is protected from unfair competition through imports of goods sent here by....Prices because it is subsidized in its countries, and that is not the case with us. So, in addition to action on the classical high tariff goods that are given here, to be introduced as a principle that can be imported, to introduce an excise duty on those goods that are not of these categories, which is mainly from the domain of the food industry, and very often we had discussions on how to protect domestic primary and not only primary agricultural production. For these reasons, we have proposed to define a mechanism and defined amendments which unfortunately did not get most of them yesterday and which I will talk about a little bit more later. That, above all, after the Council of Ministers' decision, they can be included as excise goods and goods coming from different countries, which are the subject of incentives, and that is not the case with us. And normally, if it gets out, and for God's sake, whoever's interested, they'll know very soon, because we see that they know it very well. Also, here it is proposed to take passenger cars, aircraft, vessels etc. which are first registered in the country additionally excisely taxed, as well as a different set of luxury products. Unfortunately, that principle is not satisfied with this either. So we came in a position for platinum and diapers to be taxed the same way. The principle we have also advocated is to establish the difference between domestic and foreign high tariff goods. And in this light, we have proposed an amendment that went towards the whole set of non-alcoholic beverages, domestic waters, beer, wine, natural juices, unnatural juices, which, according to some estimates, imports into the country of the smallest figures are said to be over 300 million a year, that these high tariff goods are additionally burdened if they come from imports to improve domestic production, at least because it is not disputed that we have and that we know how to make. Especially if it's natural water that flows itself. The amendment was adopted and I thank those who accepted it. There was also a whole set of approaches to how to protect, above all, the tobacco industry, not cigar manufacturers, but a complete tobacco industry. First of all, the producers of the primary tobacco industry, tobacco producers. There were several exceptional amendments very good and counterpart Čeman had one amendment, counterpart Belkić also had an amendment and we came out with one amendment. In the bilateral talks we had in the Commission, we agreed that my colleague Belkić and I should practically come forward with this amendment that has been repeated here in front of you as our common position which is a better solution than what Mr Ćeman is offering, but the worst solution is what is now being offered. What does that mean? This means that the amendment given here and the principle advocates the following – that all those cigarettes produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina with more than 50% domestic tobacco participations, that these cigarettes are applied in a less way than those produced here with a foreign import substance above 50%, as well as foreign cigarettes, quite naturally which are not produced...fuhana and to make a difference 39 between what is conditionally called poor cigarettes and those called standard cigarettes, soft and hard packaging of domestic producers. On these issues, the complete tobacco industry sector supported and often advocated these things and received assurances from the Council of Ministers that they would be met. I'm afraid that's not accepted. There is one amendment that, I hope, Mr Zorić, will correct me if I have made a mistake, we thought that this excise excise policy of excise duty should, among other things, have a social character and in this light we have suggested that instead of releasing a box of oil, the fact that the practical invitation to smuggling was the most common, because of the unorganised state and the poor control mechanisms, we here, after yesterday's debate, suggested that it come out with an amendment that would define the mechanism by which excise duties are paid on the vine, and then that according to a special regulation that would be adopted by the Council of Ministers, institutions that are from the domain of health, social protection, education to have the return of these excise duties, as well as households that are heated on the matte under the conditions that define the appropriate standard and pavilar. So, that you have to pay for the excise and the lot of oil, then in proper procedure to return to you unless you tanked it as a smuggler in the tank. So these principles that we've put out here and I've tried here briefly have led us to think that it would be, to say the least fatally, if the Excise Act were passed without respecting these principles. For these reasons, there are 13 other amendments that you are before you, if I am well aware of the chair of the second reading, to be reasoned. Right? There.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15843	I think you've already done it in the first reading for the good part, but you're right in the second part of course. Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a word. Then let Mrs. Ruža Sopta prepare herself. I apologize, Vinko, Muhamed Moranjkić. Excuse me. I gave my word to Muhamed Moranjkić, after which you have a word. Excuse me, Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15844	No comment. Gentlemen fellow MPs, I have tabled six amendments. They had an extremely good intention to explain some things that weren't there, to bring them into logic that should stand. The truth of one mistake amendment I, under those six, went and when I noticed that someone who should have done it for me had made one mistake, I responded and that amendment I, here's how you see legally, officially corrected and bears the name – correction of amendment I, of those six, and she had the task of explaining tolls. I'm saying Mr. Lagumdžija mentioned about the vine oil, etc. that tolls cause major interference and interference, ambiguity, doubt, and part of the crime that is done in this country when the problem is for derivatives, so I suggested that instead of the first one who mentioned only tolls, a new point would be added to 40 - Putari's additional excise tax to be counted on certain oil derivatives used in vehicles and devices using road withdrawal routes in its basic function. And that's where there's a misunderstanding. Is that excise that's called tolls going to pay for the diesel machine that's driving along the track, whether it's going to be paid for by a scrape that works somewhere in the quarry, which has nothing to do with the road, whether it's going to be some pumps in the irrigation field, etc. and that's where certain problems arise, and I've noticed that in the Law, except for one word from Article 2 says in the context of the Law toll will be solved. And yet they are no longer mentioned anywhere, which is why I found it appropriate and I claim there is room to accept such an amendment for the clarity and application of this law. The second amendment to Article 5, I have noticed, and the one who is not allowed to read, will see that there have been mixing and collapsing of certain members to be created by applying for card printing, arises practically debt confidence relations. To say right in the next article. You can't put a request in printing and you can put it in printing and because the press breaks his machine for half a year and you put a man in charge with a request for printing. So, it's quite logical and normal to form by downloading printed cards, I don't see what's there in both the first and second cases unclear to say, that the unclear amendments I've made are. Furthermore, I noticed what was seen to be domestic production, whether primary, whether processing was placed in an unfair context with import and raw materials and derivatives etc. and products. In particular, the tobacco industry, despite the aid of this industry, I have tried to put a ratio that I have suggested to be of 45 and 60, when it comes to domestics and parties in order to give priority to the domestics. Did I get that 45 right, whether it took 30 or 20, or 50, I don't know exactly. This is my thinking that I have given to the Commission and this esteemed home to evaluate. And vice versa, those 60, whether it took 60, 70 or 100. Some kind of budget that the state won't lose with this percentage, and that the budget will say at least 10% when it comes to filling this item better, I think it's well-meaning, and there's no ambiguity in that article except for something else. I went further, so I noticed with a certain budget that 0.06% per day means not a full 22%, these are extremely expensive funds. It's one dragon penalty and I'd apply it to 0.6, and it's not.06 if I knew that all of these were in a position not to give it on purpose, or not to pay the government a commitment. However, there is also an objective situation in which people are not. Therefore, you for the value of funds on the market, bank, etc. I've made some comparison that's 0.03 adequate, that's not a full 11%, and that's 11% a year, yes, yes, take it. It's another thing that someone else is thinking, I know what I've been doing in my life, those who were in the office were not conflicting except, so now the biggest problem is to charge interest, not the principal, we don't charge each other. Still, when it comes to Amendment V, I've been thinking, it's about the fact that the appeal doesn't withdraw execution. There's only one part that makes sense. There's no other part. We amnesty the courts that will not adequately and quickly solve this problem, and bring practically kidnapping and robbery into one position, because of the ten, nine of these sneering solutions and logs falling. 41 Furthermore, Amendment VI to Article 27 is my additional position which I have proposed to take and measures towards persons who work, and I claim from ten, eight persons who make wrong solutions no one sanctions or has sanctions on that side, only there are a complete range of sanctions available to the debtor, and not in this other country which imports. That's why I suggested that even one, who issues such a solution, and we see and prove and are full of newspapers today, that there are deliberately made such and such solutions, and no one's hair is missing from their heads, that they bear the same adequate sanctions as the one on the other side. And I don't see why these six amendments are unclear to anyone. If there's still some misunderstanding, let him ask me. I'm saying this from life in practice, because I know that this is what's a pain in our market today and what's causing a mess on our market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15845	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić. Have Mrs. Ruža Sopta prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15846	I also had one amendment to this customs law and I'm sorry it didn't pass. I have renewed this amendment, but despite the fact that all my colleagues are representatives who are participating on this commission, they agree that this should be arranged etc. It remains that the state, that the state is meeting its financial needs from social categories, i.e. the heating of BiH citizens, is giving up its income on luxury cars, gold, etc. etc. When it was suggested to be temporarily accepted, and the story of temporaryity, which I do not believe, was temporarily accepted that the cost was reduced by one energy that serves the heat, and that by the end of the first month changes were made and complemented, to make the right strategy to protect it from crime was not accepted, and also the deputy minister, or minister, says that when someone proposed the amendment watches with a golden house, with gold bracelets, etc. Well, we'll have more watch-sellers on the streets, then the deputy minister said, so wait, then we'll have more watch-sellers on the streets. If that's how we're gonna protect that black sale, or the black market on the streets, then I don't think we're on the right track. I don't think those watches are supposed to be sold on the street, just that the excise was there 100%, 0%, or still rewarding those who wear watches of gold, silver, etc. But yesterday and too much talk about this law, I don't want to get exhausted here and get angry-- I see how my colleague Belkić said in the last session that it was all arranged. I'm going to vote finally for this law, defend my amendment after perhaps a silence, but I wanted to say that in this law by who knows which time, here I started reading it, or I came to Article 3 and then I say in this sense, in terms of this law, then a legal person, etc. An entrepreneur, a citizen, that's what that means. And I read that law and said, "God help this law in Croatian." Then come, wherever I open article 30. - taxpayers are legal entities and entrepreneurs, so he's no longer an entrepreneur, Article 33. - On the day of application of this law ceases to apply, it is not 42 that it ceases to apply, then in the light of Chapter 11. – the goods exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have to have, it does not have to have a control or tax stamp on it, but it must not be, it must not be, marked with the sign "only for export" in English or local. I seem to be getting materials in the local language all the time. In the locals! I think once and for all, this should stop. I'm reading the official messenger and then, so there's no difference except for the listpad and October in the version of so on. There's no ha. As the Bosnian language is said, or Croatian, there is nothing but October and October. Well, it's not so-called. to not always make a mistake, please, Bosnian and Croatian, there is almost no difference. He always gets back at me when he says Bosniak, so I thought I'd say, "I didn't even think it was what was called." Uh, we can communicate if you want now and after, but I wanted to say
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15847	Not now, just give the discussion that, you can communicate after, now don't
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15848	We can do it later. I would like to get one material in Croatian one day, and I just saw something split here on our benches. There's nothing in Croatian but h. This is worse next to this header. I don't know what it is. I was just commenting with Ruža here. We get a lot of material today, and then we get, like, material like that. I suggest that, no matter what this isn't about, we're getting materials on the Latin next year. I appreciate that everyone should have the right to be a proposing, but if I'm a proposing and the services write that law in Bosnian or Serbian with a Cyrillic, I'll sign if I have to sign that law, let my colleagues have such a law, only I'm not able to translate it myself. So, I'd like to get materials on the Latin, no matter who they're from, then say it's silently agreed that whoever sends it, etc. etc. I sign here as the first deputy chairman of the Administrative Commission materials on the chili, and that's not hard for me at all, but also for the Latin. So prepare all decisions, conclusions, etc. The administrative commissions and they sign and I don't mind that at all. However, it bothers me when I get one huge material on my Cyrillic and it makes it difficult for me. It's not true that we don't know the Cyrillic. It's hard for us to read. I haven't read it in a long time, and I can read it normally, but it takes me two or three times as long as I read the Latin.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15849	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mrs. Ruža Sopta has her word and I no longer have any first-readers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15850	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues as discussed, I think, Mr. Belkić, the Commission made a great, great effort yesterday to make a contribution to the discussions, and colleagues who have tabled amendments have also made a written contribution to improving this law. Respecting the Minister who said that she simply did not know how to incope in the Law now all these amendments which are rooted and which certainly draws a mathematical calculation, we agreed, or we proposed a conclusion which I hold is not fully written here, and in that sense I would like to propose to supplement this conclusion, it is firstly stated that the Council of Ministers is proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes and Taxes so that it is not only for this law. It seems to me that it was both laws, but if they do not propose by 31.1.2005, the Commission will do so. So there remains one responsibility on the Commission precisely because of what counterpart Zorić said would not be a fraud. The second thing, also in agreement with the Council, with representatives of the Council of Ministers, or representatives of the legislators of this law, has been said that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, is to deliver a brief stenogram of proposals which they themselves have said are very good for improving this law along with all amendments that were certainly far wider than those mentioned here in these brackets, so that it would not be understood that it relates only to the improvement of the part listed in these brackets in the conclusion of point 4. So I would ask that this, too, be completed in the conclusion, if Parliament will declare that it is its conclusion, and if not then that, as these committees, are completed before the adoption of the report, complete this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15851	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Anyone else want to speak from the MPs? Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15852	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there is little time left, while we have these materials and that this procedure that has been accelerated and otherwise these laws are important from a higher point of view. We don't get enough information from other relevant organizations. I would like someone here from the ICC to share their opinion on the amendments adopted by the Commission, and what is important is the amendment to the Law that came before the MPs. Yes, we have often received letters from international organizations, especially the OHR regarding such important laws, none of which have been obtained here. We have agreed at Parliament that we will always get their seal on the laws they bring here from the Commission, or for European integration. I don't see that seal. I don't think we have enough information right now to go to the second stage of voting on this law and, if any of the Council of Ministers or these organizations that I have listed explain this law a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15853	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to talk? First is reading to let you know. If no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a debate on the proposal for a law on excise duties for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 32 votes in favour, without a vote against and 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's excise duties in the first reading. We have a second reading decision. So let's go to another reading, it's in the agenda. In the second reading, we declare amendments. We have amendments here. I have reiterated therefore, gentlemen: - Vinko Zorić, one amendment, which wants to defend again, Zlatko Lagudmžija's thirteen amendments that he wants to defend in the plenary phase, Hazim Felić, two amendments to the Commission's amendments, Mirsad Ćeman, three amendments that he defends in the plenary phase, Momčilo Novaković, who also defends amendments and Muhamed Moranjkić, who submitted amendments without calling for an appropriate member. And I would only ask Muhamed to say what these amendments apply to, because amendments to the Commission's amendment at this stage are possible and amendments that have not been made to the Commission are possible, so they again want to defend themselves at the plenary stage. Just that. This is the second one. All right, Muhammad, then let's know this is it. So Muhamed defends his amendments again, that we only know what these amendments are, what they apply to. And that uncertainty was, well, well, Muhamede. Now it's clear I'm opening a debate about this law in the second reading. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, so here and through the first reading, there have been quite a debate about the amendments themselves. I understand the need for you to say the contents of your amendments. I'd like to ask you to take care of the weather. We should finish the session after this. We still have the agenda, and then we have to wait for the House of Peoples to see, and then we'll have another session. So I'm just asking you to take care of this and I hope that you will honor this appeal of mine. Not withholding, I repeat my rights to tell anyone what he thinks. The word came to mind, as far as I was able to see Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15854	In this regard, I have this one amendment relating to Article 9(1). Point 3. The same article, therefore, is covered by Amendment VI, I mean Mr Lagumdžija and Mr. Ćeman's amendment, help me, I don't know what number, one, number one. I'd like to make a statement to reverse the order a little bit, and I'd like to give up my amendment if Mr. Lagumdžija's amendment was accepted by the deadline. What is foreseen by the amendment can be – never for the Council of Ministers to do anything. It is possible, by the conclusion of one out of this law, to predict the deadline and in that case I would not have had the need at all because I am not the one who advocates that hot oil is poured into a tank of cars, but that people warm themselves and children warm up in schools and I am surprised that my colleague Dušanka and colleague Lagumdžija did not yesterday support my amendment. I can't write children and adults on a computer if it's cold and in a hospital on a computer watching an ultra sound, etc. on the computer, if it's cold. So, I'm surprised you didn't see that social dimension yesterday, as some have recognized your other amendment to computers and computers. I say we don't have much time, here I'd like to vote the other way around because I'd probably give up if either of these two amendments were adopted, and I'd prefer Mr. Lagudmžija's amendment, because I'd probably fix this whole problem completely, but just to make one conclusion that's a deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15855	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Let him prepare, let him prepare, who answers the word? Mr. Lagumdžija first answered, so Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15856	I thank Mr. Chairman, I will briefly take into account the conclusions of the Commission which she has made towards the Council of Ministers, and concerning the observed shortcomings in the law, i.e. in this law on the one hand. On the other hand, given the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible, that is, as I spoke about the previous SDS law, not a single amendment will be supported. So we will vote in favour of the text of the Law adopted on the Commission. We will uphold such a law, and it is precisely in order to honor the presidency's suggestions to speed up the process for this reason that I will give up the amendment that I have proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15857	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. Let him prepare himself for who's next. There's no next one for now. Mr. Moranjkić next, is Moranjkić. So if you're looking for a word, you'll get a word. You have amendments, that's why. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself. 46 Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15858	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendments you have ahead of you, I'd just like to explain them for a little while. The first amendment, then the fourth amendment and the 11th amendment, are such in that order because the amendments are compatible by members, concerns the creation of a mechanism allowing the Council of Ministers to introduce special excise duties for those goods that have appeared on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market at dumping prices that enable us to contract free trade with all the countries it has. This also enables us to make the rules of the VTO at the stage in which we are in which we are perfectly natural and the rules of the VTO and at the stage when we enter the VTO allow us to have some transitional period that will allow us to do such a thing. I am saying this because especially some countries with skis we have a free trade agreement are the higher stage of European integration than we are, so they have an obligation, such as Rumunija, Bulgaria, Croatia, I only say as examples that have free trade agreements and the obligation to enter customs-free goods from the EU, which basically makes those countries an ideal, ideal platform for repacking European dumping surpluses that will then be introduced to us and that will completely remove our, mainly food industry that you have often talked about here. One, Amendment I, which tells counterpart Špirić that, following the Council of Ministers' decision, they must be involved, can include those paid for by the country of origin, and we do not have it. Amendment IV defines a mechanism which obliges the Council of Ministers, then Amendment IV obliges the Council of Ministers to do so and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly within the appropriate time limit that any of this is possible so that we can seek what is not in line with our conclusions. And Amendment XI, in practice, I apologize, Amendment XI practically closes the circle, because it defines that it is an additional excise, because it may happen that from some country it is importing goods that have already been excised, so if it is after dumping, then another action is being taken for the areas. I think logic is very simple and this will make us still as Parliament responsible for domestic production. She's like that. And what's even more important is bringing down the pay imbalances that everyone warns us that it's getting more critical from day to day. The second amendment defines passenger cars, aircraft and vessels, as well as luxury products on which we now have no excise duty and is not normal in one country in the world that there is no excise duty on it. In other words, we are now finally coming up with that story that we have led from VAT, and I would like this parliament to deny us by adopting this amendment and making the difference between luxury goods and goods for the widest consumption. The amendment of the third that follows then defines exactly what are the luxury products. I thank the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, 47 representatives who participated in the work of the Commission, so they helped us and gave us exactly this classification that was better than we had as proposings, so I thank the Minister and her team who enabled us to make this amendment III and that amendment number X to be precise. Amendment X defines what cars, planes and vessels are with and without cabins that are taxed additionally, while for planes it is intended here to tax every plane, including one that has only four seats. For cars, only those cars that are more expensive than 30,000 marks are expected to be actionable. Cars that use our state leadership would have been taxed a little bit more than it's ever been before, which if we adopt, I'm sure we'll have in mind when we adopt the budget. The next amendment I draw your attention to are Amendments V and VI and counterpart Zorić, amendment, you have referred to Amendment VI, which is both V and VI. Amendment V actually defines that for institutions in the fields of health, education, culture and social work, they are paid excise duty, because they usually take on a large range of oil and when they pay it to make it according to the relevant rules, or standards, which will be prescribed that this excise duty is practically paid back to them. I think this mechanism will be very simple because by introducing VAT, we will certainly have to pay people back taxes, so it is no new mechanism and no addition of administration. Amendment VI applies only to the population, because it is not right that in some parts of the country, it is okay to stimulate socially endangered people everywhere with heating, but it is wrong to stimulate someone for a plague, and somewhere where the plague is not to stimulate them if it is to the gas. If gas is stimulated in Sarajevo because we have gas, there is no reason to stimulate it in another part of Bosnia and Herzegovina if there is no gas. Beriz had a concrete proposal, which I welcome to further create the pipeline in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this cannot be resolved by the Excise Act this year and that is why this proposal has been made as well. Amendment number VII is practically an amendment which is the continuation of what was adopted yesterday. Namely, it implies that, together with Amendment VIII, a high tariff excise product which has been carried out by alcohol and cigarettes is to make a difference between the domestic line, domestic plums and foreign vines and foreign plums, i.e. domestic vines and plums compared to whiskey. So to make a difference that's perfectly natural. When it comes to cigarettes, this is a requirement that has come from all the joint tobacco people associated with the tobacco industry, both primary producers and others. This is a practical proposal that goes towards stimulating tobacco production so that tobacco and cigarettes made from our tobacco are bought to over 50%, to be privileged to those made entirely from imported tobacco. That's another one in a row. So, I apologize to you colleagues for speaking for so long, but I just want to draw attention to you that here in the amendments is just what you all said less when we had a story about the protection of production. That's what the minister who's sitting here said, that's what this Parliament's leadership was saying, here's a way to protect it. 48 And Amendment number IX, in fact, there says that on these planes and vessels with and without cabins, together with cars belonging to high luxury goods to pay an additional 20% of taxes, or to the luxury goods we mentioned. And finally, Mr. Chairman, Amendments XII and XIII are technical amendments that don't need to be explained, but they're not as important in themselves as those others that are in office, I repeat the protection of domestic production, the reduction of payment rebalancing and social policy that we have to conduct through the Excise Act. I'd just ask you before you refuse this by some kind of party discipline and prejudice, maybe you don't like Lagumdžija, or the club where he comes from, because it's a stereotype, I'd just ask in the end. I would only ask you to think again about every amendment in one way that you've thought so far when you've stood up for these principles before this law was before you. I have no doubt that my colleague Leho will support a part of these amendments. It's such a smile on her face that I just can't believe
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15859	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. There's no need to go into a debate right now who's got a smile on his face.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15860	First, Mr. Chairman, I talked to no one, and I spoke to my colleague, Leho, who didn't answer me, and that made it clear to me. So that's one thing. Allow
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15861	Please, please, continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15862	Let me finish. Indeed today you remind me of someone who, if he told you who you remind me of, might be offended.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15863	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15864	So, I mean, I'm not under investigation. Second, I think the reflectors are there, not yet. I mean, don't say that. This is Professor Kunić, as a little child, not to talk to my colleague, Leho ska, and I'm not talking. I really don't want to say what you did to Moranjkić. There's a man sitting here traumatized. I didn't see him as if he wasn't from the BOS man.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15865	Just keep playing Lagumdžija. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15866	Now that you've let me continue, I thank you, that would be all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15867	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will repeat a few sentences that I was invited to say at the beginning of the visa-vi that came to someone my amendments came to, and my amendments were unclear, and here's the thing I might do again, so I apologize if I do. With all my good intentions, because at least that's how I try to act in this House constructively, honestly, with all the respect for all the opinions I've tried to engage myself with part of my thinking that I've exceeded into six amendments. These six amendments are not visas of certain speeds, and there have been such reflections in the depths of some resolutions, but some third in order to improve and text themselves, and certain in my opinion the ambiguities that have been reported, at least so far when these specific tasks are applied as well. So Amendment I was directed towards tolls, and I wanted it to be accepted that in the Law with one sentence, the truth was a little expanded toll, i.e. that it was an additional excise tax that was calculated on oil derivatives used in vehicles and devices that used the road, i.e. the road. That's why their name is toll. And the derivatives are accounted for by those other types of excise duties, and they are spoken, and I have not touched them. This isn't said and I know that in practice this creates certain misunderstandings, that we, let's say, remember one of my friends had a problem when he gave oil to the railways that someone wanted to also calculate excise duties on that oil used in the locomotive. And then it's a wide sticker and I explained it in the first part, it wouldn't spread it, but that's why I said this should apply to the machines and devices that use the road, which is why it is the toll and I need this to stand in one of the points. I put them there under 3rd, and I don't see why she would be a balance to this law. My second amendment referred to Article 5(3) where the creation of tax obligations was made so as to result in the application for stamp printing. Visa-you logic, as well as Article 18 where you spoke to other similar problems, it is logical that they are created by taking over these stamps. Because I now write the order of a million stamps and give one printing place, it finds no paint, it is imported from Sweden, it takes 3-4 months, etc. It is logical for them to come into existence then and that is one more technical question for me, as well as a logical question that could cause certain ambiguities and problems in application. Amendment III to Article 14 is my attempt to place the domestic production of the tobacco industry and tobacco production in a better position of foreign visas. That's what I was thinking, and I immediately said, I suggested to the member that it be 45 instead of 49, which is required by the proposal of this law, but for the domestic ones, to strengthen them, to make a difference and thus try to solve a part of the smuggling that today extremely in our market has fallen apart and is making 50 mars depriving the state for certain revenues, etc. That's what I've been thinking, and I've said, if they do, and I see there's a gentleman and some of those suggestions that others have, and they're going in this one, I'm giving up if I need these percentages, but I've been trying to give it up in a certain way. My IV amendment has tried, I've tried visas of certain problems that have arisen in the collection of interest which today are really cancer wounds in courts and everywhere to try to reduce them and bring them to a reasonable measure and I think this measure would sooner be charged than rained so it doesn't charge what stands there. I was simply guided by that logic to be 0.03 and I recalculated, I made some sense that it was close to 12% a year, that it was a well-valued pair etc. Wherein He enters and the punishment and enters and reparates in a certain way. Amendment V I have tried not to delay the execution of a visa-vi practice solution by this solution, I say that this is not a good solution, because in practice we have something completely different and there are certain manipulations that fall solutions, and that no one responds to solutions, and then we come to a whole other opportunity where citizens and business entities tell us that the state appears as a robber who in a certain way kidnapped the money, and then by the processes you never get to your money. And finally Article 6 tells my proposal that the entire range of criminal measures, they are all looked at from the first to the tenth set so that the debtor is punished. In this process and in all of this, there is someone else in this paper, whether it is a state with its institutions, bodies, whether someone third, who issues such solutions, solutions etc. that he feels a little bit of punishment, too. And that's why my proposal was to take the same measure of punishment and those who betray the wrong solutions, because I don't know if it's wrong from indiscretion, or whether it's wrong from some sort of agreement, objecting with someone, etc., and in an extreme and drastic measure if it's repeated. It's a need to mean it's not an accident, that people like that can get out of work at the very least and that they can't do it. I think that these are correct my attempts to improve a part of the text if nothing else in this law and it is my intention and it is not my intention to give a lecture here or to rape someone on my thoughts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15869	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15870	I'd just like to ask if Minister Marić can respond to Article 29 of this Act or Mr Doko, it's me. Bringing in a single tax and control stamp by 30 June 2005 at the latest, alcoholic beverages can be placed on the market, marked with existing tax and control marks. And now watch out here, this part, is said in item 2 - tax bonds of excise duty on tobacco processing and legal persons... dealing with tobacco processing traffic are required to register stocks of tobacco processing on the day of application of this law and deliver within 7 days, since the amendment here has been adopted, so it is not 3 but 7 days of application of this law. 51 I am now interested, likely this law is pretending to take effect in January of next year. Since you already have a large amount of tobacco processing marked with stamps and prices, how this transitional period will be realized because it will cause confusion, or it will stick to the stamp, but then we are in colluding with Article 1 of this Act. So I'd like to ask you to give an explanation, because that's a very important question so that you don't make a run for it in these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15871	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? From the MPs does anyone want to speak yet? Can a representative of the Council of Ministers give an answer to the question? I would ask, therefore, if none of the MPs ever answer for a word again, ma'am, I conclude the debate. The minister has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15872	It is obvious that this law is much more interesting than the Transport Tax Act and it is quite logical because the systematic Act on Tax on Transport of Products and Services and the Law which has a duration of up to one year, and this Act on Excises is a law that does not have a period of time, in this form it has but means as the Law on Excises and Excises should be followed by the Law on VAT. And it is very good that so many amendments have been made to this law and it is very good to have a debate on this subject. What I would remind Parliament of, which perhaps should have been done immediately, would have been next. This law, as well as the Tax on Transport of Products and Services, is indeed a law that has been built on the basis of the existing three laws in the same area. It is not a new law, unfortunately, a new law, a new one, a better one, a more modern law on excise duties and excise duties, but rather a mix of laws was made for one and for the other, and there were, of course, some such and technical errors and there was also the need to respond to these amendments. What the Directorate of Direct Taxation followed and the Management Board is following, so representatives of the entity of the Brcko District and here is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the principle was that in the first phase of the state-level legislation that will not significantly deviate from existing provisions in existing laws. And that the part in the rules that praises and for which there is a themoral time problem is resolved through individual decisions of the Management Board, and that exists in the two amendments that are before you today. So, by this law, we won't be able to solve anything we want to solve today. At yesterday's debate, it would have been very good if there were more people, if she had been a little longer and more quality. Indeed, through all the amendments, there has been a report here by this committee, debated everything, and behind this amendment was the support of this committee. Principleally, it would be very good if Parlametn voted as close to the law as possible to the existing laws. We specifically talked about what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about. I came halfway through the story and I don't know if he said 52, but the Management Board launched an initiative immediately to amend and supplement the Excise Act in a way that really respects what was promised. Unfortunately, the first time the VAT law was passed, if there were luck and wit, these two laws would first be passed, and then the VAT law would be discussed, because the weather they mean have... a break in application, in a way of thinking, etc. The significant difference means in the laws on sales tax was just a different level of Brcko District and entity rate, and that's why we all told the egg how the Brcko District works great, they have so many resources in the budget, so there were some small advantages within the law, where they could achieve some additional sources of funding. So anything that would fall within the scope of the amendments and the addition of the Law should be considered accordingly. It wouldn't be good to consider it within the framework of the amendment, because we don't have a whole in front of us right now. We should all read well what luxury products mean, if we're going to put all these luxury products as an expanded tax base, which puts the cobage boiler, as previously prescribed, in order to really be quality. So, it would be good to follow the conclusion of this committee that was sitting yesterday and which had been tortured yesterday, when it was said that it would allow the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. the Council of Ministers to propose amendments and amendments to the law quickly and which, which means, will be built up, will extend the tax base and will give, indeed, the difference of funds, which is lost and due to the least charged customs duty, and because of tomorrow, here, this VAT rate will be complemented by the burden of those who have more and use these products etc. Because otherwise it's done in every country. So I would ask you to vote in this spirit on these amendments. Regarding these remarks concerning, what Mr Bešlagić was saying and, regarding several more of these same things, about tax stamps, about work, about application in particular. In the meantime, since we were running out of time, we have just been tasked with making people individually to make from this tax sector, rules that always go against the law, and those rules are always double, triple thicker than the law, and so it is now. So, and the existing rules, so these three existing laws are being followed, and they really cover the topic much, much broader and our taxpayers, and we all know pretty well how to deal with it. The issue of printing tax stamps was a question which will be resolved in the following way. Only new unique stamps will be printed. Meanwhile, as it is called, in the meantime, this issue will be resolved, because it is already timed here that three bottoms before the law is published, so it would be important to pass today a law, which is as close as possible to the electoral variant, in particular that we have understanding and song to some, according to all agreements, contracts and other things that we have signed with the world, in a way that we do not violate the existing procedure by introducing any new additional burden on any product outside the country, because we are in danger of losing a certain preferential position, it is really a matter that, in order to change such a thing, we need to assess that we are apportioned in the matter of excessive imports, and not to resolve this tax law. Tax laws need to be taxed. The tobacco law should solve our dilemmas, our problems forever. To pass state law at the level of the Council of Ministers and Parliament, which will finally explain to us all why we have these problems and how we will solve how we will sort out cigarettes, how we will improve the export of our cigars. Yesterday there was a story that we weren't exporting anything, that 53 very much we were importing, that we were having problems with our neighbors because that's what's going on, and so on. I don't know any imported water, but don't settle this stuff by tax law. Tax laws, meaning, serve the part where they are qualitative basic laws so as to say in the context of the insurance of funds for the operation of this part and of the budget and of other users, can be ensured. But we need to pass really these other system laws, which is why we did yesterday in the framework of this commission's work and made this report, which says that everything else needs to be done, but we need to do it quickly. It means that we accept this theory and that we accept the law that is approximated to the original text and that it goes into order very quickly and that everything that is missing and that with these amendments and additions to the law to extend the tax base, to tax those who are richer, and when the VAT law is applied, it should now think about being as close as possible to the original variant and that if this law, if we want to do something, be adopted at another home and that it really takes effect 1.1. there will be little, of course, confusion in the first month, absolutely will be applied to the old laws and we will have to give one cover to it, there will be some tax payments for sure, because a new order is published two days ago, people will have to cope, and that is one month like when it was for payment traffic, so there was a few problems and for a list of supplies, but we have to give the legislation that we have to the law on which we are going to the law. He points to this. You need to turn around here. If we're going to spread this all the way, first of all, we're going in a little bit, and we're going into the scope of the Indirect Taxation Administration, and we're also dealing with the law on the indirect Taxation System. There the imam says that this tax policy is being conducted, we have a obligation to decide together in a broader one-dialobe with entities on a new burden of distribution tomorrow of these incomes, etc. So this is really original in the state right now, but without entities and without Brcko District, these laws will not be passed in the future. We must have the support of those who have delegated these powers to us. We can't do that now, I don't know, here, though, we need to have a discussion with them, and we're doing it in such a way that we communicate within, I don't know this board of directors, a little name isn't what it is, but that's how it is. And, come on, please, let's pass the law like this with these amendments in this report and go as quickly as possible after the adoption of the Budget in amending and supplementing the laws of one and the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15873	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear colleagues, anyone else want to talk? I see Mrs. Milićević has already shown signs that she wants to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević, but very short if you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15874	Since Madam Minister was absent when we started discussing the excise law, I just want her to, in fact, consider the amendments that await us. I would like to draw attention to the fact that what is in Mr Lagumdžija's amendments and other amendments is exactly what we have found to be unresolved or not properly solved. But to point out that there are shortcomings in these amendments. It's those indiscretions. That's exactly what we were looking for in that conclusion that Mrs. Sopta and Mr. Zorić insisted on. 54 It means that in case the law is passed and such a conclusion is adopted, that a quality supplement of the excise legislation is made. I'm just going to say that, in my opinion, they're missing here, if a customer is an artist, means whether it's excise goods, whether it's clothing and fur shoes, if it's just natural fur, it says fur, we said yesterday that we have a short period of time, that we would precisely define concepts and have a quality change, supplementing that law. So, that it takes them within a month, we said it was the last deadline of January 31st, to get precisely in these areas that were defined by these amendments to a quality amendment and the addition of the law, and I am free to tell the Minister that we will also deliver the extension to yesterday's agreement, meaning the stenogram of yesterday's session, extended with the requirements that went towards the Council of Ministers and the Commission, which will enter what we talked about and the way we proposed to solve the problems and to expect the end of January with the draft amendments and the addition of the law, and I call on my colleagues to vote on the text of the law in the way the Finance Commission has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15875	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Ćeman was still looking for a word, and then we'll conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15876	Honestly, I'm not sure what it's like to say or make a bigger mistake or what's a better move. To accept some of these amendments, or with far too many explanations by the Commission, and to announce that within a month these things should be specified, because we are really talking about amendments from Lagumdžija colleagues. Actually, there are things that are absolutely acceptable and there should be no doubt, and on the other hand, if there's something to be done then that makes sense, but here, I'm saying, I'm going to see how I'm going to define myself. I, however, want to ask a question to my colleague Lagumdžija, but also to Mrs. Minister, is related to Amadnment I and Amendment IV of my colleagues Lagumdžija. In fact, here it is quite logical to point out, possibly dumped prices, etc. but I have some information that a timely repressed agreement between BiH and the European Union countries is that under a more favourable regime, let's say we import products to which Amendment I and Amendment IV would apply, and on the other hand, we have again as BiH a favourable regime for our goods in those countries, as competitive as we are and, of course, exports without customs etc. In order to, for example, normally refer to these amendments that are very reasonable at first sight and to protect domestic production are impressed, it simply has to have this response. I expected Mrs. Minister to at least comment on these two amendments, along with the others she commented or missed, because they are really very important. On the one hand, we must not compromise our path exactly and according to European integration, the WTO, over here, and on the other hand, screaming people here for a reason to protect, among other things, domestic production, so it's very difficult to reconcile, but we must seem to drive in exactly that way. I expect an answer either from the amendment promoter or from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15877	Thank you. Here's Mirsad, Mr. Ćeman, has opened a further debate as far as I can see. Don't apologize, there's no need. Here, does anyone else want to talk? I'm asking if anyone wants to talk? My question is very clear. Mr. Lagumdžija wants to speak, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15878	Mr. Chairman, first I don't want to talk, but Mr. Ćeman has asked a question. Eh, now I, under a) as a gentleman, under b) as a man who knows the charter order, wait if the minister will answer, it is not my turn to answer before her. But I'd wait, and if he won't, then I'll answer anyway. Here you go, Minister, for all I care, I'd be after you...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15879	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. The word has Mrs. Finance, I'm asking her to go out for a pay phone and the stenogram says she has to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15880	The issue of home production protection is in another ministry, and I'd like to keep it there and get rid of it. Not to be dealt with by laws that fall within this ministry's domain. So, the issue of protection of domestic production will be resolved in entities related to subsidies, whether we've worked it out enough, installed, tobacco production, subsidising wine producers, wheat producers, of course we shouldn't, because we have to work on it. On the other hand, by introducing such additives into this excise law, of course they will tear down the contracts we have concluded with the Member States of the European Union, related to the export of our products to the European Union, then the question is, how many products we export to the European Union and what it means. We've got preferential treatment. Export of our products without customs duties. And, of course, we need to protect in case of excessive imports, in the case of dumped prices, etc. but not here and not for all products in the excise law proportionally. It's a case, when this case happens, that it's a selective approach, and we've already applied it to some countries in the environment. In the meantime, we have applied this meaning, but this is not the place in the excise law, it is then prescribed by the Council of Ministers' decision, on the basis of the article, I do not know which foreign trade policy, etc. So, this topic is in another ministry, and in this ministry it's going to happen, it's going to happen in case we lose income, talk about the fiscal, talk about how we're going to do it well, how we're going to distribute it to both subsidies and to protect domestic production, under quotes, so these are subsidies to help producers, how to help buy-in tobacco stations tomorrow, etc. We're not gonna stop anything with this excise. We're gonna destroy these contracts, and on the other hand, we're not gonna make this any better. So I really think about these things, that these simply amendments aren't the place right now in this law. I'm really asking you to look at it that way. If you need a broader explanation about foreign trade policy and the rest, here, the minister is 56 by chance here and he can talk about it, but now you'd really like it to be,...it's a very important ministry, it's also about my ministry as a consequence of the work and this ministry. But it would be really good if we could pass the law now, as closely as possible with the original text of the law and then start with the changes and additions. About the amendments, for the cars, the amendment brought on Mrs. Sopta's commission, I really didn't know about it. I said the administration made three lists of amendments and a bill, classifying it, but it didn't work out, but it didn't get to work. When an amendment works, we all know that we're always missing something and that I need you to follow the rulebook, without it there's no application, without it it's chaos, without it there's no payment, you know. We've come to the end of the year, to allow the administration to function, to start working, to issue this... to publish it by the end of the year, that people know on the ground what all taxpayers will do, and let's then change and supplement by adding these things that can be added to this law, by expanding the tax base, and these other things really need to be solved in another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15881	I thank the minister. Who wants to move on? Mr. Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15882	I thank Mr. Chairman, since Mr. Ćeman asked me to thank him and see this as a nice way of dialogue, which can lead us to, however, come up with a common solution, which, I'm sure, will be better than the one which any of us will be pushing alone. I belong to people who teach my students that no one is as smart as all of us, so there's no reason why we don't try to get some collective sense into us to get to a better solution. I want to answer your question directly to my colleague, Ćeman. This will not violate any of our contracts with the European Union, although we have heard here that as the minister says some of them may be contracts. Let me be told which contracts and what's going to break this? I'm responsible for saying he won't. In all the contracts we have about free trade, such preferences that we have from the European Union, we have the right to defend against dumping prices. The dumping price is when you get cheese here at the price of three stamps, because it's manufactured by 13, and someone subsidized it 10. So that's one thing. Why don't we export to the countries of the European Union? We do not export to European Union countries according to the preferences they make, because we do not have domestic production that is competitive for the European Union. And what we're peddling here right now is just trying to boost domestic production a little bit, so that it can produce something that will be competitive for the European Union. Protocol VII of the European Union, I'm sorry there are no gentlemen from the Directorate for Eurypical Integration. Protocol VII of the European Union, which, unfortunately, we do not yet have the obligation to implement with the European Union since 1.1.2005, three of the countries of the closer and further neighbourhood that we have a free trade agreement, undertakes to open their borders completely to the European Union, for which we have no obligation. And we'll have it when we get to that stage of negotiations. What does that mean? This means that from 1.1.2005, don't say that we didn't know, it will appear from some neighbouring countries and the neighbourhood, as the minister of former foreign affairs, I won't mention what the neighbourhood is, 57 which are countries, so they don't think I have anything against them, on the contrary, they will be in a position to import cheaply dumped prices of goods, not for their own market, but to transfer it to us and what it looks like. Look at the statistics on external trade in BiH, and you will see that we export bananas to one of our neighbouring countries of all agricultural products. I guess we know we don't make bananas. Now, the fact that we're exporting bananas to one of our neighboring countries, more than all the fruit and vegetables that we're producing here, that's because we've imported favorably bananas from someone, so we're exporting them. Now, as we export bananas to someone, someone will export something else to us tomorrow, and I suggest we try to give these amendments to this law to the Council of Ministers and to the competent ministry of some kind of mechanism and make it mandatory for them to worry about when something comes up. I fully understand that this law is fully in the domain of the finance minister. However, this law is also in the domain of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, if we put it that way, and that's why I thought the minister was here on purpose, not by accident. As for the subsidy in entities, I'm not asking us to do subsidies here, but to collect revenue so that subsidies can be made. Look at the entity budgets, the federal one was adopted yesterday. The federal budget provides for less funds to encourage agriculture than the law obliges it to give for agriculture. You know why? Because there's no money. So the suggestion here is to collect it. And, finally, to answer my colleague, Ćeman, to your question, I sincerely hope that I helped you to support at least some of these amendments, on the basis of this one argument, and as far as Madam Secretary of the Car is concerned, the fact is that my colleague Sopta suggested it, and then she gave up on it, and we didn't, I didn't suggest it, because the proposal by her colleague Sopta was on the proposal, and since her colleague Sopta gave up in favour of the conclusion, which I don't believe will be realized, that's why I completed her amendment for cars and planes, and that's why I've done it right on the basis of your material from the Ministry that you've been very kind of giving us as extraordinary and which I've been satisfied, and I've been able to bring this amendment to the relevant... I'm Mr. Ćeman, have I answered your question? Your nod is enough for me. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15883	Thank you. He'll get the words, Mr. Belkić. I call once again on the MPs, we in our Rules of Procedure, which is a fundamental problem in the technology of this Parliament's work, is that we do not have a limited discussion in our rules of procedure. First time for a replica for an amendment, and then we're brought into the situation we've been brought into. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has the first time to discuss, discuss five minutes, then a minute, 30 seconds, and those rules are respected. I'm trying to be as rational as possible, and I'm asking you once again to take care of it, if at least we don't have business arrangements for these facts. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15884	I hope you didn't tell me that. I'm disciplined.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15885	No, you're not meant to do that at all. This is for all of us and for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15886	Thank you very much. Here's a clue to that, I'll say, according to the 2003 Foreign Chamber of Commerce, 6000 tonnes of cigarettes imported to BiH. For the first nine months of 2004. 6,120 tons of cigarettes. The total Bosnianherceogagic market spends 8,000 cigarettes. We have processing capacity for the needs of the whole BH market. We could stimulate domestic production, domestic production to provide processors and free ourselves from importing cigarettes. Was it short?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15887	You have indeed met for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Evorpa. Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Who wants to talk any further? Thank you, colleagues. I'm closing the debate. Let's get ready to make a statement on the amendments. Eh, I will, therefore, plead, the sectarian will add amendments to me. Mr. Momčilo Novaković gave up the amendment, right? And, with Mr Mumamed Moranjkić, give me his amendments is a vague situation. muhamede, I'm sorry to have to do this to you, so Article 94(2), but you only have two amendments to defend yourself. Amendment I and amandman I again I. You have an amendment I to Article 4 and Amendment I to Article 1 that's what I have here. Is that two amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15888	I really do, Mr. Chairman, care why we don't respect what we agreed on. First of all, in this particular case, let's throw away the Bosniak language with some old, rooted words, let's drop the Rules of Procedure and say when it comes to these laws, the rules don't apply to the rules of procedure. No, no, in that specific sense of time, and we said that the amendments are being made until the session itself, that's what I meant. And I said I needed some of my amendments that I sent to the Parlamentary Assembly, which were not,...to no one's hands, and I see that none of them came in, then someone would multiply them. I expressed myself orally, because I didn't have a time when, when I came to Parliament, I found out that my amendment... and then I went and read the amendment by amendment. He's got you somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15889	Give me that original copy of your amendment to see it to God. Thus, when it comes to Mr. Moranjkić's amendments, Mr. Moranjkić defended six amendments on the commission. Mr. Moranjkić is on board 59, and that's why I see all the time, because I get what comes after the commission as an amendment. Mr. Moranjkić defended six amendments on the commission. These amendments have experienced the fate they have experienced and have been expected, if the MP wishes to defend his amendments again or to challenge the amendments, then repeat those amendments, as is the procedure. Either to repeat amendments that have not passed or to challenge the amendment committees. We are, let me finish, I'm not going wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15890	Well, neither was I invited to the committee, nor was I defending the commission on what, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15891	muhamede, you got the commission report, you got it today. Just a little attention, please, so I can explain things. This is the secretary. Please, may I have your attention and you, Mr. Moranjkić, instead of or repeating these amendments, could have done so by the beginning of the session today, according to the House's conclusion, invested one document entitled, here, received 29.12 by all the psolans, people must have known what the vote, in which you are investing, was subject to amendment I to Article 4. The proposal for the Excise Act in BiH and then you say Amendment I to Article 4 is: 7th toll should be inserted, and Amendment I to Article 1 should be inserted into the new point 3 which would read: tolls are additional excise taxes, etc. Look, now the problem is next. How many amendments do you have in the plenary phase? Forget the amendments you had in front of the board. What you're pointing out, all the time I'm asking you what your amendment is, in fact, to know what I'm going to put to the vote, to make it clear here to the House. I don't mind putting it to the vote, but I don't know what.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15892	...did the two of us say here, when you said it again under 1 and 1 when I said it exactly under 2 I told you. And if I didn't, then I don't know what I was saying in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15893	So you're repeating all the amendments that didn't go through on the board, with these repairs. Please, I'm asking the House to prepare. We are going to declare Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendments to the excise law in BiH, and I urge you to prepare to vote on Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendment, I said. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendments to the excise law in BiH. Amendments submitted pursuant to Article 94(2) The rules of procedure of this house. We move to a statement on Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 16 votes in favour, 16 against and 2 abstentions, the amendment does not have a parliamentary majority and amendments, you are not registered, and you voted. Where you'll be looking for 60. For all the galleys. No problem. It's not a problem, we just have a big expense, but okay. Please, at the request of MP Mirko Blagojević, I declare this vote invalid, prepare, repeat the vote for Amendment I. You will, in accordance with the request of the MPs for all his amendments, prepare the lists and give, of course, to Mr Lagumdžija to see how anyone voted. You don't have to multiply for all MPs, just hand it over to Mr. Lagumdžija. And as far as I'm concerned, enough is what we have in the archives. The amendment and Mr. Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So the amendment didn't get a majority, because it voted 16 for, voted 18 against and 1 abstention. We move to an amendment II statement. Amendment II to Mr Lagumdjia. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 12 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. The amendment has received Parliament's support and is becoming an integral part. Amendment II has been accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment III to Mr Lagumdzija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 14 against, 4 abstentions, there is general parlamentary support, 15 from the Federation, and as far as I've seen 3 from RS, so we don't have a majority from RS. We agreed that when we got into a situation like this, we'd go to the second circle right now. I now call on MPs who vote against the amendments to prepare and vote against those who are against the Federation and RS amendments. Prepare yourselves, therefore, those who vote against. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, from Federation 8 v, RS 6 v, these are not two-thirds of either from the Federation or from the RS. I find Amendment III adopted. We move to a statement on Amendment IV of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. We're voting on amendment IV to Mr. Lagumdzija. Vote now. For 14 against 18.4 abstentions, the amendment did not win the general parliamentary majority. We're going to declare amandman v. to Mr. Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 15 against and 1 abstention, enough entity majority. 15 Federation 6 RS, amendment received support. The amendment adopted and becomes an integral part of the text. Amendment VI to Mr Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 61 16 versus, 5 abstentions, there is no parliamentary majority. Amendment VI has not been adopted. Amendment VII to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, versus 20, 4 abstentions. The amendment didn't get the required majority. It's not adopted. We're moving on to a statement on Amendment VIII to Mr Lagumdzija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, versus 13, abstentions 9. 10 from the Federation, 4 from the RS there is no entity majority from both entities, as far as I can see. We're going to the second round. We're going to the other way around. Those who are against the amendments vote. Prepare for this second round of voting. Those who object to prepare themselves. J. Vote now. 9 from the Federation v., 5 from RS has no two-thirds from neither the Federation nor the RS. I find Amendment VIII accepted. Mr. Lagumdji's amendment. Prepare to vote. We vote on Amendment IX. Vote now. 19 for, 12 against, 5 abstentions,... missing the entity majority from RS. We're moving on to a plea. It's the ones who are against it. Let's reverse the statement, because the amendment has a general majority. So, the ones who are against it vote. This is the second round of voting. Prepare against voting. Vote now. The opposition is from Federation 7, RS 6. That's not two-thirds. It's less than two-thirds, so I also declare Mr Lagumdzija's amendment to the text of the law. Mr. Lagumdžija amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, versus 15. 15 The Federation, 5 RS, exists both the general and entity parliamentary majority. Amendment X has, too, been adopted. Amendment XI prepare to vote for Amendment XI. Vote now. 15 for, versus 17, abstention 4. amandman XI does not have the necessary parliamentary majority. Amendment XII. Vote now. 16 for, versus 15, abstentions 6. Federation 14, RS 2. We're going to the reverse circle in reverse voting. All those against the amendment vote against. Vote now. 62 9 and 8 of the Federation and RS have no two-thirds majority. I also find that this amendment has been incorporated into the text of the law. We move on to Amendment XIII of Mr Lagumdjia. Amendment XIII Vote now. 19 for, 16 against and 2 abstentions. 15 – 4 is missing the entity majority from RS. There is a general parliamentary majority. Those who object should prepare for the vote. We're going to the second round of voting on this amendment. Prepare to vote. You're voting now. 8 Federation, 7 RS. There's no two-thirds. The amendment is declared adopted. You're giving me the next group of amendments. Those were Mr. Lagumdžija's amendments. Mr. Vink Zorić's amendments. Vinko Zorić has submitted one adjective as far as I can see. So Mr. Vinko Zorić submitted one amendment. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote on Mr Vink Zorić's amendment. Vote now. 10 for, 20 against, 6 abstentions. The amendment did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. Give me the next amendment. We're going to Mr. Hazim Felić's amendment. He has two amendments. We're voting on the amendment and Mr. Hazim Felić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 for, 19 against, 2 abstentions. The amendment did not receive general parlamentary support. Prepare to vote on Amendment II. We're voting on amendment II to Mr. Felić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 11 for, 21 against, 5 abstentions, the amendment has not received support, the amendment has not been adopted. Give me the next group of amendments. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. We're voting on the amendment and Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 8 for, 20 against, 3 abstentions. The amendment didn't receive support. We are going to vote on Amendment II. Amendment II vote now. 63 9 for, 27 v, 1 abstention. The amendment didn't receive support. We move to a statement on Amendment III to Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman withdraws his III amendment. So we won't even make a statement about him. These were Mr. Ćeman's amendments. We have Mr. Moranjkić's amendments. We will also vote on those amendments that were on the Commission. So you have those amendments Mr. Moranjkić defended on the Commission, which have been corrected today. Consider that a renewed amendment and we're going to vote. I don't see any other way out of this situation. There are six amendments. We vote on amandman I. I. I invite you to prepare. We're voting on the amendment and Mr. Moranjkić. I'm not pulling out of anything. I just have the next situation here. I've been trying to be on the floor of the Rules of Procedure the whole time. We have a situation that amendments can be renewed by the beginning of the Parliament's session itself. Here and if this paper hadn't been in any vague document that you got on the benches. There wouldn't be any problem. I wouldn't consider it at all. You had to get this document all of them. You have to have this document. You have a document on you. Muhamed Moranjkić is an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Please give professional services, then what's the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15895	Given that, you see, I am withdrawing all amendments and telling this Parliament that I will never act constructively in it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15896	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. He gave up the amendment. Mr. Vinko Zorić, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15897	I answer for the word. I've called before, you haven't registered, but it doesn't matter. I think Mr. Moranjkić is quite right. Because I see some colleagues 64 are funny when anyone else submits an amendment and here they want to say something. I allow others to say stupid things, so let me, too, if they're nonsense. I think I'm going to bring one serious thing out here that can't happen in this House. I, in effect, filed my one single amendment on December 22nd. So, when we decided that we were going to have a session today and I wasn't invited to the committee yesterday. I wasn't invited yesterday to the committee and the man has every right and he wasn't invited and now we're wondering where your amendments are. Yesterday, when the amendments were discussed, Mr. Moranjkić was not present. Niko one asked why. If Ruža hadn't told me, I wouldn't have known that yesterday was a commission and I think this law and the whole environment around this law was confusing, nothing. And we laugh, or I didn't, you laugh at fellow Moranjkić, because man is telling the truth. And he's right. And we still want to make it here I don't know what kind of thing, because he doesn't know the drill, man doesn't have to know at all that it was a commission. Because no one called him, and he has to be invited to the commission, if he's a proposing amendment. I wasn't invited and if I had submitted the amendment first, probably for the same reasons, but, here, you have finished my amendment and that there are still a hundred votes you would have finished it, because the intentions are clear. Citizens from the south who are heating up on the vine oil, they don't need to be warmed up, they need to be cold, especially thanks to representatives who changed their minds from yesterday to today. I don't think that's right, but what do we do? I also thank the Council of Ministers for passing such a law. I thought at least Amendment VI with V and VI would be adopted, because they assure me, here's Lagumdžijin, give up. If Amendment VI had been accepted, however, it would have been fine, but we are going one way. Everyone's gonna get their turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15898	I thank Mr. Zorić. Please, nice. Dear colleagues, let's move on. So, I didn't accidentally insist on Mr. Moranjkić's amendments, because I got that document here and I see it. You don't have it with you, and don't just declare it responsible for that. Parliament's services are responsible, why they did not share the document. I was convinced that he was shared with you and then I asked for clarification for this document. Mr. Moranjkić has given up the amendment. We're now going to vote on the law. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15899	...trying to clarify. Namely, when it comes to amendments V and VI. We supported both V and VI, but unfortunately we only adopted five, which says that the excise is coming back, etc. If we had adopted the amendment that you proposed, it would absolutely be deleted from the duty of excise duty and would have made total confusion. That's the problem, Mr. Zorić. I am very sorry that V and VI have not been adopted, and we have voted for V and VI, but in the adopted V, we have already caused a problem that we have adopted this amendment of yours, because we have made it possible for them to return.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15900	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. We're in the voting phase. Look out, don't, please. There is no debate in the voting phase, according to the Rules of Procedure. I call on the House to prepare for a vote on the law, with amendments adopted, those adopted by the Commission and those adopted today by the House. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parlmentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 30 votes in favour, without a vote against, with 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority of 21 Federations, 9 RS, passed the Act on Excises of BiH. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Ad.3. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes and property You have received a report from our commission. The Commission has given its support to all these contracts. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's to give consent to the ratification of this agreement? Prepare to vote. Vote now. ... The Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, mostly with 28 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority gave consent to the ratification of this contract under a). We're going under 3.b. Is there anyone who can talk? There isn't. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, against none, abstention 1. Federation 22, RS 9. There's a sufficient entity majority and a general majority. I agree that we also agreed to ratify the BiH-Montenegro Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation against income and property taxes. Let's go under c) Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić. So we have s. 3c. It is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15901	Well, here, I have this agreement and it's written here, and if it's inappropriate that in the documents that we get here, it's fixed with a pen, especially if this was copied, so I don't know if this was fixed by someone who copied it, or if it was corrected by an authorised supplier from the Council of Ministers. Namely, it says here that the document was signed on 21st, even here it says it's in Croatian, but it's in 2001, and then it's been crossed and written in 1996 by some 66 pens. I'm a little suspicious of the authenticity of this, and I'd like the Council of Ministers to correct this, if it's not urgent for the ratification of this agreement, that next time we get to the right date and that's the real one I don't know. But the agreement isn't signed at all. Even that page I doubt.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15902	Okay. Thank you very much. Who wants to talk any further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15903	I'd just like to do a stenogram. So, since that's what I was talking about, when we were discussing the agenda. So I want to say that the SDS Club will be against and the agreement under c) and the agreement under d), because it really remains unclear why since '96. By 2004 no Council of Ministers council meeting had given the agreement for ratification. So we're going to be against both c) and sub d.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15904	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15905	Chairman, I'm just going to remind you that just for reasons of need, perhaps an additional explanation, I've asked for it to be prolonged until we get information on why it just came into procedure. I'm repeating my proposal again now, and if you haven't put it on the agenda for the vote, it's going to go a long way for the next time. Not to put ourselves in a position to possibly refuse ratification, and I don't think there's any need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15906	So, like this, we have two suggestions. We have a proposal, actually one proposal we have for Mr Zorić and Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, to take this off the agenda today and ask for answers to these questions, which these two MPs have asked. I'll put that proposal to the vote. So let's take this off the agenda of both points, so point c) and point d. If this proposal passes, that way we will end this agenda, if it does not pass, then we will declare both points of the agenda. I put this proposal together, I said Mr Zorić's proposal, although he refers to only one point and Mrs Hadžiahmetović, he refers to both points, and then the proposal of these two MPs. Prepare to vote. We're voting on this proposal. Vote now. 29 for, 4 against and 1 abstention. 23 Federation, 6 RS. Accepted this proposal. Point 3c has been removed. and 3.d. with this request to the Council of Ministers, described in their discussions by MPs Vinko Zorić and Azra Hadžiahmetović. We have a point e. 67 Point (e) of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons Who Would Like to Speak? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. Vote now. I find that unanimously with 33 votes in favour, without against and 1 abstention, we have given sufficient entity majority consent to ratify the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons. Point 3.f) Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Vote now. 32 for, 3 against. No abstentions. Enough entity majority, 24 Federation, 8 RS. We also agreed on point f), which is the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of a framework programme for financial co-operation. Point 3.g.) Mr. Momčilo Novaković is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15907	Since we of the SDS Club voted against this agreement, I am obliged to explain why we will also vote on the next dispute. Namely, there is no government of BiH. There is a Council of BiH Ministers and the agreement should say so. So it's not a questionable content of the agreement, but what it says is that it is a dispute between the BiH government and the Government of the Republic of Hungary. It is a dispute between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Hungary.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15908	I thank Mr. Novaković. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15909	I will not challenge anyone to vote for or against this ratification, but since it is the life issue of the city of Tuzla, I would ask Mr. Novaković to understand, and I know that it is not the government but the minister's. Therefore, for one simple reason to show the will to have one loan that we have been chasing for over four years. Therefore, I would only suggest that it be corrected, the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers stands.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15910	That's understood, these are things that are not at all controversial. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15911	I don't understand your finding as chairman that these are things that are not controversial. Does this mean that in this agreement, instead of the BiH government, the BiH Council of Ministers is now writing. Whether, when it is in the Official Messenger, the ratification of the agreement will be written by the Council of Ministers of BiH, given that we have the possibility in Article 109(2), therefore, we have the possibility to change the agreement to amendments, which are in agreement with the language and spirit of relevant contracts. So, where they won't. Does that mean anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15912	So we give agreement to Mr Novaković on the agreement and in the letter in which we give consent, we will write that we have agreed that it is the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, between the Council of Ministers of BiH, as a guarantor. Well, that's how it's going to be written in the act, and that's why I said that the undisputed government doesn't have to. Speaking of which, the Council of Ministers says the BiH Council of Ministers is doing the tasks of the BiH government. Therefore, for me, it is nothing at issue and it is not disputed in this agreement, but, if you insist, I suggest that we give, since this is a very important issue, I agree with Mr Bešlagić and we all agree, that we give consent to ratification, and that we write a letter with this agreement who will ratify it in the end, that, therefore, instead of the BiH Government, the Council of Ministers of BiH. Mr. Vinko Zorić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15913	The HDZ Club will support the ratification of this agreement, because we know what water means to the Tuzlan region and worse I don't know which municipalities are involved, not only Tuzla, it doesn't matter, but I'm sorry that the MPs don't know what it means to warm up also to a much larger region.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15914	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're moving on to a plea. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 35 votes in favour, with a sufficient entity majority, without votes against and without abstention, gave consent to the ratification of the agreement on credit and guarantee between the BiH Council of Ministers, as a guarantee of the Federation of BiH government as a sub-guarantee and the Public Communal Enterprise of the Vodavod and the sewerage of Tuzla, as lender and Hungarian export to the bank. With this letter, therefore, it is the Council of Ministers of BiH. Ad.4. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Export of Weapons and Military Equipment, the College suggests that Mrs Sead Palavrić, Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Vinko Zorić enter the commission. This is a proposal from the College. Mr. Novaković is asking for a word. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15915	I would beg not to be on this committee, with the intent of being on a joint committee against all amendments, which have been passed on to this law and, indeed, I could question the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15916	Suggest someone else instead of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15917	Here, Mr. Mišić will be for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15918	So, College, we respect Mr. Novaković's position. The proposed college is Mrs Palavrić, Mr Nenad Mišić and Mr Vinko Zorić. If there's no one else, I'm closing the argument. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 29 votes to and 1 against, 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority has chosen this commission. Passing point five of the agenda. Ad.5. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Transport of Products and Services and the Act on the Excises of BiH to the People, or is currently under way, I do not have information or should be held after this session, but in any case in the course of today's day and it is possible for the People's House to adopt laws, waiting, to adopt laws in different texts, we must have a prepared commission to not be convened twice to the end of this working floor, but only once. We have decided that if this text alignment committee is needed, the secretaries will monitor the home whether the texts are identical or different texts, we have decided to propose to you the next commission. Mr. Hazim Felić, member, I apologize to Mrs. Fatima Leho, member of this commission, no, no, Fatima you are a member of this commission, so we are at the College, then Ms. Ljiljana Milićević and Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15919	...to that conclusion that the Council of Ministers offers us amendments to the law by 31 January. I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15920	Fatima, this is a proposal from the College. It's another thing. Are you giving up?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15921	I give up. Because I am to my conclusion that we adopted on the committee. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15922	That's not the reason for Fatima, but since we respected it already at one club, then the definitive proposal of the College is. Mr. Hazim Felić, Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević and Mr. Filip Andrić, is he there? Because we need a man to work on the commission now. So, Hazim Felić, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Filip Andrić. I'm putting a motion to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, without prejudice, with five abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we chose this commission. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed the first part of today's session. We're about to take a 60-minute break. So, the clock of time, during that time the House of Nations will work and, if the House of Peoples finishes, so will this commission. You'll be here at half past six. Please make sure we haven't done anything unless you're all here at half past six. Nothing has been done today, because we need to make a statement, when different texts on the Joint Commission report are being made, so that these laws are adopted and agreed on the work of the 50th session, when Budget is on the agenda. I'll see you at half past six. Please, I urge members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to stay here in the O.R. with the president, commissions have something to do. I'll see you at half past six. [[PAUZA]] Here's some 30 minutes late compared to the time we were planning, right to tell you, I assumed we wouldn't be able to do that time break we gave, get into a situation to get back to work. We followed a session of the House of Peoples. The House of People's sitting on this item of the agenda, which interests us, so the Excise Act is over. So, they made a statement about the law. The Joint Committee is currently working, and I invited you here in the O.R. to tell you that the Joint Committee is working and that we need to wait for more, I don't know for a while. As long as it takes on the commission itself, I hope it'll be brief. I'd like you to be here, not to step back and inform your colleagues from your clubs that they also come here and we're waiting for that commission report. I hope we finish everything in about 30 minutes, complete business. Therefore, I pray for your patience. We're just in a situation like this. I'm sorry we're in a situation like this, but what can we do? So please be here, so we don't walk away. That's it, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this break took a lot longer than I could have predicted. Here you are about to share this second report regarding the Excise Act. You have received a report on the alignment of the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act and in accordance with our agreement, we are moving to the sixth practical item of the agenda of today's session under 71 Ad.6. a) The Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act, as you have seen, has reached agreement, 12 amendments have been adopted in relation to the original text. So there's a commission's consent. Does anyone want to talk? The sales tax on goods and services, the first one, does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We're voting on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 25 votes in favour, without votes against, 7 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Commission's Report on the text of the Law on Transport of Products and Services, thereby adopting this law in the final text. We move to the sixth point under b) that is, b) the Commission report on the alignment of the text of the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the report has just been shared with you. The Joint Commission has reached agreement, adopted 11 amendments and a proposal for these conclusions, of course they are an integral part of the commission's report. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15924	Milićević is listed here that... the rapporteur indicated that she was, whether to bring us into this report, so I would after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15925	Someone's got a phone on, I'm asking you to turn off your phone. Mrs Milićević has been designated rapporteur for the debate at the session of this commission. If, of course, he wants to talk, he has a chance. Do you want to speak to Mrs Milićević? Here you go, Mrs. Milićević, let Mr. Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15926	So, gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here we have now received a report on the alignment of the text of the Excise Act. The Commission met in full and after the debate, it concluded that otherwise, since the laws 72 were adopted in different readings, that dom remained with the commission's report, which differed in three amendments to our commission's report. They have supported their committee in their parliament. So we had a difference in these three amendments with our commission with them plus the amendments we adopted here at the House today. By considering this issue, and looking at the meaning of their vision and ours, we have come to the conclusion that we have agreed on these 11 amendments, with a similar debate being held at both homes and I would like to say that, therefore, both at home on this committee, the committee responsible, on this Joint Commission of both homes agreed that the same problem was treated on both home amendments and were trying to solve the same thing that was problematic. And so, I want to underline here the amendments that we adopted here today at the session are not in line with that home. They've been denied, but I ask you to accept and support here the conclusion that we have therefore strengthened now with the opinion of both homes. The two conclusions state that the requirements of the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation are to be made, at the latest by 31 January 2005, to extend the subject of taxation in accordance with the discussions and proposals of MPs and delegates presented at meetings of committees and homes, with a specific reference to the issue treated by amendments tabled by MPs and delegates. A stenogram of committees and homes and investment amendments will be sent to the Council of Ministers and the Management Board. That's the first conclusion. And the second conclusion is that unless the conclusion under number 1 is realized, the competent commissions of the homes will jointly make a proposal for a law on amendments to the Excise Act and refer it to the parliamentary procedure. A unanimous consensus has been reached on this. I can only say this is the report I'm giving you to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15927	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Martin Rguž has his word. Let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15928	Here's Mrs. Milićević actually took it, and I signed up for the debate now through this report, most of what I wanted to say. So, I would particularly like to update this joint conclusion by the Commission on the fact that all amendments that were in play today have been considered since 31 January 2005 and that a proposal for amending and supplementing the law is drawn up and thus takes an active position of Parliament in these important reforms. And I think this is a sufficient framework for us to support this joint report. This is how today we affirmed the role of Parliament through both the Excise Act and the Budget Law. So we opened up the possibility that we could contribute to the quality of those 73 laws and honor the deadlines. And I think we should finish today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15929	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15930	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, this yesterday and today must have given us some result ahead of us. I would like to conclude with regret that in the first report that is already behind us, which was adopted, everything that has been accepted in the House of Peoples and nothing that has been accepted in this House has been accepted. Those famous computers that were barely in the commission yesterday agreed, which today were all acceptances they were expelled because 15 people from the House of Nations considered differently. With this today, with this report for the other one, the thing still... In fact, not only has everything and one amendment that we have adopted here today been rejected by most of the votes, so all and one, but even that amendment that we had on the commission yesterday had the majority and that was the consensus here that we at least had it coming. So that's to be determined. On this basis, it is concluded that here Mr Raguž is affirmed not in fact the role of Parliament but even less of this home than that the role of the Joint Commission is affirmed. What Parliament has adopted here today unanimously, I repeat unanimously adopted, such a text of the law, so unanimously, or perhaps someone has been abstentioned, I apologize, but it was no one against, all that we have accepted has been cast out. Just for the record. I think this is the easiest time said will show that they are possible and harsh words but there is no need. Today behind this pay phone there, a lot of harsh words have been said so there's no need for us to unnecessarily increase them, but this is the least we can say that puts into question the relationship between our people who go ahead of this House to meet with the representatives of another home, completely disabling what's being said here. So, to conclude, Mr. Chairman, you want this present-day report from the commission that you will most likely accept, and we are deeply against, we believe that this is a direct issue of principles that we all advocated in the debate on additional value tax, through a series of laws that we have in this year concerning the protection of domestic production, so what we adopt here is the betrayal of these principles, this is an invitation to the import lobby to rule this country, this is an invitation. I can, Mr. Chairman, you're on, or I don't mind when you're talking without a microphone. So this is a direct call to the import lobby that there's no need to invest in any production in BiH and our people who have money without having to invest in production, to invest in trade and to be all representatives of some people out there who make something, here they sell us. 74 Therefore, Mr President, I must find with bitterness that all the goals that we have spoken about today, which we thought we had received Parliament's support, or that at least a reasonable number of people in Parliament were for that. If this report had been thrown under the table, I would like to conclude that this conclusion that stands here comes out of the commission's mandate, and especially that the committee responsible, therefore, this Joint Committee, is making a proposal to amend and supplement the law next to... The Council of Ministers, and that's the bad side, what's with the dose I'm not going to say to cynicism, although it may look like, but with a dose of satisfaction, there's still no crisis of power here. Your coalition is working very well. Here you have finely agreed, six representatives, two by two from each ruling party and I congratulate you on that. It's nice to go out this year with a conclusion that there's no crisis between you two. It is indeed a great pleasure, I congratulate you all on these reforms and on your embrace that will entertain the people who in this country want to produce and be the owners of their country and not to be renters of foreigners. I thank you, and I just want to remind you once again that we will not give up our proposals and our principles and I want you to come before us with this law if you do not come back to me again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-29-1.u15931	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the Commission's report, which is part of this conclusion, i.e. these conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 20 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, 15 from the Federation, 5 from the RS, adopted the Joint Commission's report on the text of the Excise Act in BiH, and thus the Law on Excises in BiH in the text as presented to you in this joint report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you. We have, have adopted the conclusions of these and I will sign them to know on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, please just sit down, be patient a little longer, I have one very important information for you. I'd like to ask you to really wait. This is how I conclude the 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and I am informing you of respected colleagues and colleagues, that the 50th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House will be held on 12 January 2005 according to the College's decision. At this session, we will discuss this, because of the budget, the budget of the BiH institutions and the Law on the implementation of the budget and agendas already being prepared by the House's Professional Service. The session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of our House on the Law on Budgetary and Budgetary Implementation has already been held today and the Commission has given constitutional and legal basis for these laws. The Finance and Budget Commission is scheduled to be 75 for the purpose of the budget law and the Budget Implementation Act on 10 January 2005. So there is room for new amendments 48 hours from 10 to 12. The amendments may be made to the Finance and Budget Committee from now on until the end of the Finance and Budget Committee meeting. I had a need to inform you of these several decisions of the College that we made during the session today, right after the debate on the Budget and the Budgetary Law. I thank you once again, I'll see you if Bog gives you on January 12, 2005. Session completed at 8:10 p.m.
