ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3860	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 35th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session. Of these four from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and four from the Serb people. Delegate Hasan Čengić justified the absence, and the decision by High Representative Mr Nada Radović was removed from the post of delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so we expect that, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska submits a new delegate to the House of Peoples. For today's 35th session, I propose the next agenda. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 34th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment – Second reading, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH (IGA), 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Taxation Act on the Transport of Products and Services by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 6. Conclusion on negotiations on the border and traffic of people and goods between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro – delegate Tomislav Limov proposes the conclusion, 7. The authentic interpretation of Article 29(2). Law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I would like to inform you that we have removed from the agenda the point of the proposal for a single rule of law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a large number of new objections and suggestions, as well as recommendations from the Office of High 2 representatives to review the legal status of this document once again, to respect these provisions. So this is the conclusion of the Kolegijum that we suggest that we take this point off the agenda. So before crossing, actually, are there any proposals for amendments and additions to this agenda? I don't see any reports. So, I find that a unanimous agenda has been adopted and before we move to the agenda points, for the decision of the High Representative, we must choose a new member for the Joint Commission to agree on the text of the proposal for a tax law on additional VAT, so instead of the delegates of Nada Radović. I ask the Serbian delegates' club to propose a new member of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3861	I suggest Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3862	Thank you. So, now we're going to say whether we support this proposal by the Serbian delegates' club. You can vote. I agree that Mr Radovanović's proposal, namely the Serbian delegates' club, was unanimously accepted to appoint Boško Šiljegović as the Commission in common with regard to the Tax Act on additional value. So we move to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Until the beginning of this session we have not received an answer to any delegate questions and I am asking you if there are any new delegate questions? Mr Tomislav Limov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3863	Thank you, Mr. President, and the Vice President, my dear colleagues, and I will take this opportunity and ask a few questions motivated above all by certain information from the documents we adopted at our last session. The issues were addressed to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. 3 1. How many, when and where in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area, robbery thefts were carried out during 2004, i.e. the withdrawal of money on the occasion of transport or in the facilities of banks, insurance companies, bookshops and other entities. 2. Which banks, insurance companies, bookshops and other legal entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina took the money in 2004 in what quantities by the robbers. 3. What security companies provided, or accompanied, the transport of money on the occasion of robbery abductions. 4. How much money has been paid back and how many criminals, the money robbers, have been prosecuted so far, and what penalties have been imposed on them by the courts and 5. Is and what responsibility has so far been established for the employees of the entities whose money has been stolen by the robbers and whether and in what way the responsibility of the workers who were security guards should have prevented the kidnappers? Thank you very much. I don't think I should explain the reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3864	I thank my colleague Limov. Any new delegate questions? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We move to the next point, which is Ad2. I'm opening a debate from the 34th session of the House of Peoples. Who's answering for a word? Mr. brkati, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3865	I welcome you all and I have an observation here, I don't know how it came to be that I am, it says here delegate Osman Brka is satisfied with the answer, and I seem to have explained to me last time why I'm not satisfied with the answer, so this needs to be fixed here that I'm not satisfied with the answer I got to the delegate's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3866	I really don't know. There's a stenogram, but we're not going to get into it right now, and we're going to take it, and we're going to respect this statement from my colleague, Brk, and it's going to be in the record from this session. 4 Are there any other objections? There isn't. So we're pleading on the record. You can vote. I understand the record was unanimously adopted. We're going to the third item of the agenda, and that's A.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the import and export of arms and military equipment We have it today in a second reading where the debate is held and votes on the law. The House of Representatives adopted the Law in both the first and second readings in the proposed text at their 46th session. At its 33rd session, the people adopted this law in their first reading with the conclusion that the committee responsible in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are making a new report. At the same time, it was possible for delegates to submit amendments. You've received a new report from the committee responsible. The Commission has adopted seven amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Niko one checked in. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. You can vote. I find that the law has been passed unanimously. sobzir the fact that the Law in our House of Representatives is adopted in various texts, we should appoint members for the Joint Commission for Text Coordination. I'm asking the club chiefs to make suggestions. Mr. Šiljegović, you will be kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3867	The club proposes a member of this commission, Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3868	Thank you. I'd like a colleague of Spajić's, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3869	5 [[removed from microphone-not understood]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3870	I thank my colleague Spajić. Mr. Genjac, you're proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3871	Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3872	We have three suggestions to thank. So, Mr. Radovanović, Mr. Zrna and Mr. Pamuk. I'm opening a vote. The unanimity of our coordination committee was adopted. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (IGA) you have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted a report at their 48th session, held on December 22, 2004, so yesterday. Thank you. We unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Taxation Act on the Transport of Products and Services by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure are under discussion, therefore, whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 48th session. As part of this agenda, the Kolegijum proposes the following conclusions. 1. The deadlines for considering the Proposal for a Tax on Transport of Products and Services and the Proposal of Excise Laws in the House of Peoples are shortened as follows. The committee in charge will complete the commission phase as proposed by the law on 28 December 2004 and submit a report to Dom. 6 The House will be scheduled for 29 December 2004 to discuss the proposals for these laws. Amendments to the draft law, which shall be submitted under Article 89. Rules of Procedure, may be brought, submitted until the beginning of the House session. 3. The committee in charge is tasked with co-ordinating its activities with the representative's committee of the House, and the Secretary of the House is tasked with coordinating meetings of the Home, which would be held on the same day. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3874	I thank the president, the guests, the journalists, I didn't mean to pick up, but I just answered to say what most people already know. We agreed on all these terms, so it would be good to provide us with a copy of this conclusion. So, the written conclusions. So it's very important that we have it written on dates, because we've co-ordinated these two colleagues, so both at home and agreed to do it that way. And, yet, here I am, when this topic is said that I am not satisfied and that I am actually a little bit angry and disappointed that sometimes the BiH Office of the High Representative is misinformed by the BiH institutions. Because we have received one letter from the High Representative, where Parliament is asked to do this job. So, to adopt these two laws in one, here, you see how short the deadline and Parliament has committed itself to doing so. So, the College of Both Homes co-ordinated, and that's okay. However, it is not right for the facts set out in the letter, which is addressed to the High Representative, where the Parliamentary Assembly is said to be responsible for such short deadlines, and that is not true. So we only got these laws about ten days ago and it was absolutely impossible to do so before. Because they weren't with us. The truth is, at least that's what the documents say, these documents have passed the Council of Ministers a long time ago. Where were they at that time since, after the Council of Ministers' meeting until they were admitted to our secretariat, the Secretariat of the House of Peoples, or the House of Representatives? That's the question. And here I want to protest on the fact that someone cites false facts as facts and then writes a letter with these false facts to the high representative. Therefore, it is misinformed and the responsibility of another institution or official, an institution official, is transferred to the Parlamentary Assembly. I don't think it's a good way, good practice, otherwise it's not a good practice for someone to use not the truth to accuse someone else, and especially to inform the institution of a high representative about these non-trues and then accuse the Parlametary Assembly of unworked work, which, objectively, was not possible to do, because I said it wasn't in the time envisaged, etc. I think we should draw a conclusion on this matter to the Council of Ministers that we do not come to such a position in the future, especially if one of the members or signatories of the letter from the Council of Ministers is not acting in this way, but rather to uphold the law, the Constitution and 7 other regulations and to use, especially the facts of communication with anyone, and especially the Office of the High Representative. Why the high representative especially because he has very high powers and sometimes because of bad false information he can have, neither do I, nor the foundation, but then again based on not the truth, some other lies and act differently. Here, in that direction, we may draw a conclusion, ultimately to the Council of Ministers, that the future does not act in this way, but in a manner prescribed by law, by the Constitution, and by our rules of procedure when it comes to parliamentary procedure for the adoption of laws. Here, I am also pleased with the willingness of our home, but also our colleagues in the House of Representatives, to really do this important job by the deadline, to pass these laws, that they can be applied from 1.1.2005, which is very important for later introduction of VAT and everything else. Here, I've had so much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3875	I thank my colleague Jukić. I'll do the same one grade before I give my word to Mr. Limov. That it is unacceptable that in a situation where we are trying and struggling to take responsibility as politicians into our own words, representatives of the executive authority are calling on the High Representative to impose these laws, as decidently standing in this letter. That is, indeed, unacceptable. I'd like to ask Mr. Jukić. Now try to formulate this conclusion, the suggestion of a conclusion, I give my word to my colleague Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3876	Well, of course, Mr. President, I want to join these attitudes and yours and Mr. Jukić, and I want to remind this home, first of all, of some things that I have mentioned in the joint session. In the Council of Ministers drawers, the responsible Council of Ministers' men have been standing by for more than ten months now, in connection with the obligation and need to ratify international documents. In the joint session, I have indicated some of these obligations, and it is evident that we now have to stand up to this conclusion to protect both this House and Parliament's clumsiness as a whole. So, over two months or two months after the Council of Ministers said this, it was kept in the drawer and, it just seems to me 3.12. delivered to Parliament and, here from 3.12. we are ready and, in this case, practically 28. or 29. to finish this job. So, the good will of the envoys and MPs clearly exists, but simply if the executive authority behaves like this, then, indeed, we must seek her responsibility. Because the problem is that, above all, the Council of Ministers did not find the mechanisms to build a procedure, which will make it clear who is responsible for 8 obstructions and delays in the reform segment, and it is clear that this is one of the laws, which we really need to adopt by 1.1 next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3877	I thank my colleague Limov. Anyone else want to talk on this agenda? If not, I suggest we make a statement first, so this procedure, and then we'll talk about the proposal for a conclusion. So who's to be considered by Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. We unanimously adopted this procedure and now Mr. Jukić will read it. I suggest we now make clear the conclusions he has proposed to the Kolegijum. So, this is about the deadlines that I said in my opening statement, according to this agenda point. If you think it's necessary, I can read them again, or the secretary can read them. So it's about speedy work on this bill. I'm opening a vote. Who's to conclude, the proposal to conclude the Kolegijum? You can vote. Thank you. The proposed conclusions were unanimously adopted by the Kolegijum and I will ask Mr Jukić to read the text of the conclusion he is proposing now. Here's a colleague of Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3878	Well, here, I'd read what I wrote for these 2-3 minutes. Therefore, the House of People rejects any responsibility of the People's House for not adopting the Law on Excises and the Law on Transport, Transport, Products and Services, and in particular we consider it inappropriate, not an appropriate way to communicate certain members of the Council of Ministers with the OHR's office, through a letter in which OHR is not duly informed and misinformed and the responsibility for delaying the adoption of these laws, transferred to the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Peoples. Here, this would be content, and I would like, here's the People's House, so if we were to empower here, I don't know either, here, me and someone else, to write the text, so there's no such linguistic indetermination or, possibly, misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3879	I would also like to conclude that this House is seeking a written statement from the Council of Ministers regarding this failure. This isn't even the first time, and this is going to happen a lot. The Council of Ministers' relationship with Parliament, in my opinion, is, in fact, not 9 satisfying and I think it is high time we let the Council of Ministers know that it must have a more serious and quality relationship with the House at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3880	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. I would, if you don't mind, since I don't see any more reports I'd like to make a statement. We see the essence of the conclusion, and the ultimate definition of this conclusion is that the College is in charge. Who is for the conclusion proposed by his colleague Jukić? You can vote. Thank you. Mr. Jukić's proposal for a conclusion was unanimously adopted. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. The conclusion regarding the negotiations on the borders and traffic of people and goods between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, delegate Tomislav Limov, received a proposal for the conclusion of the Lim delegates. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3881	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, at last session Mr. Limov had an answer to the delegate's question on this. I'm at the beginning, I haven't been able to send everything away, because I've been keeping some notes. I don't think I can do it right now. I want Mr. Limov to just confirm to me what I heard, but I'm not sure if that's the case. When you commented that you were not satisfied with the answer received on this issue, it seems to me that you said, but I say, again, I am not sure here for your speaker, that in the Janje area, did I understand, part of BiH territory is occupied or usurped by the military and police forces of the Republic of Serbia. Is that so or not, I just want to do it one more time, and I didn't want to open it, because you announced that this question would come back on the agenda, so I'd just ask if I understood that correctly and if that's the case?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3882	Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3883	I have expressed the need for the official institutions to answer this question and indicated information related to Janju and some other areas, which are controversial and it is no secret. So, we are asking this conclusion that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers tell us what was actually done, how long did it come and where were the problems? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3884	I thank my colleague Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3885	Since I'm from Semberia, from Bijeljina, I know Janju well, I know that area not every inch of that territory, and I just want to distract you here, you probably weren't there and you don't know that terrain. Drina from Janje to mouth in the Sava River is often changing its course. She used to be more of a left. Now the Drina flow has changed in a direction, more on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and there is one part of the territory on the left side of the river Drina, which is grant and catastrian to the Republic of Serbia and, however, I would like to say to this occasion here, certainly and finally, that there is no officer on the left side of the Republic of Serbia, which is on the left side of the Drina River, and there is absolutely no policeman, not one soldier, or anything from the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the left bank of the Drina in that area, regardless of whether that part belongs to the Republic of Serbia or in that respect. I'd just like to explain it here, and you'll probably get an answer through this conclusion of yours, and, well, then we'll be able to run the controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3886	Thank you, colleague Pajić. I think the conclusion is well emulsed and I don't really see any reason not to adopt a conclusion and not get the information that we're looking for. So I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I'm opening a vote. Who's to conclude Mr. Lim, the proposal for a conclusion? I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion, proposed by a colleague of Limov. We move to the 7th point, or last one at today's session. Ad.7. The authentic interpretation of Article 29(2). The Law on Free Zones in BiH requires an authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Free Zones Act to the House of Representatives was delivered by the Crin Administration. The authentic interpretation was adopted by the House of Representatives and delivered to the House of Peoples for adoption. In order for the authentic interpretation to be full, it must be adopted by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. Since the authentic interpretation was not regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, it was not necessary to be discussed by the competent commission, but discussed at the House. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a vote. Who's for this authentic interpretation text here? I find that we unanimously adopted authentic interpretation. 11 Here are my colleagues, Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I, on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates, on behalf of all fellow Catholic religious colleagues in this house, in the BiH Parliament, in BiH, on behalf of the Club and in my personal name, give my sincerest congratulations on Christmas holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3888	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3889	On behalf of all members of the Bosniak Club and I give my sincere congratulations to my colleagues from the Croatian Club, who expect their most significant religious holiday, with, of course, the most beautiful wishes and to be happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3890	Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3891	Here, visa-vi of our holidays, Croatian Club of Representatives invites you to a drink at the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-23-0.u3892	I thank my colleagues Spajić, but now I, as the chairman of the House of Peoples, will congratulate on the name of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, and with these Kolegijum and my personal name, not only of fellow Catholic religion, but of all BiH citizens, who celebrate Christmas Day tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, I wish them a lot of happiness, health and success both in social and personal life, and here before I conclude the session, I want to tell you that the next session will be, this is already agreed at the College on December 29th at 12 o'clock in Hall I in the building of joint institutions. Thank you and good luck. The seat's finished at 11:55.
