ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3613	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, 33rd is attended by 14 delegates. Of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Delegate, Osman Brka is justifiably absent. For today's 33rd session, I propose the following updated agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Record of the 32nd session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Payments Act on a single account and income distribution, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, 6. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the BiH Customs Policy Act, 7. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Framework Law on Deposits by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Emergency concessions Act, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment – First Reading, 10. Proposal for a law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH (IGA) – first reading, 11. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Internal Affairs, 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Declaration of Anti-doping in Sports 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Development Credit Agreement (EMSAC) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – IDA, 2 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Veterinary Cooperation, 16. Giving consent to ratification of the Development Loan Agreement (Other Employment Support Project) between BiH and the International Development Association, 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Development Credit Agreement and the International Development Association (IDA) – Second Social Adjustment Credit, 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on road transport of passengers and cargo, 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Danube River Protection and Sustainable Use Convention (Convention on the Protection of the Danube River). This is the last proposed item of the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Will anyone be discussing, any suggestions for changes and additions? Since I can't see, no one checked in, I find that in accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, that the proposed agenda was adopted. Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to delegate questions, before this session, received the following colleagues, Mustafa Pamuk, Osman Brka, Velimir Jukić, Vinko Radovanović and two responses received from counterpart Tomislav Limov. Are the delegates satisfied with the answer they received?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3614	I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3615	A kolega Pamuk declared to be satisfied with the answers. I'd like to ask other colleagues, so Mr. Jukić, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3616	Mr. President, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the International Community, Mr. Journalists and guests, I have received an answer to my parliamentary question. It reads the number of employees and the national structure of employees and especially journalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina's public TV services 3 BH T1, RTRS, RTTV BiH, or radio broadcasters in BiH, which are financed from the TV tax. I thank the Council of Ministers for delivering this response to me and I would only briefly comment on this response, the response data. It is evident that a large disproportionate proportion of the representation of the constituent peoples is present in the total number, especially in the press staff. And I would remind all of us here together, especially those responsible from these houses, that the constitutional obligation is to take care of it and it is under the Constitution to take care of the national representation of employees and hence, especially the press staff. And I think that people who don't hold this thing accountable here first of all, I mean the management and management of these houses, and I would like to appeal to them at this time that they also adhere to the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of this state. Because it's very important to achieve that balance required here and not be at the expense of anyone. And I wouldn't want it to be understood that me and my question and asking for a request, that it's a vaccination, that it should be counted every day. No, but this is proof that only in time for this matter to be discussed with arguments and then given the task of being at the height of their responsibilities and tasks and to do what is their legal and constitutional obligation. I hope so, too, and the main purpose of my question was precisely that, for another time, after half a year, a year, when a question like this is asked again, that there will be no place for my satisfaction and not only my own, but all those who see from this data that it is not what it is here, in accordance with the laws of this country and the Constitution of this country. Here, thank you for your attention, but also the Council of Ministers, for giving me a correct and complete answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3617	I thank my colleague Jukić. Before I give my word to Mr Radovanović, I would just like to conclude that we will have the statement of colleague Osman Brk, whether he is satisfied with the answer to his delegate question, at the next session, given his justified absence from today's session. Comrade Radovanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3618	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the answers to my questions are actually the expected answers. I've more set this up to point to a certain phenomenon and than I would, the answers are expected. However, I would like to remind myself that before these questions, I have asked two questions that I have not received an answer even though all business deadlines have passed, it has already been a few months. So I would take this opportunity to warn the College about it and see what's going on with these questions and whether we go further along the Rules of Procedure in the agenda, or if I get an answer to those parliamentary questions? 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3619	You're not happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3620	As for this answer, I'm pleased. But answers to questions previously asked
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3621	It will be established in the record as you said. A fellow Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3622	Your Honor, I have received answers to my envoy's questions only now. Given the content of the answer I've received, I'm asking you to allow me next time to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3623	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3624	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3625	So, counterpart Limov will also plead at the next session. New delegate questions, I beg you if you have them, please. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3626	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, esteemed guests, I have one question and I would like a written answer. These days, a member of the presidency, Mr Čović, said it would be difficult to prove BiH's lawsuit before the International Court of Justice against Serbia-Montenegro. The statement, of course, has caused great public interest and I think it's left unsaid. To be a clear question, and to make it quite clear what it is, I ask the Bureau member to answer the following questions. What are his interferences, that this is hard to prove, that we get an answer and that as a parliament we see what can be done? And second question, second question, what did Mr. Čović, as a member of the presidency, do to remove the interference to prove the case? That's one question. And the second question, the Foreign Trade Ministry, would I ask, what happens to the price of international transport permits, and why are there claims in the public that these permits can be obtained in trades according to fabulous sums? 5 I would ask the Ministry to provide a detailed response to Parliament's credentials within the framework of my question and the answer to the question, within the envisaged business period, to what is raining and whether the process of issuing permits is under the control of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3627	I thank my fellow Genjac. In writing, you'll deliver it. Next is a colleague of Limov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3628	Thank you, Mr. President. I use the opportunity to ask one question to the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency in this second planned release, in connection with this item of the agenda, welcome all those present and I want to take advantage of the occasion. In fact, the motive for this question is the fact that we're related to the problem I'm about to present, we set a precise deadline. The deadline expired seven and a half months ago and our conclusion, the conclusion of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was not implemented in this respect or realised. My question is, for what reasons has the 12th session of the People's House of Parliament held today on 30 September 2004, requiring the House of Peoples of BiH and the Council of Ministers to install a reform solution in BiH in the field of security policy and delivery to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for adoption in the first quarter of 2004? Personally, I'd like to get a document instead of an answer to confirm that the job, even if it's too late, was done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3629	I thank Mr. Limov. Boško Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the 20th session held on 6 April 2004, the next conclusion was reached. To be asked by the Council of Ministers to report on the balance of staff according to the national principle. We've unanimously concluded it here. By 1.06.2004, all nine ministries and 22 other bodies of the Council of Ministers, which we, as the Club of Serbian Delegates, received in response, provided the required indicators. At the 25th meeting of the House of Peoples of 29.06.2004, the Club of Serbian Delegates made comments on the inaccuracy of the data that applied among other things, that one number of state officials had expired and that they were in the tables, that the incorrect information was related to the BiH Archives, because we had six cases of being resolved by the Director, and in the Election Commission, the National Service Agency, and the Institute of Standards and Measurement, the Office of Law, meaning we had very precisely stated in the Statistics Agency, the Office of Veterinary, the Intelligence Agency was not covered by this report. There was no record of the Agency for Labour and Employment. There was no innovation of data from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. And then we asked that the councilors be deleted from the table, because they are not civil servants. So, a series of objections were made to the inaccuracy of the data, and since 29.06.2004, the Serbian Delegates Club has not received any response from the Council of Ministers to these remarks. I am using the opportunity, relating to this matter, especially I am interested in the Agency for the State's Service, which is responsible for monitoring national balance, and in its own environment the situation that was last shown to us, there were 13 total employees, 8 Bošnjak, 2 Hrvat and 2 Srbin. The latest findings are that there are no employees of Srbin at the State Service Agency. I'm looking for a response and the latest data on national representation at the National Service Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3631	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Velimir Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3632	Here, I'll ask you a question. As a prelude to this question of mine, it will only be a reminder of the murder of the priest Kazimir the višeticuk (?(?) in Bosnia and Herzegovina a few days ago. And I'd like to say, too, in this case, first of all, to confess to the RS authorities, so to the MUP that they quickly discovered this perpetrator, this murder of a bandit. It's said but it's out of kindness. I would also remind all of us of a large number of attacks on church dignitaries, priests, religious objects, and especially the fact that some attacks are repeated on the same objects several times. Attacks on church facilities, Catholic in Tuzlan County. I don't know if the perpetrators were found and properly punished? I also don't know if, have the other perpetrators of these attacks been found and punished? And so I refer the question to the competent authorities of the RS, the Federation of BiH and BiH what authorities are doing to increase the general security and prevention of such attacks on church and religious dignitaries and religious facilities in BiH, and do they have any concrete plan, to bring this as little as possible or completely prevent it? Especially if we have knowledge that it's organized attacks, and I'm not sure they're not organized. I think this question should be dealt with significantly. I, of course, condemn the attacks on all religious dignitaries and religious objects, but here I am, pointing out what happened in Bosnia Gradišca the last days, and otherwise the attack on Cardinal Puljić, the truth of verbal but question, one day verbal, another day as others etc. So, that all those in charge of security in this country, 7 deal with this issue and that, through this new issue, inform the Parliamentary Assembly or the House of Peoples about what is being done or planned to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3633	I thank my colleague Jukić. I don't see any sign-up for any new delegate issues. So I'm concluding this agenda point. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. I'm opening a debate with the 32nd session of the House of People. There are no reports. I'm opening a vote on the record. Now you can vote. I understand the record from last session was unanimously adopted. Thank you. I'm going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments You have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, we must vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes. If he wants the president of the commission? It's not necessary. So, I'm opening a vote. Now you can vote, I apologize. I find that the committee's report was unanimously adopted. Fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Payments Act on a single account and income distribution You also received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, we should vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes. You can vote now, I'm sorry. It's okay, so he accepted, unanimously, 14 all present voted in favour of the commission's adopted report. 8 Fifth Point of the Ad.5 agenda. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions has been given to you by the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be made known, i.e. to vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes. I'm opening a vote. The commission's report was unanimously adopted. The sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Customs Policy Act BiH you have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. I'm opening a vote. The report and these commissions were unanimously adopted. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Framework Law on Deposits under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure Let me remind you, in accordance with Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, that the law is being considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed the law by emergency procedure at their 46th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Who is it for to consider the law under Rule 100 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure? Open vote. 13 for, 1 abstention, I konstatovati that, we will consider this law under Rule 100 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Does the promoter want to? Here, counterpart Jukić thinks the name of the need, so I would ask you to speak to the House of Peoples. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3634	I welcome all present. It is likely, here I am Zorka Pudar, an adviser in the cabinet of Deputy Minister, Mr. Grubešić. The Law, the Framework Law on Stocks, entered into force in the sense that its entry is unquestionable, but it has a provision in the Law on Application, means a different date of application from the date of entry into force. Perhaps one of you was present here when there was an inauguration of this law. It was done and implemented through the USAID project. Since it was delayed in realisation, it means in the application of this law, then there was a need to make changes to this law, in terms of deadlines. So in Article 2(1), where these terms have previously been acquired, the words – before the entry into force of this law, are replaced by the words – before the application of this law is started, as Article 39 of the Law states that this law should enter into force at the end of the period of three months from the date of its entry into force, cannot be applied before the end of the period of three months from the date of its entry into force. So they had to create preconditions to make this, to make this law work, to get into effect. It's recently, I think the 1st of this month, that the stock register started. It has not yet been given a certain intensity, but previously acquired the right, meaning that the right acquired before the entry into force of this law cannot be applied, since here I would even say the flour wrong interpretation in the sense that the entry into force is not equal to the entry into force and its application. There is a difference in this 90-day deadline, since it is late, so the proposal is to extend it by another 30 days. So, as for Article 36, this 90-day period is replaced by words or numbers and words – 210 days. So, 30 more days. I draw your attention that this law is a major step towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is one newspaper. No country in the environment has this law and we are in one of what I would say is a progressive situation, so we can also boast that we are at least in something first, as far as our environment is concerned. And since this registries register is already in place, so I would ask that this hasty procedure of the Council of Ministers has also been addressed and made a proposal, that without any doubt, because I think there is nothing unclear here in terms of just applying it, the difference in the application of entry into force and the application of the law. Since we were late, there are no distractions in this text as proposed and in the amendments to the law, not to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3635	Thank you. Are you done? Yes, it is. No debates have been reported. 10 So now we will vote on the law. Who's up for adoption? I'm opening a vote. 14 for, therefore unanimously passed this law. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, Add.8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure therefore, in accordance with Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide on a request for the law to be considered under this Article, after the debate, the amendments shall not be submitted, which shall be in accordance with point 3 of Article 100. The House of Representatives passed this law by emergency procedure at the 46th session. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Who is to be considered by an emergency procedure in accordance with Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure? I'm opening a vote. We have one abstention, 12 for, someone didn't vote. It's okay, we can find out, then, that this law is going to be considered by Article 100. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. So we're voting on the law. Who's for the adoption of this law? I'm opening a vote. I find that this law has been passed unanimously. Dake, we all read the argument that was very convincing, drawn up by the promoter. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's the ninth Ad.9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the import and export of arms and military equipment, first reading This is the first reading of the law, which is in accordance with Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings at the 46th session in the proposed text. I'm opening the debate. Therefore, the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment. 11 A fellow Halid Genjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3636	We respect koelga, we have before us a law which is this, one of the very important laws, because it makes amendments and additions to the Law on the Import and Export of Weapons and Military Equipment in such a way as to establish a regime of control over dual-use goods, which prevents their abuse and does not allow illicit military and terrorist purposes. These changes, harmonize the area, BiH's legislation with EU legislation in the area of establishing a double-use control regime. This is one of the conditions for BiH's accession to the EU as well as NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. This law, of course, is part of... it's one of the first laws that was on the Joint Defence Commission, although there is a very clear question that it could have been on the Foreign Trade Commission, for instance. Because it is a coastal area concerning imports - exports. I think that after all this and after the commission and after a few questions have been answered. I would use it if there was a representative of the motion here to clarify some of the questions in the context of this, this first reading. In this Proposal for an Amendment Act, Article 13(a) of the definitions, under point (a) states that it produces dual uses, including software and technology, and within the meaning of this Act, includes products that can be used for both civil and military purposes. Includes all goods which can be used and which are not limited for both exclusive purposes and any other purpose of assistance, in any way from the manufacture of chemical, biological, rocket and nuclear weapons, because other nuclear, explosive devices listed in the list of products and dual-use technologies, in the further text of the product list. And then under b) says -- the ministry publishes and updates the official translation of the list of products in "The Official Messenger of BiH". It's not clear to me here, the official translation into which language, from which language, and for what purpose. So, it just says the Ministry publishes, updates the side translation of the list of products in the Official Messenger. Which language, which language, translation, and for what purpose. That's one question. There are two or three minor issues, but I think the previous article 13a) points to a question that I think simply requires an answer and clarification and I think it is very questionable whether this formulation can remain. For the purposes of implementing the regime for the control of imports, exports and transit of weapons, military equipment and dual-use goods, and in accordance with Articles 6, 7 and 13b, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall publish and update the list of countries under the Security, UN Security, OSS, and other sensitive areas, including but not limited to destinations which are in the regional conflict or which are linked to international terrorism. Watch out here the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been given to publish, update the list of countries listed by the criteria, which are partly accurate, clear, and in part 12 very vague, very inaccurate and subject to very subjective interpretation. So other sensitive areas, all areas can be sensitive, depending on how anyone looks at it. The second thing, this one, including but also to a limiting formulation that thanks to the creeping out of subjective viewing, can mean anything, can mean nothing, etc. I think, since foreign policy is also, and this, I think that this issue would have to be either the Presidency or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to deal with this issue and to participate in determining and identifying these updated lists of countries under the embargo. So I think it seems necessary to me, and I would ask if there is a Council of Ministers representative to answer if there may be any information, some element that is not available to us and we cannot judge on the basis of the non-available elements of the information. So on these two questions, I'd like to ask the answer in this debate, and I'll get involved later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3637	I thank my fellow Genjac. We have a representative from the Council of Ministers, so please step outside for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3639	I will try to answer on behalf of a task force that has made changes and additions to this law. I'm a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And as clarifications, I would first point out that at that time the existing Export Act – imports of weapons and military equipment, also made according to European standards and its lack of capacity was the only thing that controls exports – imports of weapons so-called. Military lists or...arms. Here we have placed double-use products in amendments and analoguely according to the existing law, this is the answer to the first question, we have put an official translation of the list of products in the Official Messenger of BiH. In addition to the legislative details that are very similar, this is, in fact, copying, as well as other countries in the region, and the European Regulation, as a supplement or adhesion, a list of dual-use products, which needs to be controlled to meet not only European but also global standards. That's according to UN Resolution 1540. And accordingly, we listed a list of products to be translated and published. Our European legislation does not restrict that we, instead of translation, can also make our national list, but which must not be narrower than this list of products. Since we are this one, we have decided as well as in weapons and military equipment, to use the European list, we have only decided, the official translation of the list in the Official Messenger. It may be technical mannacity that we may have had to say that, we will do it in the languages of the people and of the people, but we thought it would be understood because each document must be in three official languages of BiH. So he translates from English, with a regulatory 1334/2000 and he becomes a national list. It's an attempt to answer the first question. 13 As far as the second question is concerned, I would also remind you that the Council of Ministers has adopted EU rules of conduct in the export of weapons, where they are even broader and more detailed as to what sensitive areas, in which human rights are being violated, in which there is an armed conflict, so if you are not sure that the goods will end up in the country of origin, but perhaps they will cross over to the neighbouring country, or where they are armed, and to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, means an increase rather than a reduction, all these are rules that must be made by the Council of Ministers, or by a competent institution when they issue a permit to follow. And since, as we have said, licensing is done for a double purpose as well as for a weapon, it means certain institutions have their previous consent. One of the consent is to be obtained, it is the Foreign Ministry which, with its previous consent, gives us the knowledge that the export of weapons to that country is in line with the interests of the foreign policy of BiH, will not be violated by the sanctions of the UN, the EU and the OSC and in the scale of it to facilitate this, our exporters to know from which areas they can freely export, we have accordingly made only an additional commitment to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to publish a list of such countries where they could not be exported, so that our exporters may in that case know where they can safely export. And by the way, every permit is checked in particular and every permit will be next to the list for each country and besides, it will have to pass the verification, the previous consent of the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence. I don't know, if you have anything else, I would, I'm Dragiša Mekić, assistant minister of foreign trade and economic relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3640	Thank you. Mr. Hasan Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3641	I am pleased that Mr. Mekić has tried to answer these questions, but if you will allow me, I will be on the trail of what Dr. Genjac has already said, I will be very clear. If Mr. Mekić is looking at the text here that we have as a text supplement of the law, amending and supplementing the law, then there is no mention of either the European Commission or the European list, therefore in the text. If we imagine this moment that we should vote, we will vote for something that is absolutely unclear where it's being translated, what is being translated. Since this is a very serious question, I think it should be clear in the text itself, from the text that it is, that it is. Secondly, and as far as I understand it, it's hard for us to agree on it like this orally, so to speak, without certain interventions. Secondly, the answer to this second question has actually confirmed that there is no answer. If you have the definition of what you have here in this article, so the Council of Ministers is said to publish the list, watch out, capture the list of therefore other sensitive areas. Please, BiH has now established diplomatic relations with over 100 countries in the world. No Niko alive knows what tomorrow is the fate of any of these countries, conflict, 14 non-conflicts, close to conflict, etc. Whether one country is in conflict, whether or not it is, in this category of other sensitive areas, gentlemen, it cannot be determined by one official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's a matter of state foreign policy. According to this formulation, it literally sits one clerk there, reads some newspapers and writes. On the other hand, I ask you one more thing, if we accept European Community standards, technical standards, for example. Which are very high-quality, which we go after and who we seek, that's one thing. However, to accept the European Community's policy, we can do so when we are a full member. Until then, we have to run our own policy. This policy, the foreign policy of this country is governed by the Presidency under the Constitution, and is implemented by the Council of Ministers and within it by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So he can't, now he's got one of those important things to discuss, decide, determine and put on the list some kind of clerk. Don't be mad. I have no idea who he is today, so there's a foreign ministry clerk on behalf of the BiH presidency. The question arises whether we are in that case, whether we are functioning in accordance with the Constitution, and constitutional prerogatives or not. Even if we agree that this should technically be published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is unquestionable for me, so it really needs to be published, updated in a technical sense, there must be a prior procedure, and that means from...the competent body involved in the conduct of foreign policy. And if you add the question of double use to this right now, gentlemen, we're talking about civil production, civil technologies, civil research, about equipment for civilian use, which may be used for something else. You'll be in a situation tomorrow that a huge number of our productions today, I don't know Poliem from Tuzla or any other Soda Soda, tomorrow may not be able to sell their technology transfer contract to another country because some official at the Foreign Ministry will write that the country belongs to those sensitive areas. So we're formally talking about one thing and we're actually talking about something else. Something very serious, very important. For this reason, in my opinion, the formulations mentioned here are very incorrect because if we were to stay and say that the Council of Ministers will publish a list of countries following the decision of the UN or the OSC, these are very precise things. Let's just stick around here, and it's pretty clear. If we want, we can even give the European Commission a list and that's quite clear. But as soon as we move further towards this definition of other sensitive areas that cover but not this one, they don't limit themselves to then it's still a very serious issue, one very serious policy, very serious studies, very serious analyses, very serious decisions that can seriously cost this country, its economy, its knowledge, its scientists, its researchers, its companies. So I have the impression that these definitions here are imprecise despite the need, therefore, absolutely necessary, to specify all these issues and to really protect both economic operators and the scientific research institution and the state of BiH from ever coming under attack and sanctions by any of those mentioned, under the stress of sanctions because the double use has turned into the forbidden one. It seems to me that here it would be necessary for certain corrections, these texts to specify these views in order not to get us into a situation of full volunteerism or even possibly counter-constitutional action by certain state institutions. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3642	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3643	So I also thank Mr. Mekića for his answers and with his fence that it is an attempt to answer and I think the answer itself contains in one part, a reserve in terms of perhaps inaccuracy of formulations and usefulness to perhaps formulate it. It seems to me that the way out of this situation is possible, since the Joint Commission has considered and since it is done, this, and at the House of Representatives, the law has been passed, I think it would be useful to have the law in the first reading today, to consider and adopt the law in the first reading, and perhaps to allow a period of time for the amendment to be extended, to try to correct these irregularities. So I'm holding that would be useful. On that question, on the specific circumstances, if it can be appreciated, how much can be respected in the new circumstances, so when we have a situation, of course, this one, would contribute to the precision of the text and nothing would be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3644	I thank my fellow Genjac. I don't think this proposal is on the trail of business solutions because here is the Home Secretary, Mr Tomić, therefore, Article 79, point 2 in case it is necessary to extend the deadline, the commission will deprive the previous approval of the House College for a period longer than the previous one, and we in this case do not have a commission's request. So we move forward with the procedure. Is anyone else answering for a word as a debater, according to this agenda point? We don't have any reports. I will now put this law to the vote in the first reading. Dake, Export Act – importing weapons and military equipment, first reading. I'm opening a vote. 12 for, 2 abstentions. So I find that this law was adopted in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm opening a vote. Who's up for a second reading debate, now? So 12 for, 1 abstention. I realize we have, that we're going to have a discussion in another reading. Therefore, the debate on amendments is being held, the law is being voted, since we have no amendments, we have a report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BH level. An amendment like I said it wasn't. 16 Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3645	You see, this is the Honorable Chairman, I understand that we have a procedure, but I also know that we are the House that decides on procedures, and I don't think it's always instructions to insist on the procedure, especially since we are the ones who need to decide on the procedure. So we're not law enforcement officers, we're still deciding about the law. I must say that I hold that we still have enough space to reach a conclusion as the House, to give, to extend the commission phase, given that such a situation is not defined by the current Rules of Procedure, since the Rules of Procedure have not yet precisely addressed all the issues of the action of the Joint Committees. The Joint Commission is in charge here, and we have one situation where, objectively, I repeat, we are objectively coming into the situation so that we can ask the question whether this law is in accordance with constitutional competences, because it can be assumed that Article 13e is dealing with issues that are within the competence of the BiH Presidency, which is the conduct of foreign policy. So, in this sense, since we passed the law in our first reading, I think it would be a good idea to consider the possibility, to adopt a conclusion that opens up a space for amendment action, let's say for an eight-day period, and then if there is an amendment to make a statement. If it doesn't, it doesn't. If so, let's make a statement and see how. It will likely be necessary to carry out specific consultations with the proposing representatives who participated in the process, and thus avoid any kind of further problematization of things. And now, if colleagues allow, I am convinced that they have all read, but still let me just read to you part of Article 13b), in this bill that says among other things – if an exporter is an importer or an intermediary, there is reason to suspect that the products which are not listed in the list of products are or may be intended as a whole or part for any purpose for which paragraph 5 applies, are obliged to provide information to the Ministry for the purpose of updating the data. Look, this definition is very controversial. If you look at the whole of this law, you can get out of the conclusion that whoever doesn't do this, that he did the deed, and tomorrow it's going to be to commit a crime. So if he didn't suspect it, if he didn't budge and report it, this is exactly the same as in Orwell's '84, exactly what it was at the time of Stalinism. Gentlemen, I can't be neutral about these things. So there are state authorities who are hired to deal with law enforcement. But someone who's doing business, someone who's doing business with civil work, so it's not even directed enough, not everyone has to have a sense of these double, double-use issues, if he didn't suspect it, and that suspicion hasn't been reported to the Ministry,...has committed a crime. I believe that these formulations cannot even stand in relation to our positive legislation. Whether something else should have been said, that's another question, but it seems to me that 17 of these formulas has not been said anything else, and that's the ugliest thing that's said. So, we're basically this way, one state law prescribes a commitment, so don't tell me what. I think he's doubting, so the suspicion is being reported. And if we have all this in mind, it seems to me that it wouldn't be bad, to see the possibility, to leave space for the amendments, to talk first and foremost to the representatives of the proposings, to hear their motives, to see how clear it is, to be very clear, in line with European standards, and what the European Commission, the European Community, has done, to try to bring it together, to see if we have had experience with previous laws, is there even some translation here, you know? I mean, we had a last-time debate about that registrator, so we got assurances from the competent institutions that were preparing the law, that it was – named, mistranslated in – deployed. And to appoint a judge, and to assign a judge to work, it's not that it's incompatible, but it has nothing to do with each other, it's completely different. So, I really don't know what the motive here is right now, I don't know what the basics are, I don't know if this translation is correct or not. And what we could get after that could be really catastrophic. I repeat, this is not a question of the production of weapons and military equipment, this is the use and work with what could be a double. And since there are engineers and doctors and others here, let me just remind you of Article 13a) which says that, among other things, technology involves specific information needed for development, etc. So the forbidden technology that then binds itself to diagrams, formulas, manuals. Watch out, diagrams, formulas, manuals, formulas are hostile activity. Anti-legal activity. What if someone uses a physical formula tomorrow and even a man comes up with a formula? Well then that formula can be used, and you well know that life is not one-way at all, that the use of nuclear weapons is one terrible thing, and that electricity production by that principle is one very useful thing for humanity. So, I'm just saying that here some things I'm afraid are at the translation, or you have another detail. Look, please, in Article 13a), it refers to Official Messenger Nos 21/98 and 10/92 of the BiH Customs Policy Act. Today, at the previous point, we adopted the harmonised text of the Customs Policy Act. A meeting of the House of Representatives is scheduled on 3 December, which is due to adopt the Commission's Report on Harmonisation. From that moment on, we will if Bog gives us a new Customs Policy Act. And here, we quote the old Customs Policy Act. According to the new Customs Policy Act, point (d) of the import means any entry of the dual-use product. This entry of every product, therefore, is contrary to the provisions now here today, here a law adopted, in which entry, every entry into the country is not an import, because it is exactly something that is defined there in case of transit, in case of additional processing or in case of storage, it is not imports in terms of customs debt and customs obligations at all. So, very serious dichotomy, disagreements with existing legislation are in this law, that is, this proposal. So I think it would be very difficult if we agreed to decide today without considering the possibility of fixing certain things. Whether they're a matter of translation or something, I don't know it, but in my opinion here, I can't go under technical repairs at this point. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3646	I thank Mr. Čengić. I appreciate this, this concern and his discussion about this law, and although here I want to remind you that this law entered the parliamentary procedure in the seventh month. But with respect to all that Mr. Čengić said, I will now give a 10 minute break at which the College will meet and try to find a solution based on these proposals by Mr. Čengić. So break 10 minutes. Here's a fellow Genjac just before your break, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3647	There is a solution, of course, depending on home. It seems to me that there are elements to try and try according to new facts, because the new fact is in accordance with the new Customs Policy Act. There's a point of Article 90(3) of our Rules of Procedure, which the House says may ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new facts within 15 days and that's what I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3648	I call on the heads of the clubs, therefore, to attend this brief meeting of the College. Break 10 minutes. There have been conditions to continue working at today's session, although you warned me that Mr Dragiša Mekić had come forward before I gave a break, I do not think there is a need to hear the promoter again, after having reached the Kolegijum, found a way out or found a solution to what we talked about before the break. [[PAUZA]] And here is the Kolegijum, therefore, proposing a conclusion in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure to ask the House to form a new report based on new facts, and the new fact is that today we adopted the Customs Policy Act, so within 15 days, the Commission makes a new report, and here I propose that we make a statement about it. I think that's why we're doing it. So, with the possibility of submitting new amendments. I thank the Honorable President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, I'm opening a vote on the conclusion. A unanimous conclusion has been adopted. 19 And we move on to the next item of the agenda, that's the tenth, A.d. 10. Proposal for a law establishing the BiH IGA Export Credit Agency, we have it in our first reading So this is the first reading of the law under Article 90. There is a debate on the necessity, the principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 46th session with four amendments. I want to tell you that today's session is attended by Mr. Dirk Rajnerman, World Bank Director for BiH, and he has addressed the Koligujum, with a desire to address the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Kolegijum has unanimously agreed to this, that Mr. Rajnerman should address us, and I ask him to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3649	Mr. Chairman, members of this House, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today. And I am very glad that this House has an interest in promoting exports to BiH. As early as 1999, the World Bank provided assistance to BiH in a loan established by the Export Credit Agency, short-term IGA. The amount was EUR 30 million along with the funds for BiH's emergency recovery. It's very indeed the right time you're dealing with this issue today, since the loan closes at the end of this year. I am very pleased to say that IGA today is organized as a very effective agency that works on commercial grounds. Although she is a very small and relatively new agency, she is already working effectively. To date, she has given loans to more than 60 companies in BiH, has 20 clients in the factoring area, has helped 100 customers buy loan insurance and has been supported by $120m worth of the Export Treaty. At this time, this is of particular importance when we know how large the current account deficit is in BiH and especially how large the trade deficit is. The institution, as it develops for years, can become one of the most important institutions for exporting itself and for promoting exports to BiH. In our view of the text adopted by the Representative Council, it is satisfactory for us and an effective institution can be established. I just want to point out that, in our view, it's very important that IGA be excluded from the State Service Act. And maybe the reason we were looking for it was unknown, so now we're going to explain it briefly. You may know about the Union, the Baren Union, and that is the union of all export companies we know so far. And no export insurance agency in any country falls under the State Service Act. All personnel in these agencies have salaries and compensation in accordance with the banking sector. So it is very important to leave this structure in BiH to attract the best and the best people in the institution. If they did change that, they would put in a very unfavourable position for the BiH company compared to their competition in the environment. So we're talking about an important element of competitiveness for this country and for the economy and economy of this country. I assure you that the draft of this law and the institutions to be done are in line with European 20 standards. And to adopt this law today, you will set up a very modern agency that will work for BiH's well-being and future. My colleague Lojd Ečkong, who is an expert in this area and who has worked in many countries on this issue, and I am willing to answer your questions if there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3650	I thank Mr. Rajnerman. And so, the debate is open, I am opening a debate on this agenda point, first reading of the BiH Export Credit Agency Act. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3651	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, I think it's very important that we came to the moment when we discuss this law even though I think we're late. I think this law should have been discussed a lot earlier for a lot of reasons. We know well what the situation of BiH is when it comes to the trade deficit on our damage, so a foreign trade deficit. We know the fact that in BiH loans are still very expensive, burdened with a series of realities, political risks and others, and we know that our economy that is trying to recover after the decomposition is not able to provide itself with sufficient resources to produce, especially to export. When it comes to exports, we all know that export transactions need to be provided with guarantees, for which they are often expensive or in some other cases banks simply value their risk, are not ready to enter the business. For this reason, I believe that the work that IGA has done so far has been very useful, very important and has been of great benefit to a significant number of exporting companies, which are precisely those companies that I believe must and will bear the future development of BiH and should be helped. The people who work at the agency have mastered their jobs. It is no ordinary business, so it is one specific business, part of the banking business all related to international relations, banking and relations with insurance houses etc. a job that needs to be mastered. Their experience is precious, their knowledge is precious, and nothing should be done that would encourage any of them not to keep doing their job. On the other hand, I personally believe that we could and should have done more as a Parliamentary Assembly and as a Council of Ministers at BiH level to strengthen the IGA. We had to provide more funding in their founding capital and their funds in order to make their credibility even more favourable, so that they could provide their credibility with counter-guarantee, i.e., reconfiguration for jobs that cover both higher amounts and bigger jobs, which would give a new dimension to the BH economy, a new dimension to individual exporters' positions and allow greater production, greater employment, finally establishing better relations in exports and imports, i.e. reducing deficits. For all the reasons I have stated, I believe that the principles on which this law rests are important and I believe that 21 should do everything possible to make possible misunderstandings and solutions that may challenge the development of this agency as important institutions within BiH and BiH outside, remove and obtain a law that would be of quality, which would allow this agency to operate on modern principles and above all that would allow the agency to even exist and operate. Given the deadline that ends this year, if we don't pass the law by then, then we will question the existence of IGE. I am taking this opportunity to plebe with my colleagues to consider the possibility that our decisions today in relation to this law will be as much like decisions as possible or in accordance with the decisions made by the House of Representatives, as far as possible in order to avoid the harmonisation and bring the alignment to the minimum possible measure in order to get this law into force before the end of this year and allow IGI to continue to work and continue to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3652	Thank you. Would you like some, Mr. Radović? Mr. Radović has given up. So, I don't see anyone reported for further discussion in the first reading and have obtained conditions to put it to the vote. I'm opening a vote in my first reading, the IGI Act, now. I find that this law was unanimously passed in the first reading. And I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Who's in? I'm opening a vote. Unanimously, 14 for, was adopted to conduct the debate in another reading. So this reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission has accepted 6 amendments and we have new amendments submitted by counterpart Halid Genjac. So, we have Mr. Halid Genjac's first amendment, if there's any need to read this, you've got everyone in front of you, well here's some people who think there's no one there. Therefore, the Agency is an independent non-depositary and non-profit legal person with full powers and operates in accordance with the liquidity and business insurance principles without loss. It's the first amendment of fellow Genjac. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko checked in. So we're voting on Mr. Genjac's first amendment. I'm opening a vote. So, we're voting on the amendment of fellow Genjac. Now you can vote. 13 for, 1 abstention, I find that the amendment has passed, that is, been adopted. 22 Amendment II to Mr. Genjac. Article 4(4) is amended and reads – the provisions of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions do not apply to persons employed by the Agency, employment and promotion of the professional career of employees in the Export Credit Agency are based on public competition and professional capacity in accordance with the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Agency Jobs. The structure of the agency's employees reflects the national structure of the BiH population, according to the latest census. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Genjac, election promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3653	Dear colleagues allow two, three general notes, and then specifically about the amendment. You are all aware of how important the law and what significant area this area regulates, and I am pleased with the fact that we have received from the management of the agency shown indicators, tables, growth of credit funds, lending, factoring, insurance, etc. and, of course, balanced access to and regions in BiH and by entities. Of course management worked hard before the adoption of the law and the examination of the law at the commission stage, talked to the club presidents, making an argument, explaining certain good solutions, the favourable solutions and after the session of our commission that was responsible for considering this law, this, management of this agency talked to me as well. From talks with representatives, director and employee of the agency, I found the elements that I felt there were misunderstandings somewhere in the interpretation of certain words in the law, such as in this previous amendment profitability, interpreted as making profits and actually thought that the agency was not creating losses, as we in the house are trying to do what is worthwhile, and not what is invaluable, and there were certain misunderstandings. Now, I've been trying to get this first amendment to say what it is and to get rid of those misunderstandings. But I think a lot of this different approach has raised the question of whether the agency's employees are subject to the State Employment Service Act or not. And I think that there is most of this, shared opinion, different opinions and commissions have also chosen to adopt an amendment that says that employees of the agency are not subject to the law on the state employment agency. It seems to me that it would be better to remain as it was in the original text of the law and I am not, of course, sovereign in this field, nor can we be sovereign in this profession, of course we are not even able to understand ourselves fantastically, but from those elements that I received from talks with the management of the agency, I think that there is a standstill in the fact that employment in this agency is performed and the treatment of employees, in the way it is carried out in similar agencies. First, as we have heard, it is the same approach in all countries in the region, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia, Croatia, everywhere these credit rating agencies are, it is not the law on civil servants. 23 The other thing was, uh, there was an argument why to exempt someone from this, from the Employment Act when we passed that law. I think, of course, it's worth the attention, but it has logic and has a resonance exception because the Banking Agency, the Deposit Insurance Agency, the Central Bank, part of the DGS, are already excluded for all clear and very specific reasons. This is about one credit financial institution, which has very specific jobs, and an independent state agency in view of this type of activity, must be taken into account in order to ensure the selection of expert staff with experience in banking, insurance, accounting and finance sectors with an abnormally necessary knowledge of language, modern information systems, etc. Given that, therefore, I am of the opinion that there are places and there is a reason to leave this solution and when I saw a solution in the House of Representatives, where certain formulations from the State Agency, which relate to civil servants, took place, but they left that the Law on, is not the competent agency for hiring civil servants, I think they have found this solution happily and I have therefore made this combination that is almost identical to the solution in the House of Representatives and I have proposed that amendment. I mean, if we had some arguments and letters and this, and the thesis and the facts, I would pray that, having this all in mind, I plead that we go back to the original solution and that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3654	I thank this one, Dr. Genjac, and we know well on which ground he is sovereign. Mr. Limov answered for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3655	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I don't have to talk about this for long, but I'm going to say my opinion as soon as possible. Namely, this is not the first law where it is proposed to exempt these employees from the application of the State Service Act, or...I will only remind myself that we have done so in relation to a thousand employees in the OSI, so I personally accept the argument made by my colleague Genjac, but especially that part in his discussion in which Mr. Dirk Rajnerman took the lead in this direction. So, I personally tend to support this amendment and otherwise I think that I should make an effort that if it is possible to adopt a practical law that has already passed in the House of Representatives because from what I have seen, if we agree on this problem, this issue, it seems to me that the other things are easier to agree on so that in this dynamic it would still get enough time to whether, in any case, by the end of this year, and keeping in mind the specificity of the 12th month, to finish our work as expected. So I support this amendment and this commitment not to apply to these employees the State Administration Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3656	I thank Mr. Limov. 24 Dear Pamuk, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3657	I welcome you, I want to welcome everyone present and I want to emphasize the following. I debated very much in this law and as a person, as one of the chairmans of the House, I had the opportunity to talk to the director of the agency, I had a later chance to talk about this law and to do it well through the Commission administrative. Normally, I have my own opinion, I am a person who thinks that this agency is incredibly necessary and important for BiH, that this agency in the domain of foreign trade is called special businesses or specific foreign trade businesses and that the agency should be observed here in this regard. I thought, however, I disagree with the fact that the agency and the expertise of the people in the agency and the need for expertise, as people want to present here, should be fetishized. These are ordinary experts who know little more about international trade, international finance, normal insurance. However, nothing special and nothing special that could not be defined by the competition. I think it's enough for this Dom to say that this agency takes people to the competition, that the competition should be taxed on the personnel profile and that people should be accepted as stated by the agency in a contest to be accepted. I don't think there's any law to drill. We have a State Service Act that absolutely respects both the expertise and the national one, the national schedule and all the other schedules, but there's one job here, there's one situation here that worries people in the agency. Most likely those who think about aggression as well as those who think about it. I think this is about what people want to protect the income, that is, the personal income of people at the agency, and that's why we need to get out of the State Service Act, is it? However, I agree with the fact that it is necessary to allow professional people in a professional organisation and in a special organisation one treatment in the distribution of personal incomes, to be a little more free, to be suitable for environment institutions, bankers and people from similar activities. And it can be defined by one member of the law, but it doesn't have to be said that we won't, that we won't, that we won't apply the provisions of the State Service Act. I can't agree with that, and I won't agree. I have a letter that some of them had long before me, so they acted the way they did, and here it shows that it's true. I'm asking you to talk about expertise. What is the specific expertise he has to or should have someone who works at the agency? What's in insurance, what's in financial transactions, what's that in all these international communications that one man in two years can't really master? That's what I'd be interested in. The exception is connections and communications that need to be established and which man who comes to the agency has a good share served. I'm not for this to be fetishized, I'm not for these jobs and comparing and equating to the Central Bank's affairs because it's something different, absolutely different, and I'm going to argue to stay on the amendment proposed by the commission. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3658	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. Mr. Čengić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3659	I believe it would be necessary to conduct a long debate, especially if we heard the opinions of a respected colleague of Lim, the amendment is here, I'd only be brief. So, if it's a matter of being admitted, so transparently what they would say by competition, by my understanding, that transparency is also secured in the text of this member who was accepted in the House of Representatives. There's also talk of a public competition, it's also about national representation, which is forgivable but important element and everything else, it seems to me that there would be someone else not fetishizing but insisting on some principles that don't have to be quite so set up. On the other hand, the arguments that we have heard, above all from Mr. Rajnerman, which is the fact that there is therefore an association of such institutions, and that within that association there is no such agency for protection or for ensuring export guarantees, which would be, therefore, whose officials or employees would be elected by the state agency is a serious warning to themselves. We talk all the time about wanting certain international standards, above all European standards. So if that's the case, then, first of all, we're not making an exception on this one, but we've made a few exceptions important, to larger institutions, to institutions that have a larger number of employees. And on the other hand, this aspect is not meaningless. I think it would be good to respect that fact that if we want to communicate with the world, that our side of communication looks like that other side of communication, that it's simple to say so, it can speak in different languages. As for some professions or unprofessional, of course, someone with basic education and knowledge can learn additional skills and techniques, but objectively these are jobs that are not as common in countries that are greater than our country. These are jobs that require and know language, etc. So these particular additional capabilities and characteristics of employees are important for these types of jobs. In that sense, I believe it would be good to accept the amendment, or return this part of the law to the state it is in the House of Representatives, so as not to have a need for reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3660	Thank you for your discussion with my colleague, Čengić. There are no more reports, and so there are conditions to state which one is this, the second amendment of Mr. Genjac. So, I'm opening a vote. Who's in? Ten for, three abstentions, one against, past the amendment, the proposer could pay for the drink now. Amendment III to Mr. Genjac. Article 7 introduces Article 8 which reads - Immunity of the Agency from taxation, property, assets and profits of the Agency as its transactions, 26 are exempt from sales tax, on services from the Agency's activity and profit tax over a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of this law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3661	So let me just have one more elaborate to explain a little bit. Therefore, in the original text of the law, he was a member of the 8th, which stated that assets and assets of the Agency, as its transactions exempt from sales tax, from agency activity services, in VAT additional value tax brackets when profit tax was established, etc. The Commission adopted an amendment which deletes this whole Article 8. From what I've been talking to the management of this, the agencies have managed to compare the things and information that have been on the board as well, and I think the minister presented this on the commission, it is logical that part of this member is really deleted, because the VAT law also provides that this type of activity provides for the insurance of the monetary transaction of this type to be released from VAT. So, in the very law of Article 22, as many as 17. I'm supposed to get rid of this, and I don't think there's any need not to say it, whatever it is in the VAT Act, I think it's the right approach to apply it to this, whatever it is in the VAT Act. What's the most important issue in this area is the tax on the profits of this agency as well. The largest funds are in terms of taxes to this agency, paid on profit tax and in this way some, as I know 100 or 200 thousand marks per month, instead of being kept inside the crafts, to give credit guarantees, loans, and thus increasing that amount of money that can be credited, that profit tax was paid, taxed and taxed by some 100 or 200 thousand marks. In view of all this, this, this, otherwise, approach is in OECD countries to make such agencies, because they are non-profitable activities not to pay taxes. Given all of this, I have proposed an amendment to this, which states that the agency, assets and profits of the agency and its transactions are exempt from tax on services from the framework of activity and profit tax over a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force. There is also likely to be this relationship with the VAT Act and this question that it was settled in the VAT Act, that it should not be repeated here, I would, after the debate, if of course Dom agreed, ask for the possibility of recasting this amendment after the debate. So there's a possibility that this amendment can be made more quality than it's been suggested here, so I'd like to ask that possibility if it can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3662	I thank my fellow Genjac. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I will no longer provoke you, and since not this one, a fellow Genjac has come out with a proposal to rephrase and 27 has not been completed, we have not made a statement about the amendment, so here is the possibility of recasting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3663	...this amendment reshapes for the reasons I have stated,... The VAT is therefore only to say, the profit obtained by the agency has been exempt from the profit tax. And the total profit is directed into the reserve funds, and there are funds that talk about credit licences, about guarantee, etc. So the total profit is to be directed into the reserve funds. Just so it says. Therefore, the profit obtained by the agency was exempt from profit tax because a special law regulates the issue of profit tax. Let's just put it this way. So, the profit the agency makes, it's at the end of the year, it's tax-free, the total profit is directed into the fund's reserve. So please read Amendment III.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3664	I thank my fellow Genjac. Here comes Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3665	I'm just asking Mr. Genjac if I can? A nonprofit organization making a profit? Explain that to me, please. The other thing is I want to hear an explanation from here, Lord, in which country is such an agency of state? I hope these are still mixed societies with state capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3666	Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3667	I'm uncomfortable with the economists answering these questions, but obviously I do. The agency is said throughout the law, the activities of the agency have been described, in several members are very detailed and decadently described the activities of the agency. Among other things, a banal example, the service of a single loan is paid to the servicer of that credit, etc. And from these activities carried out by this agency itself, and it is a financial institution that serves to lend exports, aid exports, in all these activities that it carries out, which are very detailed in the law and is sufficient to read its activities and see where that income comes from, at the end of the year when the agency compares expenditure, expenses, wages and everything else, and when compared to what it has achieved, it remains a profit. Now, that profit, from the opportunity of the agency, that's not some base profit as much as I have information, that profit has been paid somewhere around a hundred thousand marks, and now it's proposed that this profit made by the agency, that tax on that profit doesn't pay 28.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3668	We talk all the time about wanting certain international standards, and above all European standards, well, if that's the case...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3669	It is not tax-paying, but tax-free, and this is aimed at strengthening the reserve funds, that it is the original intention of the Agency, why it is formed, even more and with that part of the funds it can support exporters. So that's the intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3670	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I give my word to Mr Kumalić, Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3671	I think the promoter's intent is really good. However, this case must be observed with several aspects. In our complex fiscal structure, profit taxes are in the jurisdiction of the entity exclusively. Secondly, this law has been very difficult. I, one of the MPs, think Čengić was saying he should, he waited two years in this text to come before you. So I'd like to ask the Proposer to give up this amendment, for the simple reason that the profit laws are on entities, now they've been made new with 10% and there are so many extenuating circumstances. If this agency reinvests, it will not pay taxes. But you don't, I mean, if there's a good lawyer here, you can't even make this amendment, you'd be anti-constitutional to bring it in. So, the laws of profit regulate entity laws and Brcko District, it's entity income and, secondly, it's in that law, it's so stimulating. We have, that law the most stimulative now in this environment. So if they reinvest, they won't pay taxes like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3672	Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3673	I'd ask the minister... Did you participate in the drafting of this bill?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3674	Good part. Not in the making, but... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3675	Are you here on behalf of the legislator? For the reason that in the bill of law, which came here, according to Article 8 the Agency is exempt from profit tax. That's what you sent. You should've thought about it, whether it was against the constitution before you delivered it here. In other words, it was also adopted at the House of Representatives. And I've followed logic, which is a common practice, and I'm trying to sanction that member to fix it, we're correcting it in a way that's best, and then the promoter tells me it's against the constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3676	Obviously, this amendment provoked a significant debate and I give my first word to Mr. Čengić, who answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3677	I would ask you to do something technically so that we can get the line right, since this replica button doesn't work on me at least. So it doesn't turn out that I'm having a debate, it's really a replica. So now there's been two replicas and I'm going to have to do both. When it comes to Mr. Pamuk's question. I, of course, don't consider myself an expert on this, but I'll say the following. It is known that profitable organizations can also make a loss. So it's nothing new. They are defined as profitable, commercial banks, stock companies, companies of commerce. So, what we call companies either for trade, for production, etc. They are by definition profitable. So they're founded to make a profit, but they can make a loss. And we watch these scenes happen every day. Even happens to some state-owned companies to make a loss. On the other hand, it is known that institutions established as non-profits, therefore, whose main business and task is not to make profits, but to carry out certain activities, for which or for which they charge certain services, is to obtain some revenue. For example. entity banking agencies. I'll be very open. I've been saying it, and in my time at the Federal Parliament, they have very high prices of their services and it has to be paid, there's no joke, because they're kind of the boss of every bank and no one dares pay what the Agency prescribes to pay as a fee for its service. These agencies definitely both operate under quotes positively. So at the end of the year, they make a profit. And if it's not their primary task to be profitable and make money, but because they're doing that job, they charge for it. They're making a profit. And here's all the talk, by my understanding, of that very point. So, it's not that IGA should be a profitable organisation, which operates to make profits, but it is the fact that by its business it can secure profits. Eh, here's the question. When at the end of the year, as they say, incomes and expenditures are reduced and if it turns out to have a certain positive business, so let it win, whether it's a hundred thousand, five hundred thousand or a million, then that profit should be taxed as a rule. What resources go into the budget. And, of course, through budget items spent. Here's the next attitude, and I think 30 is the essence of the whole story. IGA should have certain resources that can secure its funds, from the risk of all that it does. In my personal opinion, it's much more cross-cutting for society and for the state, that the funds that IGA should allocate as a tax on what it achieves as a profit, not in taxes, not in the budget, but in its funds, strengthens its funds and continues to do business. That's the whole point of the story. And with these big words of the type that this would be against the constitution, it is, indeed, amazing that a representative of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers of Finance, and the Council of Ministers sent the draft of this law, does not know that it already states in the law and that this position has been changed only on our commission, and that the Council of Ministers has proposed that there is no tax, taxation and that it has been adopted in the House of Representatives. I don't think we should put any emotion in here, but we should simply adopt the amendment to get the same text in both homes when it comes to this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3678	Thank you, Cola Jukić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3679	Here, I'll try for a while. What perhaps not all members of our home are aware of because of this law as it has come to our home procedure, in the first session, of the committee responsible, has been requested because of many objections, and especially because of the non-compliance between certain articles and their provisions that are not logical, because one is opposed to the other. Bad things are defined. When an article 2 is spoken, excuse me, is this article 2 when it comes to certain principles, in fact, whether they are principles or what, so to speak, some other definitions which, in my opinion, cannot be said to be principles. And this law, indeed, should respect certain principles, even in the good part and respect and stick to them and, however, they are not listed as principles. In that part of Article 3 which speaks of principles. Furthermore, we have requested an extension of the deadline on the commission, and that deadline has been extended to us by the Colleges of our House, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and certain amendments have been adopted, and in the adoption of these amendments, some amendments have been reformed on the Commission itself, which again says that this is a very specific issue, and it is indeed specific. And I see here some contradictions. Profitary non-profit. Excess, so you'd like to say, it's not logical for them to be both at the same time, so it's said in another way profitably said excess income, at the other expense, etc. I will also now only comment briefly on Mr. Genjac's amendments, because they are now, we are discussing them. The first amendment was adopted and it was just a slight clarification and a better formulation of what is already standing here and even for me is better and I voted for it. However, Amendment number III has not been agreed, in good part it is contrary to Amendment I. Why? First of all, when we talk about winning, we said it was nonprofit. Profit, 31 wins, is equal to just another word, etc. Or the extra income over expenditure is still the same as I understand it, so otherwise it is so that we can only play with the words what is and what isn't etc. Then here it's also said for five years, and later it would be done, etc. Again, I do not see that something significant is changing in the work of five years, especially given that so far this agency is doing quite solid, stable, we hope that even better, etc. So I think this should be brought into line with before, because this isn't a good formulation. Furthermore, also, when it comes to this surplus income over expenditure. I had an amendment that I gave up on the commission, and now I think it was good. When I spoke, I further added, that these funds are allocated to two funds to cover the risk of business and to increase capital, capital capital. I didn't say, I even talked about the ratio of 50 to 50, but it doesn't matter, then it's said that it's the responsibility of the board of directors, which is true again, but it doesn't exactly say so. But perhaps intervention could be made in this sense, in that part of the law, etc. So, let me conclude my speech about this law, which I have studied very well. I believe that this law has a good intention, has well-set objectives, however, a bad formula for achieving these good, realistic and real goals. However, as we hear it's been done for a long time, I don't doubt it and probably it wasn't easy to find the right way how this all together, these all specificities write that they are one coherent whole and that they are one normal part of our entire legal system in this country, I think we need to find some solution, which, however, will be realistic and acceptable, and I'm not sure it can be written like this, because I'm going to repeat about Amendment III it's opposite in the good part of what's already been said and accepted here, as a correction of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3680	I thank my colleague Jukić. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3681	In view of and esteeming the objection to the amendment of fellow Genjac by fellow Pamuk, I first tried to reshape to say so, or to formulate my fellow Genjac, so I would first ask him to accept, regardless of what someone can understand as a language game, but I think it's not just a language game or a language game. Dake, I suggest that the amendment reads like this. The funds that arise as the difference between the cost and income of the Agency are not subject to the profit tax and respecting what counterpart Jukić said, they are being deployed or the funds are being allocated to the fund's reserve and the rest. It's not just a language game. What has been achieved so far, the differences that we can call profits, which we can call surpluses, are known to exist economists of the definition of profits from old classic Smit, Marks and others, that we don't resort to them, you know. But I mean, no one guarantees 32 that they'll make that profit. They are not focused on making profits, but on making those funds to stimulate exporters. Whether they realize funds or not, therefore, is something that we can't do, they can't be bound by law as a non-profit organisation, but they're also expected to do more, to make more profits, give that kind of call or difference between the costs that these fees will have and then focus on these funds, so that their activities are fundamentally due to which the agency has been established. So it's not just a language game. I would also ask my colleague Pamuk to appreciate, that's the difference that inevitably arises and doesn't necessarily have to answer, but which occurs and which should only be directed. It's not profit, because it's not planned, because the agency isn't focused on it by its basic definition, and I would ask, therefore, a fellow Genjac to accept this transformation, which eases actually by saying that possibility, that that profit is meant as profit. The funds that are made by differences that do not have to be made are not profits.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3682	I thank my colleague Neimarlija. I think it's clearer for everyone now. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3683	Of course, it's obvious, I think this is an artificial problem, as we're going to call it, but we need to work out a deal, but I think it's on the trail of some solution that is being helped by a member of the 21st law, which hasn't been changed on the commission either. In Article 21, if the agency achieves a surplus of revenue in any financial year, that is how the surplus income is allocated by the Management Board as follows. So, in the law, it figures the name of excess income, in Article 21, which neither the commission has disputed nor who has challenged it. There's a notion of extra income and I'm, uh, I'm on to this and what's being said. I think Mr. Jukić's idea of directing these funds into the fund's reserve, founding capital, is quite fine and should be decidently cited. So, I propose that the formulation is a surplus of income, which the agency achieves, at the end of any financial year, freed the profit tax and the overall surplus of income is directed into the reserve funds and founding capital.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3684	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3685	Well, I'd just like to say for a second. Excess revenue and tax on surplus income and tax on surplus income. The explanation we have heard with this amendment and with this member is a universal explanation. I don't see any reason why they'd free me of the tax on the surplus of 33 incomes of this agency to fill the funds anymore and I don't know, and they wouldn't release any other institution or organization. Relieving a profit tax is a very serious matter. It's a matter of principle, and I don't see any reason why we'd be breaking that principle with this agency. Niko one's talking about the extra income that's going to stay after the profit tax. He'll be distributed by funds. But for what it's worth, that's for me, this explanation is a universal explanation, which applies to all the other agencies and institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3686	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3687	Well, I think it would be good for us to give up this amendment, not to regulate this area by this law, because there are other laws that will regulate it, which we will do the same thing Mr. Genjac used to say. So it's much simpler and that this amendment is withdrawn and, secondly, this information that, when I and Mr. Kumalić have consulted a little bit, I don't think they're good, they're not good, they're not economic categories, what Mustava said, the total pass, minus the cost of not getting it, minus the costs of funding gross profits, and then minus the tax on that, so it's just a win, so we're a little confused and the profession, and that's why I'm suggesting that we give up this amendment, and that this matter and the importance that this agency has and we get rid of it, and that the existing legal solutions are already attached to it, so we won't hurt it and we won't come in a position to pay taxes, because it says, if it's reinvested, then it's released.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3688	Thank you, fellow Radović. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3689	I, uh, really apologize for reporting so many times today, and I have no intention after this. I'd say, however, that we didn't mess up the profession. This isn't exactly the kind of thing we don't understand. Mr. Radović understands this well, but I understand his position as chairman of the Commission, who has already pleaded and discussed this, that he has one position, which, of course, had before. In response to the question, however, Dr Radovanović can be said to be the same and that, however, it is not the same. Here's a concrete example to explain the whole story. The Federation and RS Banking Agency, two of which exist, also operates on the same principles, charges and generates excess income. I certainly know each other and they make a good extra income. When the Agency achieves that surplus income, what is the benefit of the Agency now putting it on the pile and keeping it at its disposal. Nobody. Because she can't do anything but what she does. If she pays a tax on what she's earned as an extra income, it's useful, because she's full of budget. The position of the IGE is exactly the opposite and it is exactly on the line of what Mr. Jukić was saying. When I got a little involved around these amendments, in the last few days talking, I had the exact same proposal as Mr. Jukić, which is to ensure 34 risk funds and to ensure a certain portion of the capital surplus, in founding capital. Which then raises the rating, so the founding capital of the Agency raises the rating. As for me personally, to be very clear to you, if I were to be in a position to decide on this, one of my first decisions would be to provide additional funding for founding capital from any possible means or budget or other lines. And, for a fund of risk insurance and then to make this institution much stronger. Because it is not the same, so, the Agency, for example, the Entity Banking Agency cannot provide a bank guarantee, or guarantee needed for export, for export credits. However, this institution can. Therefore, it is not the same whether it retains its share of surplus income and strengthens its financial position or does the same to the Banking Agency. That's the difference, that's the specificity of this very institution. We, in fact, with relatively small money and with relatively small procedures, strengthen an institution that can be of great benefit to monitoring export arrangements. It's all about that. And that's the point. And, for that reason, I think this amendment, Mr. Genjac, would actually fully address the issue of the consistency of the law between this member and Article 21. I would ask you only once to look at this member who says, if the Agency achieves excess income, the overall surplus income will be directed and then says, and that, b that. What Dr. Genjac suggests, the excess income, which the Agency is apparently making, is exempt from the profit tax, the total profit is directed to the funds provided for by this law, e.g. I would put it so, in the funds provided for by this law, entirely solves everything and makes the whole law completely consistent. There are no more open questions and dilemmas at all, and there we still have the position of board of directors in Article 21 b. of the administrative position, in Article 21.a. He says he's going to the risk insurance funds, and in a unanimous decision by the Management Board on the second. That, Mr. Jukić, could be for example. An increase in capital and that would be a very interesting solution and, I believe, if you were on the board of directors, lucky you couldn't, because you're a member of this house to decide to go as much capital as possible. In that sense, colleagues, I think, since I think we agree on the essence of the story, which is, instead of taxing that income that the agency makes, to ensure that it stays in the agency as a whole to fill this risk insurance fund and, possibly, capital. This amendment is addressed, if it formulates itself as surplus revenue, which is achieved by the Agency, the full profit tax is directed at funds under this law, on the basis of this law or provided for by this law in accordance with Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3690	I find that each new discussion produces another two or three new ones, that's good, because in Parliament we have thrown a good tennis game. Next up is Mr. Vinko Radovanović. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3691	...with Mr. Čengić to keep the profit tax in the agency, in some ways increase its export, export credibility. But I'm also talking about the principle, the export-oriented company, if it gets free from paying the profit tax, will also be stimulated by these additional funds to increase, so I'm talking about the principle. It's a matter of principle that we can't favor some in relation to others. It's a matter of principle to be dealt with by VAT law, and I don't know about tax collection. So, I think that's a matter of principled settlement. So I don't think there's any need to single out certain agencies and certain entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3692	Thank you, colleague Radovanović. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3693	Thank you very much for your word. I'd like to brief you on the order. I wouldn't talk about where, possibly, the extra funds of this agency will be directed, so we don't discuss it at all, and it doesn't even talk about this amendment. I'd say about one illogicality. So it is illogical that we, in Article 4 and the amendment adopted by Mr Genjac, amend and we say that it is a non-profit legal person, and that now in article 8, which has been deleted by the Commission in my court, we are now talking about how we are going to distribute the profits. It's illogical for me as a lawyer, so I don't know how people in the financial profession look at the thing that a non-profit organization when there's extra funds, I don't know how they book, how they can profit from a non-profit organization. So, in what way it was before, so I'm not in that movie and I'm not close to it, but it's illogical that a non-profit, does a profitable business and that the same law in college is Article 4 and Article 8 and I totally agree with those who look at it that way. I'd get out of this problem in a very simple way, which is what Article 21 of the original text says about some possibility of a surplus of these funds. The amendment aims to say that the surplus payment funds will be released, calls it a profit and will be free of the tax on that profit. I would be inclined to accept one of my thoughts, to consider this thinking, preferably to accept it, to add point c in Article 21. So, to give up, to withdraw Mr. Genjac's amendment, to accept that the commission has deleted it, and to add point c. and to say in this point c. Article 21, the excess income from this article is untaxable. We've solved everything. The VAT law will come, no obligation will be paid, and tomorrow when we have VAT against the surplus income, which we call here, here the surplus income is a substitute for this profit in Article 8 of the surplus income over expenditure is therefore a net profit. You've paid for everything and you've got a surplus. So let the economists tell me if there's any other name for profit compared to excess income. If so, and I am convinced that so, then this revision of the supplement point c. in Article 21 would, when it is said, an excess of 36 revenue from this article is untaxable, thereby avoiding all the dilemmas about it, that the Agency will pay on that extra income it has at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3694	I think it's a very constructive proposal from a fellow Filipović. Here, Mr. Jukić. I'm sorry, Mr. Radović was actually registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3695	I think so, my answer to Mr. Hasan. No Niko argues that the Agency should be freed from taxes, it is not disputed, but it is disputed that we are pushing it in this article where it is not appropriate and in the way we think it cannot go through. There are other laws that regulate it and let other laws regulate it, not regulate it all by this article that we want to amend.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3696	Thank you, Mr. Radović. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3697	I'll do it very briefly. Article 21 shall bear the title of the extra income schedule. So when this article is studied well, it actually seemed that there was no surplus income, because it immediately decided on their distribution within these existing funds. Therefore, there is no profit. So the surplus income in business over the years has been divided into funds. So there's no profit and there's nothing to tax. I understand that, but in this way, I think that this particular instrument can be solved by other laws and that nothing should actually be done here, in my opinion. It's clear from this text of the law. The Commission's position is correct and I don't think there's a risk that it can come under the influence of profit tax laws or VAT, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3698	Thank you, fellow Jukić. Comrade Pamuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3699	I would ask here, here we came to one which was expected to be in one stalemate from which we do not know the World Bank gentlemen, I think there are many ways of other and more correct in our legislation, which can protect capital. Home is in the mood, as you can see, to adopt this Agency at, fully priced, appreciates the well-being of your institution and I think the Agency's resources are absolutely well protected by this other law. Insisting and trying to insist and write and correspondence in one such way brings this law into a position to be illogical and even unconstitutional. I have to say one thing before he came to the first implementation of this law when I first discussed his correction with a colleague who runs the institution, I said that the law was a little confusing, that it would be a good bit to get 37 straight. She did make things right, but I think we're in a good difficult situation. We want to build this agency, and we want it to be quality, we know a little bit about this business and we compare it, let's say we assume this agency with Hermes, I know this agency for a long, long, long time can't be anywhere near it, we want to have one this strong, one good agency. However, we must accept that this parliament must also protect its own legislation and I think that in this case the well-meaning of MPs must be valued and valued. We are ready to pass this law. You have seen from all the discussions that every MP, or representative, says that this organization should, that it is necessary, but that does not mean that by creating an organization like this, we need to get rid of our laws and make them so missed, to make them irrelevant according to some jobs. The tax and taxation area is tied to Bosnia and Herzegovina is regulated in other laws. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, exports were tax-free. I am not the person who thinks that business from this agency in this agency should be freed from VAT, the VAT in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not even bread free. We're trying to keep everything that way. So I don't see why extremely profitable jobs would be free of VAT. I think we have to respect that and I don't know, I have to admit that these letters that I got don't cheer me up, and these, at least as far as my opinion goes, can't even sway me. I mean what I think and I want to say. We were trying to get on the board to do the best thing we could. At first, we tried to correct what we thought was wrong, that it was wrong. We've delayed one action, we've extended 15 or 20 days to get it done. There were conversations between them and showed one maximum will to do it, but to do it correctly. But here it looks like it's not working. Why? That's the question. I think that here we must, we must little and appreciate the opinion and MPs and they have, that is, representatives and they have their opinions and all of them, regardless of which education they have some knowledge of these jobs, and I think that these opinions must be respected and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3700	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. Since I see that you have only applied for the proposal, my colleague Genjac, I would suggest, we have, I think we have quite exhausted the debate on this agenda point, of course you will get the word, so I would suggest, since there have been several proposals here, since there have been several proposals I would suggest that the motioner therefore make a decision which text will propose to adopt the amendment, or will withdraw it. So I give my words to Dr. Halid Genjac. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3701	Oh, yeah, let's focus on the dialogue between the amendment and the MPs. We'll leave these dialogues behind later. So, I, as an amendment promoter, after all the arguments I've heard, still hold that it is useful to strengthen this agency financially and I think there have been a number of quality proposals in the course of the debate. Just to remind you of Law on VAT Article 25, which says the following, is getting rid of paying VAT in a law that has been with us for 3 months and I hope we all have read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3702	But it wasn't adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3703	He's in the process. It is proposed that they be released from the payment of VAT insurance services, resecuritisation, including accompanying services of intermediaries and insurance agents, etc. etc. Now, with what's been said during the debate, I'm proposing an amendment, so I'm going to make a formulation and we're going to get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3704	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3705	So the delegates have a sovereign right to plead yes and against and none of it will be to anyone, believe me. Only the law can be more quality and less qualitative. So, after all this has been said I accept that Article 8 is deleted as the Commission has proposed and that because of these new elements that were created in the course of the debate that the College accepts and the new amendment, I would ask, which is that point c is added in Article 21, which is said to be - the excess revenue in this article is untaxable. In Article 21, point (c) is added which reads as follows: the excess revenue provided for in this Article shall be non-taxable. There, please, and that's my final suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3706	Well, since it is, I'm sorry I'm saying,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3707	89. 3.b) can go by this because these are the new circumstances that are 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3708	Break five minutes. Therefore, in accordance with Article 89. [[PAUZA]] The Rules of Procedure on the Work of Point 3, which reads – after the debate begins, will chair in consultations with the Vice-President's deputies the new amendments only in the following cases, so we have under b) when they seek to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held. So this is the basis for us to accept the proposal of our fellow Genjac, and now we can make a statement about the amendment that he has proposed. So, I'd like to ask my fellow Genjac, here's because some colleagues are asking to read this one more time, to say what amendment is now that we're going to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3709	... in Article 21 adds point (c) that reads – the excess income from this article is untaxable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3710	I thank my fellow Genjac. No more reports. The debate, therefore, has been exhausted on this agenda point, i.e. under this amendment. We're pleading Mr. Gencj's amendment. You can vote. Yeah, I've given it time to go. 8 for, 4 against. So there's no entity majority, is there? There's no entity majority. So the members of the College agree. So we're voting on entities now because no agreement has been reached in the College. So who's against this amendment from the Federation of BiH? So the Federation delegates vote. Now you can vote, I apologize. One's against it, all right. Now, delegates from Republika Srpska will vote. Who's against it? So you can vote. Only who's against the vote. The amendment was rejected, since four delegates from Republika Srpska are against it. So let's just go back to law now. The 40th Amendment was therefore not adopted. Given the fact that the Law is in, i.e. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3711	I would draw attention, please, given the importance and importance of the Law, etc., the Commission adopted, among other things, an amendment that erases this Article 7 on immunity and has been completely dissipated because it has been so awkwardly and unhappily formulated that it had a completely different connotation and meaning compared to intensity. When I spoke to the agency's management, they did not have an important issue of immunity and they did not insist on the immunity, however, there was always a question of independence of the agency's work. This morning, members of the College and club presidents received a memo from the deputy chairman of Mr. Hejs's OHR that points to him and I think we should pay attention to that. Therefore, this formulation is proposed in Article 7 of the immunity issue to be resolved in a way that is thought to be resolved and which was the intention of telling the Agency – the Agency will manage its business activities independently despite the provisions of Article 5. The Council of Ministers and any member thereof shall not grant the Agency or any of its directors, or MPs, instructions relating to any individual proposal or transaction addressed to the Agency in order to provide its support, nor shall they attempt to influence the Agency. So it's obvious that the intention to avoid the possible influence of the government in terms of saying that's my friend, you have to give him credit. No matter the profitability, the bonus, etc. etc. In view of this, therefore, amendments have not been tabled, amendments that regulate this issue have not been tabled in good time, I propose to the College to consider this issue and to assess the possibility of investing in subsequent amendments. So I'm suggesting, and that's a question that I think is worth the attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3712	Thank you. A fellow Jukić. Here you go. I think Mr. Jukić was thinking of discussing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3713	No, I was going for a replica of Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3714	We'll listen to each other. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3715	Okay. An MP has an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3716	Item 4. After voting on all the proposed amendments, the draft law in its final text will be voted immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3717	Mr. Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3718	Mine won't do anything to refute what Mr. Radović read, because it really does say it in the Rules of Procedure, but another thing I'm going to comment on, this letter from Mr. Hejs. I believe that we did the right thing in terms of what Mr. Hejs wrote, or signed Mr. Hejs. So there is no doubt, there is no doubt, no doubt through solutions in the law and these revisions through amendments that there is no guarantee of full independence to the Agency for the performance of its activities. Namely, Article 7 which speaks of the Agency's independence is now – the Agency's independence in the conduct of its activities, according to this law point. So that's the article that said everything. Nothing should be explained in this article, and yet further in this law it is said that the board of directors, directors, etc. is elected. Therefore, the responsibility, obligations, to report to the annual Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, etc. about your work, etc. In my view, therefore, this principle is fully respected by the current solution, i.e. the formulations in the current decisions of this law. I believe that we have been responsible here and that we have really allowed the Agency to carry out its activities independently and without any influence, in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3719	There are no reports. We'll vote on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? You can vote. Unanimity. So 13 for. Given the fact that the law in the homes of our parliamentary assembly is adopted in different texts, we should appoint members for a joint committee for text alignment. Here you go, pal Čengić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3720	In front of the Bosniak Club, I suggest Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3721	Thank you. So, fellow Genjac is the Bosniak's proposal. Croatian club. Mr. Jukić in front of the Croatian club and in front of the Serbian club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3722	The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr. Nad Radović and only, please one correction. I voted for the law, so I'm probably too early, so I see it there. So I'm publicly saying that I'm loud about the adoption of the law, no matter what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3723	Okay. Unanimity, but 13. So unanimity has been passed this law. We have the usual practice of taking lunch off somewhere at this time, but in addition to the request of Mr Kumalić, who is really sick, I was convinced, he asked, and it is very important that he is present, or his presence at the next item of the agenda. So I suggest we continue our work and move on to the next item of the agenda, Ad.11. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Internal Affairs So, we received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives received information at its 46th session, held on 4 November of this year, and I am opening a debate on this agenda. Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3724	On behalf of the Commission, the Administrative Financial Commission of the People's House discussed information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal responsibility at its meeting and proposed that it be accepted by the House after the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3725	I thank my colleague, Radović. Next up is a colleague of Limov. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3726	Thank you, Mr. President. I, of course, respecting the circumstances in which we're doing this I'm going to say a few words very briefly, and I personally think that we're going to accept this, that we're not going to accept it, that we're not going to accept it, that we're going to take it according to the structure and the information itself, the timing, etc. So I want to figure out something that's in the information itself, and I think it's important. There is no dilemma that this issue is extremely important and that it should be addressed. I am personally aware that not solving this issue is a significant obstacle to investment, employment and development in our country, but also, given the development of not resolving this issue, I think, above all, to the entity approach and the fact that we have the right solution in this sense, it is clear that many hopes and expectations of citizens will remain unfulfilled. In any case, I would say, more importantly, there is a fact in all this that this question should be taken seriously because of the fact that it is, in particular, part of foreign exchange savings, the property of citizens, and it is in general the attitude of citizens and their demands towards governments of different levels, including the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, it is quite clear that a significant amount will be envisaged and written off, so that it will be evident that there will be dissatisfaction and it is quite certain that Bosnia and Herzegovina will experience the fact that those who are dissatisfied will even address the Court of Human Rights. So there's nothing left to do but take it to the knowledge, and maybe it's in this situation, and our position is more comfortable because practically we at the state level have, please, I don't know, I'm going to finish it, considering all of these, so personally I'm willing to go to the level of receiving knowledge, and I'm not ready to accept this information, because we see from the very content that's all involved in solving this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3727	I thank my colleague Limov. I'm a colleague of Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3728	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Limov has already said a part of what I intended, but I would still like to, using the opportunity that Mr. Kumalić, Deputy Finance Minister, is present here to ask the question – what is, in fact, the objective of the Council of Ministers' decision from the 63rd session to forward this information to Parliament? First of all, because we have here a single piece of information that also has valuable courts where the applicant evaluates and values himself with one sentence that is mildly expressed scandalous. First, he says that many hopes and expectations of citizens will remain unfulfilled for maintaining fiscal self-sustainability. So it's this kind of a statement that's literally rude and I'm afraid of impertinence. So sassy. But the peak of all, all the insolence is next – given all the above, it is evident that brave steps have been taken. Imagine how the Council of Ministers and the authorities who wrote this paper took bold steps to propose that they take private property savings, to take claims from 44 public procurements, to take commitments from war claims. Well, I think that's really brave. It is brave to be this bold and to send such paper to Parliament. This deserves to just go back and say that it's unserious, that it's irresponsible, that it's incomplete, that there's no methodology, that there's no system, that there's no insight, and that in the end it's simply in one brutal text of several paragraphs that says that we're going to wipe this out, and that for God's sake we're going to get to this positive function, that we're nice and nice, economically acceptable and macro-economically stable, we're going to erase all debts to 10%. We'll just figure out who gets 10%. Which party, which nation, which entity, which canton, which company, which firm, which private and which which one. This one irresponsible paper sent to this home is irresponsible, it's really irresponsible. It would just be more irresponsible than us to accept this in any way, here's what I say as much as possible, not even knowing, but going back to writing paper. Let me just take this opportunity and suggest to the House one single conclusion that there is a part of the information from page one. Information on internal duty in this subsection relating to the determination of resolution. For God's sake, he needs a solution, not a solution. There was no more resolution in the old church, but here we have in all versions about paying off the internal debt. Paragraph 3 says -- the procedure includes the law on determining, how Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt is settled. I suggest that before we reach a position to propose a law, we get one full piece of information about this argument for and against which one will be based on this law. When we get into a situation to get the bill, that's when the story ends, because someone has defined the strategy, someone has defined the general directions, approaches, etc. To be clear, I'm probably more than many others, especially those who have claims, and I don't have any foreign debt to be clear, I don't have war claims, my house is burned down, and it's my grandmother's, it's not mine, so I can halalyze and I don't have any other claims. So personally I have no interest in this, but from the point of view of the general interest and interest of individuals who have the right to their property to seek it, it would be irresponsible to make a decision, and before that, we do not have a chance to discuss such a serious issue. At the same time, I am absolutely interested in macroeconomic stability, because it is clear to me as non-economicists, and I can think that it is only for economists that without macroeconomic stability there is no work, no production, no income, no trade, no budget, no other. But not on papers like this. These are irresponsible things, these are non-serious things, and I can't believe that someone can dare to accept such unserious paper on the Council of Ministers and then send it so unseriously. 45 So, I propose to the esteemed House to ask the Council of Ministers to prepare one full piece of information with a strategy he intends to propose in a law that will resolve internal debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3729	I thank my colleague, Čengić. A colleague of Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3730	I'd just have one question for the council gentleman. Namely, here, since this is government information, it says here that the claim will be described. Is that the government's claim? Is that how I understand it? If it's about the write-off, it's a question that deserves a lot of attention. However, in addition to information from the government, it says here that a large write-off of the total amount of demand will be required. Is that what the government's claims are supposed to be, that it's going to go away? Then that's it. When the gentleman speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3731	Just sit down, Mr. Kumalić. If there's anyone else, then you'll give a summary answer. No Niko checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3732	This information was made at the request of the Presidency and by its date you see that although the Council of Ministers decided to forward it to the House of Representatives which it had adopted, accepted it without a problem and I see it now at the House of Peoples, so it deserves something more to be said. Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal debt had to be resolved and within the last two years it has worked together with international financial institutions, primarily the IMF. Last year, the IMF established a criterion, or one principle, or if you want a rule when it said that in a stand-by arrangement, a supplementary stand-by arrangement that the internal debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be resolved with 10% of the gross social product. At that time, the gross social product was 12.5 billion, which meant about a billion and 250 million. Indeed, it was very difficult for the IMF, i.e. representatives of the IMF, together with entities and dreams, to hold several times long-term meetings and to convince them that there was a special issue, any problem was known to respond to these old foreign currency savings. However, to note that war damage, old foreign savings, budget commitments and commitment to commercial banks' loans are entering into foreign currency savings. The state, the central level of government in, the main budget, it does not, is its debt only 493 thousand and you have already passed the law. 46 A law at the level of Republika Srpska has also been passed, meaning the Law on how the debt is paid, the Federation adopted, however, at the latest as the Brcko District. And they all solved how they solved it and well here someone used the term that practically debt was mostly written off, and it was written off for the simple reason that most of the foreign savings, war damages and other claims for which the bonds will be paid in 20, 30, 25 or 50 years. In particular, these bonds that will be issued only in the Federation 0.5% interest which is normally unrealistic, others in the RS and Brcko District have no interest, means that it is a practical write-off if it is observed in the concept of the time value of money... This problem is more comprehensive and more content, given that laws have now been passed to make more detailed information for this home and for the second and representative home, but we are no longer able to influence these decisions. Those regulations were practically passed. In history, many countries have been known to be such measures in the case of Russia, a case of some South American countries, in order not to endanger the country's macro-economic stability, in order for fiscal sustainability to be maintained, the internal debt issue must be resolved. You know we have a B3 rating that's not exactly that attached to foreign investment. By resolving Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal debt position in attracting foreign investment, it is in a much more favourable position, normally also by introducing VAT and a series of these laws. Now comes the Lising Act, etc. This market environment is created, which is the main and is the main objective I believe and the Council of Ministers and this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3733	I thank Mr. Kumalić. We had a proposal to conclude Mr. Čengić and here, it would be good if Col. Čengić could repeat the proposal for a conclusion so that we could make a statement about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3734	So very short for the Council of Ministers to prepare a report with a strategy to be included in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Internal Debt Resolution Act. Full information with the strategy to be included, which will be evaluated for the adoption of that law, as the law is mentioned in the report that it is in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3735	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3736	No, no, no. We did bring in that part of Bosnian, but I'm talking about. So I'm the lead on page one, which is what the information thinks, I think, the same thing. Nothing else. On page 1. in section number 2. indent number 3. is said – in the procedure is unless it is brought in, and writes there in the procedure. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3737	Okay. We've received information that the laws adopted are these. So the proposal for this conclusion is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3738	The second part then retreats.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3739	So we have a proposal to conclude that, full information, right, fellow Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3740	Me and the ways to solve it. I mean, it turns out
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3741	Okay. The head won't hurt any of these conclusions. I suggest we make a statement, therefore, on the conclusion proposed by Mr Čengić and here I am opening the vote. Who's in? Mr. Čengić's unanimous conclusion has been adopted now. Wait, we're not the law, and if we'd gotten the information, it would have been. Here's a proposal so let's get on with the work, because we have an agreement to ratify various declarations and agreements, so we move on to the 12th point of the agenda, because it seems to me that you're all up to it to get on with the work. Ad.12. Giving consent to ratification of the Anti-doping Declaration in sports Report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 44th session. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3742	Very short. As in the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3743	I thank my colleague, Filipović. So, is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. 48 Who is it that we agree to ratify the Anti-doping Declaration in sport? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity. 13th item of the agenda Ad.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement (EMSAC) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development – IDA The report of the committee responsible has been received. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 46th session held on 4 November this year. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3744	The Commission has considered this agreement. She made a proposal to support herself. It's very clear about the tightening of belts, or the thick control of budgets, the principles of budgeting, budget implementation and budget spending from now to 2007, and all because we're going to get, or we get a loan of 23 million 200 000 special draw rights for 20 years. It's a 10-year grace period. The credit is cheap, the controls are expensive and they last permanently. We suggest she adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3745	Thank you, fellow Čengić. No further reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? Now. Unanimity. It's unanimous, therefore, that consent is given. Moving to point 14. Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania You have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm a colleague of Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3746	So this agreement is signed. It should help develop tourism between our two countries, mostly without big business or business. It should ensure easier traffic, passage, entry into the country and normally in such communications. We suggest she adopt. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3747	Thank you very much. No Niko's answered again. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? Open vote. Unanimously adopted, given consent. Point 15. Ad.15. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Veterinary Cooperation We have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3748	This agreement is formally very short, but it is very important because we have received in fact one international confirmation from us important in the economy and in the communications of neighbouring Croatia that we are a partner who has institutions that can co-operate in the veterinary field. The Agreement provides for a way of reacting in the transport of animals or products of animal origin in transit, import, export, possibly in the event of different diseases and in the manner of co-operation between scientific and research institutions and state institutions. We suggest that the agreement be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3749	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no reports are filed. So, who's in favor of giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty we were talking about? Now. We unanimously agreed. 16th Point Ad.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement (Other Employment Support Project) between BiH and the International Development Association (SESP) We have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3750	So this agreement also provides significant funds of about 7, 8 million and 200 thousand special draw rights is intended, conditions are equal to 10 years grace period, total payment 20 years. A very cheap loan intended for three purposes, for the employment of 10,000 unemployed, to strengthen institutions that at all levels of state are working with the unemployed and to strengthen the implementation of a jukt that should train its staff to be able to provide similar loans and similar projects in the future we propose to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3751	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm opening a vote. We unanimously gave consent to ratification. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, that's Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Development Credit between BiH and the International Development Association (IDA) – The second credit for the adjustment of the social sector (SOSAC II) was received from the Commission's report. I'm opening a debate. I'm a colleague of Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3752	So this loan is worth 34 million and 700 thousand, distributed between two entities to 23 million and 100 for the Federation in 11 million and 600 for RS. It's about funds that under the same conditions for 20 years, 10 years grace period. So they are intended for several very important activities. This is the question of revisions, when it comes to wartime military people, civil war victims, social welfare issues, etc., i.e. the possibility of ensuring quality services and quality institutions, and the equipment and training of personnel working in the field of social issues on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are actually obliged to adopt a series of regulations and sublegal acts that are uniformly regulated by issues such as this. if someone has obtained a pension right at one address, or one place of residence, and then stays in another place, that they can be sure that they will receive an orderly pension etc. So this is how we regulate a series of important areas of social protection. We suggest we give consent. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3753	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Open vote. A unanimous agreement has been given to ratify this important agreement. Point 18 of the Ad.18 agenda. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on road transport of passengers and cargo We have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3754	So this agreement is to say one routine agreement, because we already have a string. It does not contain anything in particular new, defined in the same way as among other bilateral agreements concerning road traffic, passenger transport, goods transport, registration methods and how to obtain licences, dispute resolution, etc. Let me, however, draw attention to one fact, simply offered and the question that Mr. Genjac asked today at the beginning that I didn't know he was going to ask, and I guess again he was offered the contribution that we could see in one of the television logs about these licenses to transport goods. Namely, if I do an analysis of what has been done so far in this international road transport, or agreements, let me say that between Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro, ratified agreements have been signed between Belarus, Russia and Bulgaria, initialled between Ukraine and Greece. It might be a little malignancies if someone else reads this and says this is about Orthodox countries that are in the high-level insurance of these contracts, and at the same time. with France since '98. Until today, he had a initialed unsigned and unwarranted agreement. France is a very important partner and is also an important country in transport, i.e. in transit, in transport through Europe. On the other hand, I have to admit that I don't know why this didn't happen, so I know that it was meant for Minister Ašanin to be a signator of the agreement after it was initialled that the change in the composition of the Council of Ministers was no longer a minister and since '98. To this day, I repeat, since '98. To date, no Council of Ministers has decided who will replace Mr Ašanin in signing a contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and France. I don't think that's very good. I support doing so with Belarus, but it would be important to do so with France. 52 On the other hand, we have a situation with Italy, which is also not a ratified agreement, and it is likely that it could be a problem that it is not updated by our foreign ministry, so I am taking the opportunity to make this request to the competent ministries in the Council of Ministers to update these two cases and everything else, because I am afraid there are still a few cases that are long-sighted, and let's say the issue has not been resolved yet and the paraphrasing of the agreement with Spain, Belgium, Portugal, etc. Which countries I think are important and can be of benefit to our economic and transport co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3755	I am voting to give consent to ratify this agreement. Open vote. Thank you. It's unanimous, so we agreed. Point 19 of the agenda, last Ad.19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on Cooperation on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River (Convention on the Protection of the Danube River) You have received a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3756	So, this is about a convention that is relatively municipal, which defines a lot of things, but primarily it defines issues of water protection in the Danube Basin, so in this sense the largest number of rivers in Bosnia and Herzegovina is treated, so Bosnia and Herzegovina is the signator of this contract, but it also treats facilities built on rivers in the river, or objects built along rivers, and can affect that even groundwater. Very short. It is an agreement that can have very serious economic repercussion in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because a number of products or a number of activities that can be environmental pollutants, in other words water pollutants, including mining, etc. In this respect, the mechanism of functioning and control, co-operation, decision-making where there are financial requirements, decisions must be taken by consensus. In other cases, a decision may also be made with 4/5 votes in favour. We suggest that the agreement be accepted. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-23-0.u3757	Thank you very much. There are no reports. So we're voting on giving consent to ratify this convention. Now you can vote. 14 for, so we unanimously adopted this proposal, gave consent, and I thank you. We've exhausted the agenda of today's session and I'll see you soon. Cheers. The session was completed at 15.00 hours.
