ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12001	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 34th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests as well as the representatives of international and non-governmental organizations who are monitoring the work of the House were invited to attend the session. As you know at the session, the presidents, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, the OSCE, the EU, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Head of the Mission of the Council of Europe in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Supervisory Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring the work of our home, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. Once again, I warmly welcome you both representatives and our guests. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you all to put your cards in order to have information on your presence in the hall. Also, please remove your cards on your way out of the hall and place them again on your return. It is also my duty to warn you of a fact that appeared at last session during the vote. You know that we now have a new technique and that we have accurate data on each vote as to how any representative voted. Last time on some issues, we had information that some representatives who were present had not voted. You know that according to the Rules of Procedure you have the ability to vote in three ways. To be "yes," to be "against" or "abstained." The Rules of Procedure do not know the possibility of a representative present not voting. Please respect this. If you still do not understand anything about the vote, you may request intervention and assistance. But this is important and I'm asking you to stick to it. It's in the interest of all of us. We saw the last time we used the benefits of this technique and I think you'll understand these suggestions and interventions. Thanks again. I therefore conclude that the session is attended by 33 representatives. It's from Federation 23, Republika Srpska 10. 2 We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. The absence was justified by the official route, Mr Nikola Špirić, Mrs Ruža Sopta, Mr Miloš Jovanović, Mr Muhamed Moranjkić, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr Munib Jusufović. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda for the 34th session. Before this session at 9:00, we held a session of the Extended College and agreed on this agenda and agreed that today we do not have an addition to the agenda, that this is one working session that we have, I can say in an accelerated way, scheduled. I think it's good to speed up the work of the House and in a plenary sense. The next session will be held on the 4.5th month. That's in 10 days. She's also prepared and I'm asking you to honor this arrangement of ours. I think that'll make it easier for everyone. Please check all of you again for cards and press enough to record your presence. Thank you very much. So it's on the agenda. I'm opening a debate if there's anyone on the agenda. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12002	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I do not want to expand, but I am asking for the opportunity to shorten today's agenda. Namely,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12003	But that's about cutting this deal short.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12004	It is, in fact, the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 105. Before this session at the College, we received some additional papers regarding this law that in one way create a dilemma. To avoid today, I fear we have made a bad decision and sent a bad message, which is not our intention, and I propose to the representatives of the Council of Ministers that today, if it is possible to withdraw from the agenda, that it be left for the 4th to carry out the additional consultations that are obviously necessary and I immediately say that I spoke before this meeting with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that he has expressed his understanding of such a proposal and is therefore ready to accept it with one of his suggestions to adopt a working conclusion that we ask the processors and the meat manufacturer so that by 4 they do not take steps to block the borders, etc., because 3 this time is not the result of the failure and inactivity of the Council of Ministers, but the time needed for full consultation in order to get the solution we take. I ask you indeed also fellow Members of Parliament and the people of the Council of Ministers and the chair to respect you, we try to actually respect you, so that today we take this point off the agenda and allow these 10 days to remove all ambiguities. Nothing else. I am deeply convinced that this law is in favour of primary production, when a little deeper analysis is required, but that consultation is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12005	I thank Mr. Novaković. Would anyone like to comment on behalf of the promoter? Mr. Tošić. I'd like to ask you for a pay phone if you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12006	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, dear guests, I just want to say at this point that we can agree with Mr. Novaković. It is very important for us that because of our primary production, we see that there are a lot of disagreements and we have received from, a memo from the Chamber of Commerce of Republika Srpska and the Government of Republika Srpska that they want in some way to clarify some more, and yet we have a terrible pressure from primary production, and in this sense it would be better if it can not go through today, and we see that there are other moods this law means that we, too, from the Council of Ministers, are once more combined with primary agricultural production with representatives of both entities, especially the chambers we sit down and try to arrange this by 4 April, until 4 May, as Mr. Novaković said. I'm saying on the condition that this can't be done today, it would be a shame to say no to this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12007	Anybody else want some? Mr. Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12008	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I don't think we should today, if we can in any way not declare this law today, to postpone to the fourth statement about it, because I personally think that we have insufficient knowledge on this issue at all levels, or from all tomorrow those who need and benefit from it and who need to implement it. I think not enough has been achieved, that not everyone has been involved enough and that not everyone is aware of whether because of being guided, the Council of Ministers led by the desire to find certain solutions as soon as possible, so that not everyone could have been sufficiently informed, but as far as I came to know, they are so contrary about this particular attitudes and a certain argument that I am afraid that we are not going to bring one project that may be on track to find a solution for primary production and to delay it and that we are doing damage just because they are not all sufficiently directed because they are probably 4 not participating, or because people have not been in a position to meet the complete project that allows this law of people to know. I therefore believe that all these issues with processors, but also with producers, should be clarified by 4. is this about common interests so that they can get practically one consent and consensus that this law can be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12009	I thank Mr. Kragulj. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12010	Mr. Chairman, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the guests, on behalf of the Club, I would like to express our willingness to support the agenda that we have accepted on the extended college, of course, by having a lot of understanding for Mr. Novaković's initiative, and that is what Mr. Kragulj was talking about, in effect, that the promoter actually expressed his understanding that we have reached an optimal solution within the deadline left. The club can accept that and, of course, I would ask my fellow Members not to extend the practical agenda, but rather what we have already defined on the enlarged College to plead in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12011	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The chairman of the Council of Ministers has the right, Mr. Belkić, to have your word after him. Please. But according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has a word and I ask you to hear Mr. Terzić's opinion, because as far as I know, Mr. Terzić has had consultations with clubs in the function of preparing this debate and accepting this agenda point, and therefore it is put on the agenda. If there is any valid and quality explanation, let us hear it and see what we do. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so here is yesterday the Republika Srpska government made one decision that challenges the quality of the proposed law that needs to be amended and supplemented by the law that needs to be discussed. I just want to say that the Council of Ministers formed a working group in which it is composed and led by the foreign trade minister as early as December. The Federation and Republika Srpska Agriculture Ministers, the Veterinary Office, the State Border Service, Customs, representatives of the association of producers, primary producers and representatives of the Processors' Association. So this task force has met several times. I've been there myself. After 7-8 hours, measures were sought to protect domestic 5 production in light of the application of the Free Trade Treaty and not only in light of the application of the Free Trade Treaty, but also in light of the position of primary producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must admit that the last three working groups were attended by the Minister of Agriculture and no one from the Republika Srpska government, and were regularly attended by representatives of primary and processor manufacturers from Republika Srpska. And that's probably why yesterday's conclusion. I agree that, here's a problem that certainly requires everyone's support and that we don't have to go to vote and vote here and push something that can end on May 4th. However, I would like to say that even if there is little urgency, it is a product of strong pressure from primary manufacturers and processors. You know they were going out on the border and they wanted to protest here and they wanted to go out again. This legislative proposal you have ahead of you is a product of full dialogue between all stakeholders in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding this issue. I have to say, absolutely no problems in primary production, and even in processing we wouldn't have if the entity governments did their job the way they needed to do it. So if from each prelemance, every kilogram of meat imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina, if that prelemance came to the primary producers, surely that the primary producers would work perhaps in conditions that are best in Europe. Just a few years ago, the prelemns were introduced. Only 11% of the advances come in some way with hard-core negotiations, strikes, etc. it comes to primary producers. Everything else is spent in the military, in the police, in health care, education, etc. So it's simply not clear to me that the Republika Srpska government can not consult the Council of Ministers, that it does not consult the task force, that it does not participate in the work of the working group, and that it brings to such a politically sensitive moment, when there are pressures on all sides to draw conclusions as they were made yesterday. I also suggest that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly form an ad hoc commission that will prepare this issue together with the Council of Ministers for 4 May. I say it is in line with everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with everyone interested and only those who did not participate in the reconciliation, and they had that opportunity, they had this obligation today making problems. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12013	I thank Mr. Terzić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, then Mr. Đedović, then Potočnik, then Lagumdžija. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12014	I'm very sorry, here's what continues is the practice of broad debates that would be much better placed when we discuss the case itself, namely the law itself. But here's what it looks like with us. I stand in the name of the club that we respect an agreement. When it comes to the change agreed by me, the promoters have the right and we do not dispute, but let them come out clearly and let them say – we withdraw the law. I would like to remind you that customs policy is the sole jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All this talk, consultations, agreements, I respect that very much, but responsibility and the right to conduct customs policies is exclusively on state authorities. Therefore, I am absolutely not interested in other letters, later letters, etc. This should be applied by the Council of Ministers in its working method in the way he thinks it should. Therefore, we will not ask or ask to change the agenda unless the motionor withdraws his own proposal. Along the way, the explanation of the change in tariff is such a nature that it is below each level. I suggest that the change of tariff attitudes be made to explain in a different way why it does so, that we do not now read the explanation here as it seems.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12015	The word is Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12016	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, should not change the agenda point, but let it go according to normal procedure, so under Article 104 and let the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission deal with this problem, because it went beyond that commission at all. We didn't even see it. As for the problem itself in 2002, 6.5 tonnes imported such raw materials. In 2003, 10,000 tonnes are imported, which means nothing happens in a real primary processing process. This proposal is just an attempt to resolve the segment and it's not right. So I suggest we go according to normal procedure and go through the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12017	The word was again requested by Mr. Terzić. Here you go, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12018	I responsibly argue that this, for the first time, is certainly direct support and direct assistance to primary producers, because if we have a system that anyone who wants to import a ton of pig meat, a pig's bellies that are not in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that quality in order to be processed, he must buy 2 tonnes from domestic primary producers and bring to him who approves of importing the quota, the invoice that he paid for it. So this is direct support to the primary manufacturer. And for the first time, when this problem is solved, you know that for years under the reduction system that the Council of Ministers has made on the reduction, the abolition of the advances for these meat categories that are clearly not in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that these contingents have been imported, but that only benefiting the processing industry. This is direct support and direct, direct assistance to primary producers, because this is what we have committed and forced processors to buy first on the domestic market, and then to go in, to use any benefits they may have, if this legislation is passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12019	I thank Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12020	...see, the matter is urgent and simply me and my associates know how many hours we have with manufacturers, processors who want to get the opportunity to solve this problem this way. We also hold that they don't go to the streets, that they don't go to the border and simply ask me to withdraw this legislation by May 4th, I don't think it's correct at least. If you consider it necessary yet, I just said I don't mind, but I also expect that if there is a withdrawal for May 4th that the Parlametary House of Representatives will invite both producers and processors not to go out on the street, that you will explain to them that the Council of Ministers is doing something to solve this problem and that by May 4, we can wait for this solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12021	Mr. Terzić, you can stay for a second. This is a mandatory agenda item. We don't vote, she's already on the agenda. So you have a situation that this is on the agenda. The MPs will determine whether to accept your request or not. You're the judge. Here's your chance to judge. It's your responsibility now. Not to us now. You can either pull or stay on the agenda. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12022	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am joining, above all, the demands that have been heard here today that this is not done the way this is proposed here and Mr. Potočnik's proposal has been the most reasonable and offers the best complete solution, not the 8 solution that will calm us down for the next few days, and then open the entire avalanche of new problems that we will later not be able to do normally. In fact, it should be made very clear to the public, this is called the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, and it can be commonly called a permit or an invitation to import garbage into Bosnia and Herzegovina which Europe does not want to eat. So we know what we're talking about. So let's not play kabuki games here. This is an invitation to import trash. Here you import everything that's junk how, even nicely written here. In addition to this change of law, a whole set of measures that we have adopted by accepting 16 conditions for later entry into the EU should also go ahead, i.e. the start of negotiations for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This means that you could control this decision to not be what I just said, it has to be monitoring with a whole set of institutions and sublegal and other acts, and also a law that should prevent a whole peach from opening up in this way that will make this country a dump, and make people out of this country's stomachs a trash processor. And that's what the public needs to know. And that's why I suggest that this proposal be followed by a brief procedure as proposed by fellow Potočnik. And otherwise, the full responsibility for this, regardless of how this agenda ends, is borne by the promoter. If this decision is adopted and she has negative consequences, the proponent is responsible for this. If this decision is not adopted, the proponent is again having a consensus because it is the proposing that must have awareness of the existence of its own parliamentary majority, or of some reasonable majority that does not have to be the one who supports the Council of Ministers, which will be acceptable on the project we agreed on. And that is why I once again propose a shortened procedure, and at the same time express my dissatisfaction, Mr. Chairman, as I read yesterday in the press that the High Representative has made a decision amending and supplementing the State Service Act, as it says at the request of the entity prime ministers and prime minister of state, Mr. Terzić, which I find totally unacceptable, because I believe that I am one law, one that meant that entity civil servants in the process of transforming defence ministries into forming a single state ministry can go, so to speak as state officials. If such a thing is brought together among them, I don't see any reason why we didn't have it in front of us today under Article 105 who, as reasonable people, would accept something that the 3 prime ministers agreed on. And I really find this totally unacceptable, that it is a slap to this Parliament, completely unnecessary, because the visok Representative has made a decision that we would make, quite naturally, that a man who works in the entity ministry, and a civil servant, does not have to go through a procedure that is unreasonable in a situation where we all want to join a partnership for peace. And instead of offering us decisions that this parliament will be pleased to adopt, we are being offered decisions that need to amnesty of those who need to give us prepared decisions here that will be acceptable to the citizens of this country. So please, Mr. Chairman, I do not want to extend the agenda, because you have so agreed to the College, but I insist that this decision be put on the agenda, as soon as possible as possible, as an amendment to the relevant law and that Parliament be fenced from being defended by such reasonable moves. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12023	I thank the gentleman. He was looking for Mr. Terzić. Here you go. Let Mr. Altić prepare himself, so Mr. Zorić, so Mr. Avdić, and please bear in mind that we are looking for a solution here now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12024	Well, first of all, since the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija likes to communicate with the public and send paroles that are absolutely not true, not to say another word, I must say that this is not an invitation to import garbage into Bosnia and Herzegovina and it seems to me that he still lives at a time when he led the Council of Ministers and when they called and when they opened the borders and when they did nothing under God to protect domestic production. When they had a Veterinary Office that had not done a single regulation for two years, for two years, he did not examine a single thing that entered Bosnia and Herzegovina, when they failed to implement the Law on Veterinary and Mass of Other Things. This is gentlemen, to be precise, and which he wanted to read the explanation stands precisely - this is only the opening of the process, the legislative process and giving the possibility of the Council of Ministers to make a decision, which would then determine the exact and precise ways how one of these three items would be imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's what Mr. Lagumdžija knows very well, and he's downplaying you here, and as you can see, he's trying to do it with the public. This is just an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act, which, by adopting nothing happens if the Council of Ministers does not make a decision and does not specify how and how it will happen. We sit and have a full and open dialogue with the representatives, I have told both the manufacturer and the processors and we do not take measures in a way that we categorically define ourselves according to an idea and push it to Parliament. We bring in measures that we have agreed in an open dialogue to both manufacturers and processors.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12025	Terziæ, please, dot daily. I just want arguments to take off and nothing else. It's either a strip or a follow-up. I will not allow any further discussion of the contents of the agenda item. Let's be, we respect the Rules of Procedure. Here the more correct we are means, yes. Mr. Lagumdžija is a replica. Please, within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12026	I thank the chairman, I want to work my colleague and colleague here again,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12027	Don't do it for me. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12028	I would like to say to Mr. Zorić, as prime minister, that what he has just said is very incorrect and incorrect, and that is why I am only speaking because of this because my colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, who has led this for two years and who has been given a slap by the chairman, publicly without her presence, wants to stand in her defense. This is not true what he said. I'm not responsible for this, but I find it incorrect for me to let a colleague like that in here, who was a representative and who was a minor. That's one thing. And second, even assuming that for those years and a half of the Alliance not all that was needed, it's not the subject now. Now the point is why you haven't done what we're talking about in a year and a half. Oh, you're not obvious.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12029	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. The word has a gentleman, was it a guilty report? Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12030	Ladies and gentlemen of respect, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I would like to explain these earlier proposals from the point of view that it is necessary for this law to objectively go by, this microphone does not work, is it, now, that this request goes in accordance with Article 104. I'll make that argument in the following words. This means 2 years ago we opened the Pandora's Box and...do the amendments to the Customs Act... on the very occasion of circumstances, by chairing both committees of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives and believe that it was against the protection of domestic production, with, under the influence of strong lobbys that simply try to rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means when we open this Pandora's box called – customs tariff, then we have to do it fully with all aspects. Why don't the detergent industries deserve the same attention as the primary agricultural production? Why don't we just unite in one full understanding of the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. I ask you, it would be necessary under Article 104 to 4 May simply to make efforts by the Council of Ministers and to make one whole proposal to change customs tariffs. How could you not? She's necessary and necessary. But I ask you to make this all come under the influence of public change and part of the cramping pressures... which are objective in some circumstances by agricultural production of primary producers. But that can't be enough argument to fully accept what is simply offered from the aspect of various associations, simple associations, etc. etc. So wise, cold heads make full changes in customs tariffs for the benefit of protecting domestic production, Article 104, 4 May means next month. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12031	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12032	I wanted to help Mr. Terzić's last address, when you told the chairman that this point is mandatory that we cannot discuss it and say that it is going, and that we reach a conclusion about it on the Council of Ministers' recommendation, or that Mr. Prime Minister's Chairman changes the requirement to do so by 104. So I wouldn't be politicizing around this point at all, we're on the agenda, and now I'm taking my views on this at all, and I don't want to do it personally or on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12033	I thank Mr. Zorić. The word was again sought by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12034	A brief consultation, is that it's behind the pay phone. If we pull him out today and get him 105 again. We're running for 4th, can we do that? And what can't 105?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12035	It's business business, and now it's business.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12036	So come on, if we're not going to cause any trouble, here's what I would do now, but if the fourth goes for 105. Here, you form a commission that will be with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12037	We've got the board of directors. There was an intervention, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12038	Well, that's exactly what I was about to say, that we in the established agenda are not at all discussing amendments and additions to the law, but to reach a conclusion, to allow the Council of Ministers to do this on the 4th of May of 105. So with your conclusion, let whoever needs to be included and whoever the code can be a quality request. That was the point of my proposal earlier when I was talking about the conclusion. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12039	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. One more word, please stay a second if you don't mind, Mr. Terzić. Mr. Kunić. Please focus now on these conclusions if we can get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12040	The Honorable Presidency, on this occasion, held meetings of the Assembly on several occasions of talks to avoid laws under Article 105. Here are to give arguments why you should not give this law to ask to go into that form of shortened procedure. I think these arguments are really very, very convincing. Let's not constantly do some rape inside Parliament. There's no mood to go to 104. Why, 105? Why? I agree here with Mr. Lagumdžija, completely and with Mr. Avdić. Everything and everything is being imported into this country. This is too serious to be done like this. I, and this time, make great objections to the Council of Ministers. Unserious access to these things. And it's too serious to work like this. The state institutions won't function effectively if this is how it works. They won't, and they don't stand a chance. I'm also taking the opportunity to agree with the State Service Act. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12041	Please, it's not the agenda. The debate is about the agenda and I can use it, comment and I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12042	Please, the first version was not to mention half here. It was worse. How long will this work in this country and how long will Parliament tolerate it? I therefore advocate that this law goes in accordance with Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12044	I am simply frustrated, i.e. the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, that this commission is very often bypassed. This committee has not discussed this and we want to discuss it. I don't know if this proposal is on the trail of conclusions this House 13 adopted a month ago or something. The Commission wants to discuss this. Please allow the Commission to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12045	I thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Terzić, we now have a situation, so we have a proposal working conclusion to allow 10 days for additional consultations, including the Commission competent and all other relevant entities and to find this on the agenda on 4 May, at your request and we have another conclusion, another proposal to go by the procedure of Article 104. This is a mandatory agenda item. I am in favour that if you agree to accept the request for 10 additional days, we should consider things more fully and that we have 4.5 as your request on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12046	I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12047	Thank you very much. Can we make a statement about this proposal? I'm begging you, just wait a second, please put your cards on and vote now. Who's in? You can vote. Okay. You can let go. He can't print. He says. Then write it down for me by hand. You do, you can rewrite it. Can we do it again? Thank you very much. Hold on. Please vote now. Please vote now for it. So we have a total of 31 for. From the Federation? – 23 Federation - 8 Republika Srpska. I agree that we have adopted this conclusion that this debate on the request of the Council of Ministers takes place on 4 May. Thank you very much to all the MPs. Please, we've finished discussing the agenda. The agenda has been established as proposed. Before I read the agenda as it was adopted, I would like to comment on what Mr Lagumdžija and Mr. Kunić said. No written request from the Office of the High Representative for the Intervention of this House under the law has come to this house. So it was done past communication with us and there was no reason for that kind of procedure. I agree with that, with that grade, especially what this home does so there's no law on waiting and there's no requirement for this home that some interventions haven't done. 14 In the end we have promoted as one of the key things to make decisions and laws on our own, and in this sense I will send a letter to the High Representative as the chairman of the House. Can we accept this argument? Thank you very much. I find that the 34th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 2. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Interim Report of the Vink Zorić Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Dispersion of the Proposal for a Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, the 7th floor of the 7th, we took this point down and now point 7 would be 7. Request by the Council of Ministers for Dispersion Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), 9. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers (first reading), 10. Proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 11. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering (first reading) 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading; 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Criminal Procedure Act, first reading; 14. Proposal for a conclusion of the SDS MPs' Club for the establishment of an investigative committee, to determine the truth in connection with the ESFOR's action at the palaces. We're going to work on our adopted agenda. Ad.1. The draft law amending and supplementing BiH's election law is proposed by the BiH Election Commission to the Parliamentary Assembly on 25.03. It was delivered to the deputies on 31.3. At the 32nd session, Dom adopted the motion to consider the draft law, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 15 The Constitutional and Legal Commission on 16 April established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis, and, at the request of the College of this House, the Commission considered the Law proposal as competent on the same day to speed up the procedure for the application of this law in the local elections, which will take place in the tenth month. A report from the committee in charge was sent to you on the 19th. As you can see, the committee has adopted three amendments in the plenary phase, no amendments have been submitted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law. Before anyone comes forward, I would like to say that this is in line with the House of Peoples at the 26th People's House session, and that this law should also be discussed, thus adopting this report and the bill would create full legal assumptions for the quality of the local elections in the 10th month, as well as for the application of the Law on the Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Participation of National Minorities, thus fulfilling one of the significant obligations, the accompanying commitments made to the Council of Europe. It's like notes. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want some? If he doesn't want to, I'm closing up raps and thanking everyone. Now we're going to make a statement about the proposal for this law in the first reading. Please vote now. - Thirty-two for it. From Federation 23, RS 9.. I konstatirati that this house has adopted the proposal for an election law in the first reading. I thank the MPs. The proposal of the College is to make sure that you accept this law in a second reading. I ask you to make it clear if we're going to participate, if we're going to make a statement in another reading. Please vote now. Who is it to plead today and this law in the second reading. Please vote now. - 32 for, 23 from the Federation, 9 from RS. I find that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Amendments Proposal, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. I'm sorry, we decided to make a statement in the second reading. I ask you to galsify both this law and the second reading. Vote now. - So 32 votes for it. No one against, no one abstention. 24 from the Federation, 8 from RS. I agree that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law in both readings. Thank you again to the MPs. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know, the bill was adopted in different texts in this and in the House of Peoples. We set up a joint commission for both homes to reach an agreement on identical text. You've received a report from the Joint Commission. As you have seen, the commission has not reached an agreement on the exact text of the bill. 16 In accordance with Article 100(2), I would like to report to the House that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina is considered to be rejected. In accordance with this same provision, I will inform the Council of Ministers, as the legislator of this law and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving on to the next point. Ad.3. The interim report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution in BiH, by MP Nikola Špirić Dame and gentlemen, to remind you of the proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution was delivered in parliamentary procedure on 28 May last year, was proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić. I am convinced that you are familiar with all the circumstances why this law has been in the process for so long. You have received a provisional report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as competent committees to consider this law. This report detailed the activities undertaken by the Constitutional and Legal Committee in connection with this legislative proposal. That's why there's no need for me to remind you of that. The Commission concluded that the notification of amendments tabled in the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution should be postponed. The Commission also decided to propose to Dom that, by accepting this provisional report, it would decide between the two conclusions. So let me read it. (a) To commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to establish a working group, which, respecting the proposed law of MP Nikola Špirić, and the amendments tabled, other legislative initiatives, in connection with the restitution, is meant by Mr Križanović's proposal. The results until now of a broad public debate on this subject, all written and other suggestions, comparative experiences of relevant European countries, transition countries, and in particular from the Bosnian Herzegovic environment and no later than three months, propose a solution or a new amendment to the bill or a whole new draft law. (b)To commit to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and to continue the debate on the amendments tabled on the Proposal for a Law of Representative Špirić and to report immediately to the House. Yeah, I think we have high-quality conclusions here. It's my suggestion to make a statement about them, but if you want to discuss it, I'll open it. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12048	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, before I read the conclusions offered here, I am hearing myself, so I want to point out that I am truly very pleased with the way this report was made by this committee, but I also want to say a few impressions from this report. 17 The first is to develop in this way, I do not know which way one very much to say the endorsing relationship of the Council of Ministers to this Parliament, that it took a while to pass here how many 6-7 months that the Council of Ministers on such an important law has not yet been defined. Secondly, what bothers me, too, as an agent is that our commission too had a very patient attitude towards the Council of Ministers and not to say subjective relations. I say, by respecting all the complexity of the problem treated by the Restitution Bill, I find it unacceptable that the Council of Ministers has no position on such a serious issue. So, on the question whether we need restitution and any restitution in BiH. It is also unacceptable for me that Parliament, in this case, our College and Commission, the Constitutional-Law Commission, have entered this situation, where I do not think they should be an instrument that blocks this issue, because it makes it impossible for other initiatives to come to terms and discuss them in such a way as it is done, arguing and I think it is contrary to our rules of procedure. What I wanted to point out in particular is that restitution is a problem that we have to solve. He can't be put off. It cannot be delayed because this Parliament is also being dragged into positions to be participants, let me say, in some way of dispute, if not violating human rights is what it is, I also find it important to me that without a good law on restitution we cannot carry out quality and privatisation. Because of all this, and especially given the fact that we are postponing the restitution solution, we are creating one, whether we want to admit it or not, the situation in which the restitution is already taking place in a quiet way, and before I conclude it, I am announcing one proposal, a proposal for a conclusion on a relationship that I will ultimately propose, and before I say that in terms of these proposed definitions, we will decide to support that conclusion under b) it seems to me, where it stands, that is. where we will seek and make sure that today the House decides in the sense that the Committee of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the committee responsible, as soon as possible to bring this job in accordance with our rules of procedure. And finally let me read, or suggest a concrete conclusion. This House, therefore, obliges the House of Representatives to inform the Council of Ministers within 30 days the House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly of the so far-returned Nationalised Property, with a special reference to the issues on which the property has been returned, to which institutions and individuals and the types of assets that have been returned so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12049	The chairman of the dom, gospodin Raguž, should be prepared for Mr. Belkić. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12050	So, I answered for a brief discussion after what Mr. Križanović said. So I must say that I reject the allegations that the College and the Constitutional and Legal Committee are delaying the resolution of this law. I argue that the proposal for a conclusion, in particular the proposal for a conclusion, opens the possibility of a quality solution to this extremely important issue in BiH. We have reviewed the opinion of the chairman of the Council, the OHR opinion, of all relevant international institutions, which have pointed to the necessity of looking at the overall situation and the possibility of BiH resolving this issue without re-opening the debate in such a way that this law is brought into question. Here are to give precise deadlines, within which one complete and complex legal solution should be prepared and the final deadline for the adoption of the law is given by the end of this year. I mean, just a little Mr. Križanović. Let's be consistent. The basic arguments that you are always making here are that you are not working on your mind, that you are dealing with arguments, that you are dealing with indicators and that you are not politicizing things. In this proposal, I responsibly argue here in front of this public, a synthesis of all quality approaches and proposals on the issue of restitution in BiH has been contained. And this allows for further discussion and your suggestions and suggestions, initiatives whether party or party, either individually and let us be correct about it and thus lead the debate, not to transfer the ball that someone does not want a solution now or to prolong it, etc. The ambition was and the conclusion is clear, from domestic institutions to all international comperative, so it can't be done in five days, it can be done in three months. Here, that was the proposal and I ask all MPs to focus on the proposal for conclusions contained in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12051	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Belkić, and let Mrs. Palavrić be prepared. Of course, if you're asking, you're right, I apologize, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12052	I had a replica, too. So, I will slaughter a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission replicating Mr. Križanović to the expression of the subjective relationship, therefore, the Constitutional and Ring Commission towards the Council of Ministers. It's not about Mr. Križanović being committed, it's about one serious approach from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and it's precisely because of the situation that the Proposer has brought us into. So, when an individual dares and proposes such a legal project as the Law on Restitution, it is local to have a thousand problems, so we have a thousand problems with other individual proposals without serious processing by the Council of Ministers and the institutions of the State, because the Constitutional and Legal Commission couldn't get any relevant information at all about anything when it comes to restitution. So, I ask that today, therefore, it is not about Representativeship, it is simply about the inability for the Commission to have relevant data, 19 relating to decision-making according to certain solutions when it comes to the law itself, and I am asking a really representative home that the simple thing is procedurally observed. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has proposed, gentlemen, a, please, b, people like to come out of context always a little bit, so a little bit about Ezhdawn's decision, and a little about these, a little bit about that, but come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12053	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Križanović, then Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12054	Of course I have something to replicate. You see when I said this was an inadmissible time and a long procedure in which nothing important had changed. You see, after a year almost, as the bill entered the parliamentary procedure, today is the first time a report with an incomplete report from the competent commission in front of this house, with one of the variants of just approaching some kind of working group, so that the job ends by the end of the year. Which we have guarantees that this is how it will be, with respect, re-emphasizing, and I openly say the Council of Ministers' special relationship to this matter, that today there is no commitment to it. We see from the report that at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission attended the chairmanship of several ministers, but we do not know their commitment. We don't have the Council of Ministers' position. Don't convince me that anything has changed more significantly in the past year since the law entered the parliamentary procedure. We didn't go from the starting point. Here, in that sense, I advocate once again that today our home is determined to end this procedure, the legislative procedure in accordance with our rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12055	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12056	I, indeed, cannot accept Mr Križanović's assessment of the work of the Constitutional Commission, which has indeed been dealing with the issue of restitution for a year and do not forget that all BiH and international and foreign entities have been dealing with the issue of internal debt for more than a year, and restitution is part of a segment of the issue. We also missed the situation that certain international community entities felt that there was no need to approach the issue of restitution at all and, for your information, I do not blame Mr Križanović for not having that information, but I want to tell you that the international community is now a unique subject, therefore, there is a unique view that the restitution must be carried out in this country as well as in any country that has been subject to transition and that this restitution must be completed by the end of this year 2004, that, however, the assessment that neither Mr Špirić's bill nor Mr Križanović's proposal answers any of the issues, which should be treated as issues of restitution, that 20 of this is much more complex, that the restitution issue affects a huge number of citizens who have quite conflicting interests and that none of these proposals solves any of the problems or enable it when its implementation is passed. And, if you carefully read the proposals of the Constitutional Commission's conclusions, you will see that the Council of Ministers and how it has gone into work on the issue of restitution and that in fact only proposed the formation of a team of experts, which within three months, along with the leadership of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, will also form a law on restitution and follow-up regulations, because not only is the restitution law sufficient. So, I appeal to all the MPs in this house not to take the day-to-day political needs, to do this job honestly and to define ourselves today for the conclusions of the 1 to 4 commission by defining ourselves as point a), not point b), because everything else would not be a solution to the issue of restitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12057	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12058	Dear colleagues, I am a member of this committee and immediately to say that I am one of those members of the commission who voted for the principles of this law, fully aware of all the shortcomings contained in this law, and also fully aware of the need to pass the law on restitution. As complex as the law is, I guess you don't need to talk. The very fact that the Commission voted for principles 4 to 3, says that this issue is very serious and that the Commission has very different opinions, therefore, on not the need for restitution, but for solutions, so if you want the speed to which this law should be passed or not. That is why I am somewhat surprised by the discussion of the distinguished counterpart Križanović, given that they did not have an amendment to this law, which I could conclude that they support this law or do not support it, because they have their own law. Considering, then it is quite clear why they are to conclude b). So, if this law didn't pass, their law would come on the agenda. And, of course, so that in such a way, let's say conditionally, under the supposed signs, political points. I'm not into that kind of approach. We have taken this problem very seriously, we see from the conclusion under regular number 3 that we are all proposing to enter into the work group, believing that neither association can any political party, nor, in particular, one MP, etc. propose such a complex law. So, it's very serious and we've been working in detail. I must say that we have broken all possible deadlines, but also, I think we have come to some solution, which is that by the end of the year we have this law, respecting Mr Križanović's proposal and all other initiatives, initiatives related to this law. The SDS Club will support the conclusion of 2a) and other findings of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, under a). 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12059	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word was asked for by Mr. Avdić. Are there any more reported? If not, then Mr. Zorić, then Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12060	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to put one proposal in front of this House of Representatives, saying before that we should, perhaps, have more flexibility from the aspect of the procedure and ways of considering these two laws, which were, which should have been equal both in this context and colleagues Križanović and fellow Špirić, believing that this is a problem that is systemically, simply of systemic importance for BiH. Well, there's no more important law for the country than the tarancing of the law than the restitution. This means that it is quite clear and there is no political profit for the individual, according to counterpart Novaković, let's not look for political profits in the restitution law. Which means we could have gotten out of this situation in a different way, but that's what it is. I would suggest the following. So, I'm pleading to adopt this position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission under a, with this in order to eliminate what I said before, I'm only suggesting that the last sentence be completed in the following way. It means that relevant European countries, transition countries, and especially BiH and the environment, are proposed no later than three months, the Council of Ministers proposes a law on restitution. So, to delete part of the sentence, which speaks for the solution, then the new amendments to MP Špirić's bill or a whole new one, only to have the Council of Ministers present us with a proposal for a new law on restitution. Proposal for a new law on restitution. It would be extremely unserious for the Council of Ministers to be left out of this process and we really have this proposal from one MP, according to counterpart Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12061	It's just in the conclusion, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12062	It doesn't say. I am just saying, we oblige the Council of Ministers to propose a new law on restitution, a new law on restitution, using the proposed law of colleagues Križanović and colleagues Špirić and using thematic sessions, expertise and everything else. I beg you, there you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12063	Did you ask Mr. Križanović for a line or a word? You're not. Then Mr. Zorić answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12064	Before I say anything about this report, I'll ask the chairman or the tech. Do we imagine that we can turn on the microphone here or is someone else doing it? Someone else is working. I welcome and congratulate the efforts made by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, especially looking here at dates 26.6., 28.7, 3.9., 1.10., 6.11., 30.1., 29.3. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as it should be, has taken this subject seriously and with the attention it deserves from a law like this. On behalf of the HDZ-Democracy Club, I say that we will support the proposed conclusions from 1 to 4, by supporting a 2nd) and I think that Mr Avdić, when he was once again read by my predecessor, because here he writes, obliges the Council of Ministers to form a working group, I absolutely support that the representatives of this Parliament, i.e. The constitutional-legal commissions get into it and I pray, and I see that most of them will support what the rest of my colleagues have said, that we are not making any small political gain out of this, because I understand the opposition that if she, if a bad law or a high law is made, might have profited slightly by attacking the Council of Ministers, or I don't know the parliamentary majority, but I don't think it's even an opposition in the interest, let's give around this law that we all unite ourselves, make as much quality of the law as possible, so if this deadline gets through, I'll be happy, if the law gets better, rather than to bring it forward, so it was the end of 2004 that now seems very far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12065	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Živković, well sir, I've already announced him, Mr. Križanović's replica, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12066	In short, there are political points to the SDP, i.e. to me as a proposer. I want, indeed, to be honest, and if I have been well heard and if you understand me correctly, my basic message regarding this bill is, in slowness and lack of stance in BiH on the issue of restitution. Secondly, I repeat that, no matter how much anyone liked it in that we spent a year in this way, one intense way, one passive relationship with this is simply blocking other initiatives, no matter who they came from. Incidentally, we also have, for more than 7-8 months, that law has been passed to the BiH Parlametary Assembly and because of this relationship between the Council of Ministers and the work of our commission, we simply do not, we do not give other initiatives a chance to express their stance on restitution. That's it. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12067	Thank you. Mr. Živković has the word. Please give the word, please get the word Mr. Živković. Three times a man gets up, I want to be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12068	I didn't mention the SDP once, and it seems to me, the thought was, in fact, that I said that I understood that the opposition would probably collect small points, if the law was passed in haste and bad law. Well, I didn't mean either Mr. Križanović's debate or the SDP. I didn't even mention the SDP. Well, then you have to tell who's replicating it. There was a replica behind me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12069	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Živković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12070	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, from this whole discussion, it seems a little unfortunate to me that this point today has come to the agenda, given that the real and main pronoun today is not here to say its own opinion on it, so there has been a lot of mention of his name. He is not here right now, but, since the SNSD Club also supports the proposal submitted by Mr Špirić in October of last year, we feel that we should say something on his behalf, as well as on behalf of the SNSD Club. No Niko has defended the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal for this law, and don't let us, as MPs, argue and dispute the possibility of submitting a bill, no matter how complex it is. Do not put ourselves out of work, and in this assembly we have said several times that we have a slow path to reform, that it is a narrow throat in the Council of Ministers and that the Parliamentary Assembly should show and show that it is on its way to European reforms alone with its initiative. Whether buying petty political problems, if you let the Council of Ministers and our constitutional and legal commission work for eight months. Is this buying petty political problems? Why don't we just be out here and be honest and say who's arguing, and why isn't this law passed? How long does it take for you from the SDA or the SDS to pass some law? Do we have enough time to do that in this country? I believe that both the SNSD and the Club will support the conclusions, in particular the conclusion, i.e. the conclusions below 2b) and the third conclusion, if in conclusion b.2. Put in a report not immediately to the House, but to the home in a month. In a month's time, the Council of Ministers may be obliged to form a commission, within a month the Council of Ministers may say so and that this parliament declares itself to the amendments in a month's time. Whether a new law will follow, we do not dispute, but we dispute the way and the time and the delay that is now being done. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12071	Thank you, Dr. Živković. Mr. Novaković reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12072	Well, I'm surprised my colleague Živković didn't hear me say I was into the law. So, I think, then, if I said I was in favor of the law, it doesn't say that I wasn't to be passed and that there was no courage to be brought and that's not what it was about, Mr. Živković, it's exactly who was for this law and who wasn't for this law, but it doesn't matter. And it doesn't matter because it's a serious law to now watch who was in favour, and who's against it, but speaking of which, I have to say that the bill promoter wasn't on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Not once. I guess that says how interested he was in the law he proposed. But we have, however, acted seriously under the law, keeping in mind what kind of law it is. So please don't go this way. There is one serious proposal, there is no problem with us saying this under b) so that the Constitutional and Legal Commission ends this law and brings it in as it brings it. But then it will be responsible in this case for those who insisted that it be that way, and we think it should be brought in and we insisted that the shorter deadlines be. I'm falling into those who insist on it for three months, and no later than the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12073	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Gligorić, so Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12074	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest, on behalf of the Club, that we stay on, practically to the Constitutional-Legal Commission proposal, which, by the way, has done a lot of work, which, by the way, really entered into the essence of the problem itself and I think that possible solutions, which the Constitutional-Legal Commission proposes should be accepted. I would like to say that Mr Špirić was once on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as the legislator of this law and that at the same time the Commission concluded that it was necessary to include the Council of Ministers. I don't want to criticize them, but they could really get involved, and this is now an opportunity that the Constitutional and Legal Commission proposes that in its full capacity, using services and other services from the World Bank, the IMF and other associations, which have the capacity and capacity to help us reach an optimal legal solution within this left-over deadline, which the Commission is proposing is, one reasonable solution and I think it should certainly be accepted. The Constitutional and Legal Commission also had a public debate, we were leading to this issue, because in the meantime there were problems with different associations, which refer to resolved solutions, in one way or another, so I think there is a possibility that the issue could be resolved and that people would not be damaged by this bill. That is why I think it would be good for this proposal of the Constitutional and Legal 25 Commission to be accepted, perhaps with the correction spoken by MP Dr Avdić, in the sense that the Council of Ministers is now committed, because in this process, they were in some way not as strongly involved as objectively should have been and that we can resolve this issue, since it is one of the most expensive and complex laws. We agreed on the principles of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that they are acceptable and I think that here the position and the opposition has also made clear in their political programmes that what is private property, what is illegally taken away, should be returned and that is not the problem and should not be criticised by Mr Špirić who suggested it. He used his legitimate right and how much it was a solution, which he first offered was actually good, we see that it was a starting point, which will slowly change and eventually at the Council of Ministers, which may, in essence, change this law. In this way, we will come up with a quality solution, while at the same time making sure that BiH would not so financially collapse and that the system institutions would be virtually disabled in their work. We should take care of all this, and therefore I think that this is one, indeed, correct solution by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and Mr Ćeman, also from his aging, has made a great contribution, along with all the members of the Commission, so it would be good for us to support it and thus try to find this solution within the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12075	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12076	So let me rephrase to those who think this job can be done in a month. They either don't know or they don't want to know that we have a situation where housing rights, which would be subject to restitution in the RS, were sold, bought, in the Federation, that's not the case. That we have a situation to cover the restitution of the property for which an unfair fee has been paid. Who will assess the fair fee of 60 years or 45 years ago compared to today. A lot of other problems in that law. So, I think we really need to be serious and be aware that in a month's time, this job cannot be done, in addition to saying again, the proposal under a) and it has been carried out by the Council of Ministers, and it is confirmed in the proposal of the 3rd conclusion that it has proposed that everyone participates in this and I think that, indeed, it is inconclusive only for the criticism of the Council of Ministers to speak, I am not a Council of Ministers' lawyer, nor do I want to be, but it has been included and it has immediately proposed a solution to form a special, special commission of experts, which will make a concrete law, and I am asking you not to be more concerned with this than we have to, to plead for point a) when it comes to point 2 and to support the conclusions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The sooner we do that, the sooner the commission of experts will do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12077	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković has the word. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12078	Just in short, so we don't think we're insecure about what we're talking about in a month, because you're forgetting the eight months before that. We agreed here it was a tough law, but we don't have time to stall. I have the impression that during some pre-election period of municipal elections, he wants to delay solving difficult problems. In this country, we cannot solve problems in this way. Either we solve them or we don't solve them, and I don't say stall them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12079	The word was asked for by Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12080	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for this little absence at the beginning of this item of the agenda, but I am informed, namely that some colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Committee have replaced me and made some opening remarks about this item of the agenda, although I consider it to be a factual, factual state that we have enough for a decision to come up with today, contained in the report itself. I want to say, however, very briefly the following. It was not about this politicisation, each, at least when it comes to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, took over that part of responsibility, which is understood and should be understood, supporting one or another solution, which is legal nature, but also has its political weight. So no one has even run away from the political responsibility of that kind, nor has timed it, at least I haven't felt that kind of atmosphere in the Constitutional and Legal Commission that we're going to get into this process before the elections, which is likely to follow, which is what the municipal elections mean, because we've been doing this for almost a year and the reasons why we've been dealing with this issue for so long is exactly the weight of issues and problems, and in no case of political calculations, especially not pre-election. But I look forward to it here, after all, to the fact that this isn't a day-to-day political issue. It's about one system law, which was supposed to be, that God was passed, but as part of the privatisation law package a few years ago, but what's there. So, as a member of the Commission, I am, in some way, quite convinced that the only solution that could, therefore, be without unnecessary politicisation, but with as many senses of justice, justice, correctness, reality and protection of rights and the interest of all categories to which this law will apply, therefore, that it is necessary to form a multidisciplinary one, so to put it inter-resort, so here it turns out here and the international, will turn out to be one working group that should propose a realistic solution. A month isn't enough time. As far as I'm concerned, I've been willing to argue about this bill before, but I have respected the rights and arguments of others and within the Commission, precisely because of the weight of this issue, that it needs to be returned in one systematic way, which, of course, will consider everything that has happened within this constitutional-legal commission, and if you will in the past Malta not these ten or twelve years, because 27 this issue has not been since yesterday. This is a 12 - 13 - year - old question. To say the least, I suggest that the chairman, however, approaches the plea, but when he at least puts point 2 of the proposal for a statement, it is important to know that there are two solutions here within point 2a. It is one thing to oblige the Council of Ministers to form a working group, which would eventually build up the existing Proposal for the Law of Mr Šprić through amendments that someone who was authorised to invest subsequently, or, in turn, the ato is now a crucial new bill, which would mean that we would suspend the actual procedure parliamentaryly related to the proposal of counterpart Špirić. And, finally, let me just say briefly, it is true that fellow Špirić as a legislator of the law was present, it seems to me at one or two sessions, and this is to urge the Commission to respond in the capacity of the legislator to questions which were not all nor possible during that period, nor, in principle, it seems possible to give all answers to any open questions as to how legal, political, moral and whatever nature you want, when this issue is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12081	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Avdić, then to Mr. Križanović, I think it will be useful. Please take a closer look at the second conclusion and let us appreciate, indeed, one of the most qualitative conclusions I've seen since the ustavno-pravni Law that suggested it. She also respected all your arguments to Mr. Križanović and what Mr. Avdić is saying. The Council of Ministers will decide whether it will be a new law. He's got that option open here. Experts and everyone, it's all in there. Well, let me think I really don't know. Here's my word, but if it's analyzed, it's not Mr. Križanović's initiative that's blocked, but she's on the table in front of this task force, as well as everything we've been through, and we haven't wasted our time. It could be the form of a new law, when they look at all the elements, so they decide to form, we don't limit them. Indeed, I think it is really correct, analytically prepared and includes all entities that can competently contribute to the adoption of the law, but that the law is realistic and that it reflects the overall possibilities of BiH. I'm asking you, here, to really respect this argument. I don't deny the word, but here's the real deal. Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12082	Just to clarify this proposal of yours that corresponds to the contradictions Mr. Ćeman was talking about. We are simply trying in a political sense to respect both what has been done by colleagues Križanović and from the counterpart Špirić, who has also proposed one law and the other. So I'd read this point 2 one more time. 28 Mandatory by the Council of Ministers of BiH, to form a working group, which will respect the proposed law of MP Nikola Špirić, the amendments and other legislative initiatives put forward in relation to the restitution (proposed by Joza Križanović MPs), the results of an extensive discussion so far on this subject, all written and other suggestions, the comparative experience of relevant European countries, transition countries, and in particular from BiH and the environment, shall, within three months, submit to the preliminary procedure of the restitution law, and this is the formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12083	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12084	I'll, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I think this is very important. I have the impression that we've mixed up two questions. One question is necessity, need, etc. the adoption of a restitution law, and the second is purely the procedural nulars of the identification of this home, i.e. the commission in a concrete proposal. Therefore, conclusion 2 and if we accept it, it will be able to go in a whole new sense. Bringing up a new proposal, which has nothing to do with the bill we're discussing. Therefore, I reiterate myself, I find it very correct that we should specifically determine ourselves on a concrete bill. What fate will follow further from the next initiatives of the Council of Ministers, individual representatives, etc. It's another thing, but let's not pull this long, I think we're blocking other initiatives again. Here it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12085	I thank and conclude the debate. We don't say anything about the law today. On the agenda is the provisional report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which writes nicely and I ask you to make your statement on the Commission's report. We have a variant, we will first declare the variant under 2a), and then we will see depending on the results of the vote and on the variant, so please now declare the provisional report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution in BiH. Please vote now. Well, I said it. We'll do it again now. So, first, we declare the variant 2a. Please vote now. So we have 29 for, 21 from the Federation, and 8 from the RS. I agree that the House of Representatives accepted the provisional report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on the Restitution of BiH, the proposing representative of Mr Nikola Špirić, with a resolution of 2.a. Thank you very much. 29 We had another proposal for conclusions submitted by Mr Križanović. I'll read it, say college opinion. So, Mr. Križanović suggested that the Council of Ministers be bound to inform this house within 30 days of returning the nationalised property, with a special reference to the following: On what basis has this property been returned? What institutions and individuals and what kind of assets were they? Did I read it correctly? Thank you very much. We believe that this was not directly related to this item of the agenda that the paedicator of the conclusion should run as a part of the agenda, but if he insists, that is the opinion of the College. Here's what I'm obliged to say. Then I'll put this conclusion to the statement. Who's to accept this conclusion? Please state the proposal for Mr Križanović's conclusion. Vote now. I find that 16 for – 11 from the Federation of RS 5. He's got most of it. It's a conclusion. We can conclude completely, but the House of Representatives adopted this proposed conclusion. Does anyone want to do it again, insists on repeating their votes? We vote, sir, only we can, so we vote again. Please state the conclusion Mr. Jozo Križanović made. Please vote now. I find the House of Representatives with 17 votes to – 10 against – 5 abstentions. With 12 from the Federation and 5 from RS for the adoption of a conclusion submitted by Mr Jozo Križanović. Thank you. Ad.4. A request by MP Vink Zorić to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Law on Use to protect the name of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for a Law with a request for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The delivery is April 13th in the procedure. The draft law was sent to lawmakers on 16 this month. Does Mr. Zorić want to explain himself to the House? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12086	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed this law and this procedure for one reason, and this is that we were, that I was one of the members of the Joint Committee for the Consentation of this same law. I have almost all written down what we have adopted in this constituency, and only from the amendments that we have accepted, and they are contained in Article 1 of this law, which I propose to this home, have reduced some 30 qualifications, which have bothered MPs from the House of Peoples, and according to their terms, in an oral conversation after the Commission, they have said that these definitions would be acceptable to them. And for that reason alone, it is proposed to be in accordance with Article 105, not in regular procedure or in short, because we accepted this text. I allow the House of Peoples to decide that they have a shortened or regular procedure, but that our home, indeed, has no need, because if we look at what text we adopt proposed by the Council of Ministers and which amendments, we will see that nothing more contained here, however, is contained in this amendment and supplemental. If it's a problem, here's a statement from a colleague, because there were some dilemmas in the enlarged college, no matter what, we're not going to give up one of these important laws, that we're going to go through a different procedure, but, look, I'm asking my colleagues and the representatives of the clubs to plead. I would like to be honest with you to support this law, and if we don't dispute, you've seen under point 2 that we haven't had a positive report from the Joint Commission, so maybe they'll come back in a position to agree not to make it difficult or to cut deadlines. I don't think the law is defiant, nor do we need to go with any other procedure except 105, but I say as a proposal I will accept the opinion of the majority of this house. Here, I'd like my colleagues to come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12087	I thank Mr. Zorić for this explanation. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Ms. Milićević, then Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12088	Dear President, dear colleagues, I would like to tell you by reading this proposal that Mr Zorić has submitted and in our conversation with him we understand the need for a shorter period, but we are also asking him for understanding, that it could only be so easy to come to a solution under this law that we would have a positive report from the Commission today, so we believe that it is much wiser and more effective, we hope that if Mr Zorić proposes procedure 104, which will allow us to reach a positive solution within a short period of time. I'm saying this on behalf of my colleagues, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12089	I thank Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12090	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to suggest that it may be the most meaningful to go towards Article 104. So, the shortened procedure, and not by Article 105, means by emergency procedure, although Mr Zorić has quite correctly explained the whole procedure, which has preceded the law and the Commission, which had a common consensus and that, in practice, those remarks put by the Commission, were also excluded in the new amendment and the addition of the law, but because of our 31 principles in Prlament, when we made it clear that we should really go according to the regular procedure or the shortened procedure, it would also be good in this case to enable this too because of the principle and consistency of the Parliament itself which has spoken about this issue. I would ask Mr Zorić to have an understanding of this and that within this deadline, we will quickly and in a brief procedure resolve and pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12091	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word has Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12092	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to join the proposals that we are still considering this law in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 104 that I do not repeat the argument. Given the content of the law, even if you will, although all the laws are important, I don't think we're going to lose something important in these 15-20 days, so here, I appeal to my colleague Zorić to understand these arguments, which are already given, so, at 104, and I hope that we will end this in a very relative time and that at least what the Commission has come to, therefore, the Conciliation Commission will assist in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12093	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Mr. Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12094	So I see that my request will not be granted to the majority of this House, I thank my colleagues and, of course, I will not be malicious under the law and give up on it, but here I am changing the request under Article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12095	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić, and I propose, then that would be a statement on the procedure under Article 104. I propose that the House be made known at the request of MP Vink Zorić for the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Use be protected by the name of BiH, by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously with 32 votes – 23 from the Federation – 9 from the RS accepted Mr Vink Zorić's request to consider the Proposal for this law, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić for this approach and procedure. 32 Moving to point 5. Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, in accordance with Article 105. The Proposer is the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary procedure was adopted on 7 April. He was delivered to the MPs on 14th. As we have seen from the reasoning, it is about the transfer of the power of movement and the residence of foreigners, and the creation of a policy of immigration and asylum in BiH from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to the Ministry of Security, which is otherwise regulated by the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you. I propose that we make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, considering this bill, in accordance with Article 105. First we vote on the procedure request. Please state the request of the Council of Ministers concerning Article 105. Rules of Procedure and vote now. So, with 26 votes for – no one against – 4 glares. From Federation 21 – RS 5.. I konstatirati that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for Procedure under Article 105. I'm opening a debate about this law now. Anybody want some? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I propose that the House of Representatives be declared on the very proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration. Please prepare to vote. When I say vote now, wait a second and press the button for which you define yourself. So, please state the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration. Vote now. So, with 32 votes to go. No one's against and no one's coerced. 23 from the Federation, 9 from the RS. I find that the Parliamentary House of the Parlmentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration. I thank all the MPs. We're moving on to point six. Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Statistics of BiH, also in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill were delivered to us on 14 April. He's been directed to you for 16 years. It is a law, which was provisionally declared by the High Representative. So we accept it to open up the possibility of a possible debate and change later. Please state the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Statistics of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. 33 Please vote now. So, with 26 votes for - no one against – six abstentions. 21 from the Federation for – 5 from RS for. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives has accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on statistics on BiH, in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12096	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I am, of course, in order for us to confirm this law, but I would just like to remind you that we are in a timely discussion of another law, which has also been declared by the High Representative, and the Assembly has also given the initiative to consider, let me say, arrangements with the people of the Office of the High Representative's legal department on the form of publication of these laws. I again appeal to the College of the House to get in touch, let's say with the OHR that, indeed, we are not publishing after the integrated text of the law, but to see that form, which can be done by the Act of Confirmation of the Law, etc. It's a technical question, but I don't think it's irrelevant in the extreme case that we don't waste paper and we don't print official papers that thick, and whoever is serving, basically serves every day knows that it can be a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12097	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The college will appreciate this suggestion. I'm opening a debate on this law. If there are no reports, I would like to conclude the debate and suggest that we make a statement on the BiH Statistics Bill proposal. Please vote now. Okay. I find that with 29 votes, no one against, four abstentions. Have you seen how many from the Federation? Can you tell me by entities what it is? 20 from the Federation, 9 from Republika Srpska. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives adopted the bill on the Proposal for a Law on Statistics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Excuse me. Thank you very much. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. That's Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers for decomposition Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill was submitted on 9 April. He was sent to the MPs on the 13th. Proposer of the Council of Ministers shall request that the draft law be considered in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a debate on this request. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask you to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for this law under Article 104. 34 Please vote now. So I find that the 34-vote House of Representatives for, no one against, no one abstention has unanimously adopted the Council of Ministers' request that the draft Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Customs Policy be considered under Article 104. Thank you. I would like to inform the representatives that, due to the establishment of a joint commission to oversee the work of intelligence services of the talks that the club heads will have to do with the laws on electricity and with the representatives of USEID and the other College has set, with agreement with the club heads on the extended college break from 12, 30 to 2 hours. We've got 20 minutes left now. Do you want to do this SIP Act, that at 12.30 we need to break up. Okay. Thank you very much. Moving to point 8. That's Ad.8. The proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection in the First Reading of the Bill was sent to you on 15 last month at the 32nd session. 31.3. The House adopted a request for consideration pursuant to Article 104. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee gave its opinion 31.3. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy is in charge. The committee's report was sent to you on 20th of this month. The committee in charge adopted six amendments. In the plenary phase of the amendment, Mr Petar Kunić and Mrs Ljiljana Milićević submitted an invitation to Article 94(a). this Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Palavrić answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12098	My discussion, no matter what I say about principles, so first reading must be touched, the amendments tabled must be touched, because these are principles. I therefore think that these amendments cannot be treated in accordance with Article 94(3), since the Commission had such an amendment at its meeting, so since the Commission had an amendment to this content at its meeting and that Mr Branko Zrno had withdrawn his amendment. So it's not about any new aspects. We also had a letter from the OHR on the tables when we came to the Commission. So I suggest that the College declares that there are no new amendments to this law. Otherwise, the SDA supports the principles of the Law with the Commission's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12099	I thank Mrs. Palavrić, but I have already said that the amendments are submitted according to which article. Mrs. Milićević. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12100	Since it is not an amendment phase, Mrs. Palavrić touched the amendment, I would like to say that exactly the new moment is what is beautifully written in the explanation of the amendment. Because the letter from the OHR and this knowledge we found out only later. We weren't on the committee. Therefore, I ask to be respected that there is a basis for these amendments. No, she said she didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12101	Who wants another word? The replica of Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12102	I apologize to my esteemed colleague, Milićević. Article 94(3) states that amendments can only be applied where they relate to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account. So not every representative, but the Commission. And the Commission for Security and Defence Policy has taken into account such an amendment and the applicant has given up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12103	The replica of Mrs. Milićević. They're looking for a word, Mr. Belkić. Here I am really sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12104	Look. I appreciate the work of the Commission and I have the knowledge that the Commission has been sitting and working on this for a long time. However, now that such a situation is to ask my colleagues from the Commission did they look at the information on the level of Agency establishment achieved? Did they see the situation in our budget? Why did they forget the last 15 days? Why don't they tell us how much this solution is gonna cost us now? How much do we give for renting space without a solution to this space? It's not said here that this agency, it's nice even in the explanation of the amendments, won't be in Sarajevo, but we want to insist on finally getting rid of that space, that we have a solution, not to pay the rent, and then grab our heads when we're short of money. It is well explained that the SIP has funding problems, that the question is how will you be able to hire the necessary number of workers to work. And my knowledge suggests that in our current state, we need to give over half a million marks just to rent space here, which is not a permanent solution. That's what we're talking about, Mrs. Palavrić, and the amendment proposal is exactly what we're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12105	Thank you. Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Gligorić. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12106	I'm sorry, I guess this application doesn't work. So excuse me for saying so, but you said as the chairman of this house that there are two amendments and for me it's quite clear. So the College gave some interpretation and established validity. Then why the debate? As far as the Party for BiH is concerned, we will therefore support the project legally with the report and please move on to amendments. Don't waste your time. It's clear everything anyone thinks about this law, it's clear everything anyone thinks about this law. Let's make a statement. Don't let us keep something that can't be saved if we can't keep it. Let's face it, see where we are and what we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12107	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12108	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Belkić is absolutely right. That's a question we've definitely solved before. I suggest that we cross over, accept this, and move on to another reading and make a statement practically about the amendments, but of course in other times. At the same time, I think all of these conditions have been met and it's too much to say now that special conditions have been obtained, and even since the College has put it in place, I apologize, so it would be good to definitely solve it. There are two amendments for us to finish our first reading and leave a statement in the second reading for the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12109	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12110	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I won't take much time. I think these things are perfectly clear and I want you as a member of the College because I am the vice-president, so I publicly say what my position is when it comes to these amendments. So, Mrs. Palavrić talked about it. All these things that are being said today, including the letter mentioned, including the amendment, were all known to the Commission, and this is why we stayed all day and worked at the Commission's session. Therefore, this is not about any new aspects or things that have not been known to the Commission. So the Commission knew all this. Even before we discussed the Law, we discussed information about activities related to the establishment of the CIPS, Mrs Milićević, as a part of the agenda, that you have that information, because I am designated as a rapporteur in front of the Commission, is in front of this house and in this capacity here and in this capacity, of course I am reporting. 37 Therefore, I consider as a member of the College that the conditions for accepting these amendments are not met or are considered to be amendments within the meaning of Article 94 of our 3rd subparagraph, as is called for by the Proposer of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12111	I thank Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12112	I think we're going the wrong way with the debate. Look, we have a law today in our first reading. Whether this amendment has been submitted in the way the Rules of Procedure has said or not, we will discuss it when we speak in the second reading and on these amendments. So today we don't decide whether it's filed or not in a business way. I'm asking you really not to waste any time. There's no need to open that question, because if we're going to open it, then there's a lot of us to say. But at this stage, I don't think that's what we should say, but we should leave it for that stage when business is defined. It's not true that the seat is a principle. That's not the principle, that's not the principle on which the law rests. It's just one provision. The promoter made it clear: legality and efficiency and protection. These are the principles that the Proposer believes is resting on them this law and I beg you, we plead on these principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12113	Anybody else want one?? Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12114	I'm sorry, just for a minute. I'm just afraid that this story doesn't go to what Mr. Henfris also drew our attention Monday when we had a meeting with the gentleman who's here in front of the European Commission. When he said that it was actually seen here that we spend the most on seats. I think our discussions are spent most on seats. Here, gentlemen, in the amendment and in this manner of resolution, means if we don't write the seat, they say the Council of Ministers will determine the seat. We're going to run the situations that have been happening both with the Electricity Act and with this and with some future laws. So I'm asking you to do as Mr. Raguž said we have an amendment, and the amendment will be declared at the next session in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12115	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. I propose that we make a statement on the proposal for principles in first reading means, the proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigations and Protection. 38 Please plead. Vote now. With 31 for, no one against, 2 abstentions, 21 from the Federation, 10 from RS. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law on the state investigation and protection agency in the first reading. Is there any willingness to work in another reading today? I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be working in another reading. That's my position as chairman. I want to make it public here. I mean, it's an amendment phase. The amendments are on the table. We can make a statement and finish another reading. If there's no readiness, I won't force it. But I'm talking. It's gone. Okay. Thank you. I konstatirati once again that the House of Representatives has passed the bill on the state investigation and protection agency in the first reading. Thank you very much. I thank the MPs. I suggest we do this now, do you want to finish this law too? Thank you. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers first reads You received a law on 15.3. The Council of Ministers requested 104. Business procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional-ustavno-pravni Court was given to you by 31.3. The Commission's report on 20th and the Commission adopted 10 amendments. In the plenary phase, we didn't get an amendment to the bill. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12116	I would like to say only one thing here that I, here, is a report on whether the committee is competent and I am a member of that committee, I have been harassed, and perhaps it could have been recorded in the report, why OHR and other representatives of the international community often return to the commission, following the amendments adopted to re-produce and compromise the requirements of international institutions, in the first row of the OHR. Of course, I accept the OHR's opinion, but I've expressed some regret why they didn't respond, because it's not true that we had that letter when we read, because we got a bunch of amendments. Why didn't she react when Mr. Zrn's amendment was? I have to say it now, because I was speaking at this point in the agenda. We also had agenda points on commission 39. I used to say that when there was a proposal in police officers' law. That's what I'll say when there's a second reading on the SIP Act. However, it is not correct not to warn the commission if it is already being warned by every little thing that has not been warned, so you gentlemen have received a letter today, so we cannot read the mail we receive on the bench so quickly. Why didn't they warn us that Mr. Zrn's amendment was also acceptable, although it was proposed by the OHR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12117	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who wants to move on? If no one wants me to conclude the debate on the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers in the first reading, and I ask the House to make a statement on the bill in the first reading. Please vote now. With 32 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, 23 from the Federation, 9 from the RS, I find that the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers in the first reading. Can we move on to another reading? Thank you very much. Please state who is in favor of pleading for the vote and in the second reading, the statement and in the second reading? Please vote now. With 31 votes for, no one against, one abstention, 23 from the Federation, 8 from the RS, I find that the House of Representatives has accepted the request to make a statement on this law and in the second reading. Now I ask you to plead with me on this law in the second reading. Please vote now. With 33 for, no one against, 1 abstention, 23 for the Federation, 7 from the RS, I find that the House of Representatives passed a bill on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers in both readings. I thank you. I'm setting a break until 2:00, and I'm asking you to respect your time. You've got plenty of time. Thank you very much. 40 We move to the point of the 10th agenda. [[PAUZA]] That's Ad.10. The proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading of the bill was sent to you on 15.3. At its 32nd session, the House adopted a request by the Council for a procedure under Article 104. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been given 31.3. She is also the authority of her report, which was sent to you on 19.4. There were no amendments to the bill at the commission stage either. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Is there anyone here to discuss this? He's not answering. Thank you. We move to a statement on the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please vote now. So 25 voted. No Niko against, no one abstention, 16 from the Federation, 9 from the RS. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on witness protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we make it clear if we're going to go to a statement today and in another reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement about this law in the second reading? Vote now. Thank you. I konstatirati that with 26 votes for, no one against, no one abstention with the required entity majority of the House of Representatives has decided to make a statement in the second reading of the proposal for this law. I ask the MPs to declare themselves in their second reading on the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote now. I find that with 26 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstentions and with the necessary entity majority, and in a second reading, the Pres Long Law on the Witness Protection Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina was passed. I thank the MPs for their willingness to do this kind of work on this bill. We're going to the 11th point. That's Ad.11. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering (first reading) And this bill was sent to you on 16.3. Procedures were adopted by this home at the 33rd session under Article 104. The opinion of the ustavno-pavne-Spain as competent was sent to us on 19 April. The committee adopted four amendments, and there were no amendments in the plenary phase. 41 I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports for discussion, I would like to conclude the debate and suggest that we make a statement in our first reading of the Bill on the Prevention of Money Laundering. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. So with 27 votes for, without, without, abstention, the required entity majority, the House of Representatives adopted the first reading of the bill on the prevention of money laundering. Can we go to another reading? Thank you very much. I suggest we get to the bottom of this. I ask the MPs to state whether we are in favour of making a statement in the second reading on the proposal for this law. Please, please. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I have to do first. I've got to give myself criticism, and then I've got to give it to everyone else, which maybe we haven't been following this law on time. I'm going to be honest, so I'm going to say that I expected it to be more natural if it were a competent commission, a certain financial committee, not a constitutional-legal commission, so as a member of the commission I was expecting, maybe it would be in the competent commission, so that they could talk about these things. I notice here some things that have already shown quite a lot in the implementation of similar decisions or entity-level orders create big problems in life. I will only set an example in Article 2(3) where it says - the transaction involves opening bank accounts, laying down funds. So every deposit of money on the account is considered a transaction. Now we have concrete examples that commercial companies, especially larger trading houses that have more traffic, almost break through these 30,000-mile limits daily, not immediately mentioning item 4 which defines that they are subject to and related transactions, means that less than 30,000 are individually, but when they are summed up in an undefined period of time they break through 30 thousand marks, so they are also considered suspicious. So I suggest that, here we adopt the first reading, to leave the second reading for the next session, and to extend the next seven days of the amendment phase where we might be able to fix these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12119	I thank Mr. Andrić. Anybody else want to talk about this? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12120	Thank you. Just this topic with my colleague, Adrić, I had a little talk before this break, and in the meantime I was thinking about the subject. At first glance this remark is on the spot, although when taken from the other side it makes sense to consider it a transaction and 42 lays so here as the funds here stand on the bank account etc., because essentially, although this is a perfectly normal business that should be considered, but if the intention of law is to prevent money laundering indeed, it may happen that, I say on the way from the cash register to the bank, this cavity is being misused. It could happen. Now, it makes sense, and I just called to say it makes sense that maybe we should just postpone this debate to see this moment that we're not at the same time making it difficult to function normally, so here's the deposit of money that, let's say in principle shouldn't be controversial, but we also have to find mechanisms that just might mean abuse. Therefore, it takes extra time to look at this, and colleague Andrić and all of us, of course, remains the time to follow in time the procedure stage and intervene. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12121	Anybody else want some? So we have the possibility now, we passed the law in the first reading to go to the plea, whether we will go today and in the second reading. To go according to normal procedure to the next session in the second reading and third thing, it is a proposal here that is in a certain way articulated by Mr Andrić and Ćeman to determine additional time, and as far as I know by the Rules of Procedure, it would require a new report from the Commission. Here's Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12122	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so we now have a situation here that we need to make indisputable. I think here is the commission, so the man who runs the commission confirmed what the MP was talking about, so I think that I should give it some extra time to make a new report, and this question is being considered once more in the commission, but I ask you, please make sure that it should be the 4th session here at the latest, because it is one of the sets of laws that belong to that group of 16 conditions that the EU has set for us. Can you make us a new report by 4:00? If you can put it in session 4, second statement and you can provide us with a new report. Well, that'd be nice for me, then. So there's no further delay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12123	Anybody else want some? Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12124	It is therefore no limit of 30,000 marks. So you can deposit the money and 50 and 100 thousand marks if you have proof that it's pure money. So it's simple, it is. So this law is not at all controversial and it is, this law is respected throughout Europe, I don't know about 43 Americas, but it's just like this one. So the one who brings in from the store what Mr. Andrić and Mr. Ćeman are saying. Let's say 35,000 marks have confirmation, which is exactly what he's bringing those 35,000 marks on. So there's no problem, there's really no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12125	I thank Mr. Potočnik. As far as I can tell, if you're okay with it, since the president of the board of directors and one of the members here had an exposure. I can accept the variant to give an additional, additional opportunity for a new report to the commission, but to keep it on, in a second reading at a 4.5 session, as would otherwise be. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12126	That's exactly what I wanted to say. We do have an assessment that the law should be passed as soon as possible. It's not a dispute. But you need to pay attention to this matter. Perhaps in the end this clarification will be such that there will be no need to change anything, but to further study it we have the possibility, the 30th has the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Give according to that member who says you can give some instructions by the House for a new report focusing on this issue and we'll do it on May 30th for the 4th when there's a session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12127	Thank you. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Article 95(3), The Rules of Procedures give guidance to the Commission which allows it to draw up an additional report and to have that report at the next session of the 4th and to have the law in the second reading at that time. Can we accept this conclusion? Should we plead? We do. Would you please make your point on this proposal for a conclusion? Who's in? Vote. I find that the Zastupniki are home to 28 votes in favour of, 1 against, 3 abstentions, 18 Federations, 9 RS accepted this proposal to conclude that we give an additional report to the competent commission and that in the second reading we have this law at the next session 4.5. Thank you very much. We're going to the 12th point. That's Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) This law has also been sent to you on 15.3. At the 32nd session, we adopted the procedure under Article 104. The jurisdiction was constitutionally-ustavno-pravni. Her report came back to 19. The Commission supported the law in the proposed text and no amendments were submitted at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you. 44 Please state the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please vote now. I agree that with 31 votes for, without, without abstention and with enough entity majority, we adopted the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we make it clear whether or not we're going to commit ourselves in another reading. Please plead. Vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously accepted this request to declare this law in the second reading, and I ask the representatives to declare themselves in the second reading of the Amendment Law and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote now. I agree that with 29 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, 20 Federations, 9 RS, we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both readings, and I thank the MPs. We're going to the 13th point, that's Ad.13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina The proposal for a Council of Ministers Law has provided us 12. 3. It was sent to you on 15.3. At the 32nd session, we decided on a procedure under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge. We received the report on 19.3 and the committee in charge supported this law in the proposed text. Otherwise, there were no amendments at the commission stage either. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make clear on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please vote now. With 30 votes in favour, without opposition and without abstention, I agree that we unanimously adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I suggest we make it clear if we're going to go to another reading. Please plead. Vote now. Thank you very much. With 30 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstention, 21 Federations, 9 RS, I agree that we have made a statement about this law in the second reading. Please state the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the second reading. 45 Vote now. I find that with 29 votes for, without prejudice, with one abstention, 20 from the Federation, 9 from the RS Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in both readings. Thank you very much. We're going to the 14th, final item of the agenda. That's Ad.14. Proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDS for the establishment of an investigative truth-finding committee in connection with SFOR's action in Palam, I remind you ladies and gentlemen that you have received a proposal for conclusions submitted by the SDS Club of Representatives. As you remember about this event, there was a speech at the last session of this house, which we adopted the conclusion that today we will be committed to the SDS Club proposal. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for conclusions you've received. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Do we have a proposal from the board members? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12128	... but I have a proposal that I have agreed on by two members, namely one is Milićević Ljiljana, the other is Ivo Miro Jović. I tried a third member of the Federation, so I didn't have enough time, and I didn't have enough time to say I asked a lot of people. It means only two, so it stays if we accept it means there's still one more member to suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12129	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. I propose that we make clear on the proposal for conclusions on the establishment of an investigative committee for the determination of truth in connection with SFOR's action in Palam, in the Palace. Please vote. Make your statement on this conclusion. Vote now. With 19 votes in favour of, 7 against, 4 abstentions, 10 from the Federation, 9 RS, I agree that we have accepted the SDS's proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission in connection with the consolidation of the truth in connection with SFOR's actions in the Palace. We have two proposals for a three-member commission. Do we have a third proposal? trebo should be from the Federation. Do you have Mr. Novaković, since your proposal is a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12130	Let's say Beriz Belkić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12131	No matter who voted, we've now formed, reached a conclusion on the formation, and now all we have to do is name people. So I accept your explanation. Do we have any other suggestions? I'm asking the presidents of the Federation's clubs, the Federation's parties, to propose one solution and to finish. I think the procedure is in place. The conclusion is operational and let's find the person's proposal. Here I will suggest Mr Izet Hadžić. It was my attempt, my contribution. What's up? Well, there won't be anything we can determine. Put it on the table. I can't hear you. Is someone going to be in the paint shop? Mr. Đedović, may I suggest? Well, no, I'm not here. I'm trying to find a solution, but you answer about the request. Show that the paint is constructive.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12132	It's not a problem, but if it was something else, it would have already been fixed. You know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-23-0.u12133	Thank you very much. I suggest that the third member of the commission be Mr Ibrahim Đedović. So we have a proposal from the committee members – Mrs Ljiljana Milićević, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Ibrahim Đedović. I ask the members of this House to plead on this proposal for members of this committee. Vote now. So I agree that with 24 votes in favour of, 2 against, 5 abstentions, 15 from the Federation, 9 from the RS accepted a proposal from members of this committee, composed of Mrs Ljiljana Milićević, Mr Ivo Miro Jović and Mr Ibrahim Đedović. I thank you. I'm realizing we've exhausted the agenda. I'm closing session 34 and reminding you that next May will be next month. Thank you very much. The session ended at 14.50 p.m.
