ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15142	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I welcome you all and open the 46th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the House Mr. Martin Raguž will be justifiably absent in the next watch, until the watch and by time, during that time according to the Rules of Procedure, I will lead this session, as the first deputy chairman, and when the chairman appears in the hall, of course he will take over the chairmanship of this session. So he's justifiably absent from these next hours, an hour and a half of the time he's known about, and an extended college. In addition to the MPs, guests and envoys and representatives of international NGOs who are monitoring the work of the House were invited to attend today's session, and I welcome everyone here. I welcome, of course, the representatives of the Council of Ministers who are present here. I also welcome the representatives of the media who are monitoring the work of today's session. According to professional service records, we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making at today's session. Members still enter the hall and these results are still summed up. We started a session with 31 MPs at the Parliamentary Hall. Now that number is significantly higher, and I expect that number to be delivered to me so that we can record for a stenogram exactly the presence. So at this point, they announced the absence from the session of Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr Nakaš and Mr Lagumdžija. Not all day long, but leave for a certain time, so they announced that something would be a little late because of the obligations they had. For the others who are not here, I have no notice. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on the draft agenda you received in the invitation, the 12th item was removed – the Joint Commission's report on the effort to follow the agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Foreign Investments Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since the Commission did not hold a meeting in order to agree. Accordingly, according to the Rules of Procedure, this item of the agenda cannot be the point of the agenda of today’s session. In addition, the General Assembly agreed and included a new item of the agenda, and you can enter it behind the seventh item as point eight 2 of the agenda, that is – the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions, by an urgent procedure, under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure. So, you have this in this agenda that was delivered to you this morning on benches, but I believe not everyone has been able to look at it, because some of them are still going into the O.R., so it's okay to say it here in public and in a stenogram and about it the College has already agreed to this morning's session. Before we move to the debate on the agenda proposal, I propose that we discuss as a previous issue a motion for a resolution on the adoption of the Otva document with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development, submitted by MP Milorad Živković on 12 October this year. You have received the motion for a resolution earlier, but we have delivered it to you today in the materials so you can have the material with you. So I suggest that in accordance with Article 121(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall be made clear whether the motion for a resolution will be previously discussed, whether the motion for a resolution will be previously discussed in the relevant committee. Unless the proposal is adopted, of course the Rules of Procedure resolution will be part of the agenda. Is there any need to discuss this? Mr. Živković, you're looking for a word. The word is Mr. Živković Milorad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15143	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I speak for myself, and in front of the population and development group whose president I am. We think it's a good document and we don't have to bid here on his fate. I think a broad debate should be held in Parliament, and we don't mind that the commission that is determined accordingly says so. So as far as we're concerned, we don't even need to make a statement about it. We think the commission can give its opinion on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15144	Thank you, Mr. Živković. You have actually helped me and the House to conclude this debate on this previous issue on the agenda of today’s session. And you agree that this goes to the board of directors. Of course, it's procedure and we have to vote, of course. I call upon you dear colleagues to state whether you are in favour of this resolution being addressed to the committee responsible. Prepare to vote and please vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 32 votes in favour and 1 vote against, and without abstentions, has decided to deliver 3 proposals for this resolution to the committee responsible. Which is the committee responsible will determine the College of the House of Representatives at its session. You have therefore received a draft agenda, this draft agenda has therefore been introduced with point 8. related to amendments to the Law on concessions under the emergency procedure under Article 105 and you have been informed that the item of the agenda relating to the harmonisation of the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments has been removed because the Commission has not completed its part of the work. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. If no one is answering for a word, I conclude the debate on the agenda and find that the 45th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the next agenda. I apologize, the 46th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has the following agenda 1. Book from the 45th session of the House of Representatives, 2. The appointment of three members in the joint committee of the two homes to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Law on Jurisdiction of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to use evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) Law on Payments to the Single Account and Allocation of Revenue, (e) Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and under f) the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement to confirm the appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, 5. Report from the Commission from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer Selim Bešlagić-zakon-Law in Second Reading), 6. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law on List of Populations, Households, Apartments and Agricultural Lands in 2005 by emergency procedure, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Framework Law on Deposits pursuant to an emergency procedure, as referred to in Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Emergency concessions Act, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. Proposal for a tax on additional value (VAT) – second reading, 4 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment (first reading), 11. Proposal for a law establishing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency – first reading, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 13. Information from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council on Internal Affairs and 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Development Credit Agreement, the Economic Governance Adjustment Credit, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. So this is the agenda of today's session. We have a definitive report on the number of present. So we're going to work on the agenda points. The first item of the agenda is Ad.1. The minutes from the 45th session of the House of Representatives, you have received a list of distinguished colleagues in the material for this session. I'm opening a debate on this record. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15145	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, one small intervention only, on the other side of the minutes in the formulation of the parliamentary issue that I have raised in the brackets is listed, and this agreement on the balance of military effects in Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries stands in brackets – without Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. It was probably either not clear in tone, or in that writing I wrote it inexplicably, it was actually the opposite, including Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. So that's my intervention in the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15146	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Anyone else want to talk about the record? Here you go. If no one answers my word, I'll conclude the debate and we'll move on to a record statement. I call upon you to make a statement on the record, with this remark that Mr. Ćeman quite justifiably stated in his intervention on the record. I invite you to plead. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously adopted the minutes from the 45th session of the House of Representatives in the 5th text as you received it, with the intervention Mr Mirsad Ćeman delivered today in his statement. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the same text: (a) Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Law on Jurisdiction of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to use evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) Law on payments to the single account and distribution of income, (e) Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and under f) The Law on the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina When we placed this item on the second item of the agenda of this sitting, we intended that the joint commissions in the course of today's proceedings could be notified to this legislation. However, as we are informed, this cannot be done today for objective reasons. Representatives of the House of Peoples, their representatives simply cannot participate today because of the obligations they have. It is therefore our job to appoint members of these joint committees, and they will later finish their work. I hope to do so as soon as possible and that we will have their reports at the first next session which is also, which will also be held as soon as possible. The College of the House of Representatives proposed that, for the draft laws under points (a), (b) and (c), the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecution of the cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutors of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to use evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, be named at today's meeting of the House of Lords: - Gligorić Tihomir, Zorić Vinko and Ćeman Mirsad. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. We're voting right now for all three of these laws. I don't think there's any need to vote separately, since all three men are on all three committees. These are practically three commissions on three laws, so we know what we're voting on. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their words, I'm closing the argument. 6 We move to a plea. I call upon you to plead. Vote now. The House of Representatives has chosen in these committees about these three laws unanimously, without votes against and without abstentions, pardon, with 32 votes in favour, with no votes against and one abstention, Mr Gligorić Tihomir, Zorić Vinko and Ćeman Mirsad. Nikola's absolutely right, I said vote now. Who is in favour, of course, can be voted against and abstained. So, you know, you're right about this guy, but it looks like I was basically right, so it wasn't anybody's problem, right? Okay. Let's move on. The College also proposed, the extended college this morning, that these three similar laws, as they refer to the financial area of the Payments Act in a single account and income distribution, the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also name three persons who will be members of all three of these commissions. So these are Mrs. Fatima Leho, Mrs. Ruža Sopta and Mr. Momčilo Novaković. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Any new suggestions? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I urge you to make a statement by voting on the new proposal. Vote now. What about this one here? We have to do it again, please. I declare that this call for a vote has not been technically forwarded and has not been valid. So we're canceling it and I'm calling you back to vote now. I find that the House of Representatives has chosen these three committees to comply under these three laws unanimously with 34 votes for, without votes against and without abstention, of course with a sufficient entity majority of ladies – Fatima Leho, Ruža Sopta and Mr Momčilo Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving to the next third item of the agenda, that's Ad.3. We have not received a single answer to any parliamentary questions since the 45th session. I will inform you that the College acted on Mr Joza Križanović and Mr Muhamed Moranjkić's initiative at the 45th session. As regards Mr Križanović's question concerning the execution of conclusions adopted at the 34th session on the provisional report by the Constitutional-Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution, the College referred the matter to the Council of Ministers for the Implementation of these, as well as many other conclusions of this House. 7 With regard to Mr Muhamed Moranjkić's initiative to include information on all activities related to the construction of Corridor Vc College, he asked the Council of Ministers to provide that information, after which it will be decided, to show the College and this home, and probably also to debate. That's the answer. I am now giving the opportunity to ask new parliamentary questions. Who wants to talk? Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević first, so let's move on. Here I am now not writing down whether there are any reported here, let's see. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15147	I have two questions to refer to the Council of Ministers. The first question is – In Bosnia and Herzegovina's medium-term development strategy, which we adopted here in 2004-2007 in the department's action plan, sectoral statistics priorities under point 15 are included and we have adopted here – a political decision on the time to maintain the census. As a carrier, there's a certain council of ministers. Deadline for the end of 2004. Question to the Council of Ministers – Are activities conducted on this issue and will the decision be taken within the given time limit? The second question – What did the Council of Ministers take about the information sent to him by the defence attorneys, i.e. to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in detail on the process of ratification of the Advocates and the way it was done. And also -- was there an abuse of powers by the deputy defenders since it was a significant institution for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the problems that were happening there we could only know from the newspapers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15148	I thank Mrs. Milićević. I'll get these electronics signed up first, then those hands up. Electronics says the next Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, so Mr. Selim Bešlagić, then Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Let's go team, then Mr. Milorad Živković. It's order, so we'll do it later. I'm sorry, Mr. Avdić, but I have to do this on my own. Here you go, Mr. Moran. I ask that the questions asked, of course they are written, and the services to go from the MPs who have asked questions to their seats and take these questions and bring home the Secretary of the House. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15149	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I have three questions. I'll be quick and quick. 1. What should the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina do to ensure that state institutions such as the Earth Museum, the University and the National Library of BiH, the BiH Archives and similar 4, 5, 6 institutions with a state seal under the supposed mark become state? 2. What do these institutions mean for this state and what are the solutions that this state and its bodies are supposed to do so that these institutions are treated as state institutions on all grounds, and above all they are status and material grounds? And three. The reform of the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected in public as a basis for the rule of law and order, justice and justice that adorns organised and organised social communities in the world we seek. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, and as an example of the counterproduct of the reform, I will state the Cantonal Court in Tuzla where it is done and tried according to the blackest standards and unreasonablely, at best. I ask the Council of Ministers and the Judicial Council to reconsider the work of this court as a choice of judges in this court who work according to their own standards, not by the standards of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15150	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here's the secretary, then you take the manual on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15151	My question is similar to Mr. Moranjkić's question, but like this, it's very short. In recent days, there has been some significant scientific and cultural institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that have a long tradition and enormous importance in the culture of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its peoples. The work of the National and University Library of BiH is also at stake after the Earth Museum. Why does the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina deny the institutions it created, which are owned by it? Why does it allow them to shut down and what does it need to be done to continue to exist? I ask the President of the Council of Ministers for an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15152	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Now it's Mr. Lozančić Ivo. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15153	Mr. Chairman, my question is about Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity system. We are witnessing that 15 days ago there was a presynchronisation of the actual reconnection of two power zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina into a single transmission network which became operational and on the same frequency. It is also modernly connected to the South East network with the Western European network. This is one of the largest synchronous zones in the world that covers 24 countries with nearly 500 million people and over 200 thousand kilometers of power grid. In fact, there should be a significant incentive in the reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity sector, which includes the separation of electricity production, functions, distribution and transmission, and the establishment of new power companies, i.e. organisations. This last one is actually an interest and my question. As I recall, in late July, we adopted the Law establishing an operator of the transmission system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the founding of the Power Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was advertised in the “Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina” number 35/04, which sets certain deadlines for certain activities. Among other things, it is envisaged that the first appointments of members of the Management Board of the Electricity Transfer Company in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Management Board of an independent system operator shall be carried out no later than 90 days from the date of entry into force of those laws. There are a lot of complex appointment procedures here, as several factors participate. The appointments are from the Federation, Republika Srpska and the Council of Ministers, there is also an external member. I am interested – How long has it come with these activities, at which stage, is it completed, or is it initially, since it is very important for further reforms and the development of electricity transmission in Bosnia and Herzegovina? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law establishing Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity transmission company is said to transfer the funds, obligations and activities necessary for the transfer and that these funds will become the property of the company mentioned. They also gave deadlines that were relatively short for 60 days and that came out, so I'm interested – how long did this procedure come with the transfer of some of the names of three electricity companies that exist in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area to the Power Transfer Company? So what kind of property is that? My question is to the Council of Ministers, we have a minister here, and it could be oral, given the activities so far, but I expect a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15154	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15155	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to apologize for the fact that in the last session, when I asked the question I made a lapus, it concerns the debt of the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the network current passing through our network, and I said that it was 100 million at that time. However, the truth is that some 100,000 marks are being made a monthly debt made by Croatia towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I want Parliament's services to be given that correction to the Council of Ministers. Of course I'm looking for that answer. On the other hand, my question to the Foreign Ministry is about the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world. The fact is that this image is bad and we can figure it out for a number of objective and subjective reasons, but the question is what do we do to fix it and how is it done? I will only read to you the official instructions of the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their citizens who want to go to Bosnia and Herzegovina where they are said to be robbed or infected; to avoid medical institutions because they are far below the average in Bosnia and Herzegovina; to avoid dairy products and drink only bottled water; to be able to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina easily to ethnic unrest; to have these kinds of unrest and demonstrations happen without any explanation, and foreigners can very easily be the target of violence; that there has recently been a demonstration against the West and the foreigners because there is an anti-Western mood here, and it is best to travel only during the day and in the car column. There is indeed a lot of my question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – što did it do if it knew about such information, did a denial occur, and will we try to fix the picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the image in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15156	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Sead Avdić has a word, and let Mr. Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15157	Ladies and gentlemen, I only have one reminder, which is that this parliament has adopted a request from a group of 15 MPs to organise a thematic session with OHR presidents and High Representative. Unfortunately, here's what, three months of the session is gone. We've been tolerated enough and it's about time that the really college, here we are once again by the end of the year, organizes that session. I think it is also necessary that the agenda is current, that I do not repeat what was written in the request of this group of MPs. I have two initiatives. 11 One initiative is to call on the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to officially launch activities with UN representatives responsible for the IPTF Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or our mission to the UN from New York to reach possible agreement on the revision of police decertification in Bosnia and Herzegovina? These people have been denied the right to judicial protection and appeal, and most importantly, their fundamental human right to work has been taken away. If it is added that before the IPTF's decision was realised, it was different in taking away work legal status, dessertd police officers, while respecting the IPTF misija and expressing their gratitude for its efforts and jobs in BiH, as well as for the decision of the House of Human Rights, I think that, according to the expressed political will, and that they have obtained the preconditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina raises the issue of protecting the human rights of its citizens, simply and in the UN mission, which means that it would be good for the Presidency, through the Foreign Ministry, to ensure the launch of this official procedure, not an ad hoc conversation, I don't know anything else, but simply an official request to the UN mission. And under 2nd, I think it is high time the Council of Ministers came urgently to develop a policy for the development of the electricity sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the hydroenergy sector and the thermal energy capacity in BiH, above all with the aim and emphasis of the update of a series of hydropower plants that are intended to be built on the rivers Vrbas, Drini, Neretva, etc., and the state cannot hear about what is happening in...and other places throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. This means crucially, a hydro development policy, i.e. the energy, electricity sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15158	I thank Mr. Sead Avdić. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15159	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads: - Who has funded and what is the cost of staying in the Brussels Police Reform Commission as well as all officials who have followed the Commission, regardless of whether they are representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina or domestic? In fact, we are witnessing that because of the lack of financial resources in the budget, even individual delegations are making it impossible for us to participate in very important meetings, or they are divided into two or three parts in order for us to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina provides some kind of presence. This is also the case with our delegation, or a delegation of Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where out of the three members of the College delegation, the decision was made that only one member of the delegation could go even though we were invited to attend three members. I am not saying this because of the College, but because of the fact that the College, therefore a difficult financial situation, had to withdraw and withdraw such steps, while at the same time 12 times a delegation of 20 and more, as members of the Commission and 40 and more different officials are abroad for 4-5 days preparing certain projects and most often without any results. Even if it were donor funds, it would be much better if those funds were used for material training such as SIPs or other agencies, whether it was newly created or existed earlier, because it would thus enable existing institutions to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15160	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Before Mr. Zorić takes his word, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to follow each other. Of course, you're right not to follow, but I think it'd be okay for the O.R. to rule silence as our colleagues speak to us. Let's hear each other out. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15161	I have one question to ask the Council of Ministers – Why is the price of oil in Bosnia and Herzegovina inappropriately high, since a large number of households and other entities are heating up on that energy? When I asked people like this in the field who sell that fuel, or people who should be involved in the organs of the government why, then they say that many people pour in their cars instead of lifts of lard oil and that's why. So it's the easiest thing to stop it from equating the lodge. So the energy that is, and the heating is the social category, people have to heat up, then it's the easiest thing to do with diesel in order to stop the diesel being poured into cars. I'm asking this because I'm coming from the neighborhood and I'm a representative of the voters who are really in a lot of heat, especially in the schools on lye oil, and we know that two days ago, a delegation from the Council of Ministers went to Moscow to pay for another energy. So the state paid for each other's energy, this is about gas to keep delivering that energy. It is therefore not required that someone else pay instead of those who use this energy, but it is required that one social price be introduced to that energy and that energy at that social price serves only for heating. This can be achieved very easily if there is a will for it, and if there is no need to say that the social category, unlike food, is not the same for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15162	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr Nikola Špirić, and get ready for Mr Ivo Miro Jović. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15163	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, I am the first to think whether it makes sense to ask a question, since we do not receive answers from the Council of Ministers or from another address in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I will ask two questions to the public. The first question is these days, the public is full of information about the rise in crime and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what is surprising is that there is no reaction is information coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office on the corruption of the President of the Constitutional Court. At first, a colleague, Živković, spoke of Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation outside. No wonder there's no answer from the D.A.'s office whether that information at his disposal is correct or not. If true, then it is a sign of what kind of environment Bosnia and Herzegovina is unfortunately found and what citizens can expect. If it is not true, then a great deal of damage has been done to an important institution such as the Constitutional Court and therefore I ask the Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court to verify that information and will the public be informed about it? And the second question is addressed to the Council of Ministers – Is the Council of Ministers planning within one of the ministries or as a separate secretariat to form a secretariat for the issue of religion and religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that they can be equal? Of course, such requests and questions come to me. Religious communities and religious officials feel that they are not equal. There is an impression that only the Islamic religious community exists in the Federation, that others do not exist. I must also say that in the government of Republika Srpska there was a Ministry of the Issue of Faith, and now it is the sekretarijat. I don't know what the situation in the Federation government is, but it would be good for the Council of Ministers to consider whether there is a possibility of forming a secretariat for religion or a question of religion in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, I'm interested in whether there are such thoughts and what does the Council of Ministers intend on doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15164	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović is still registered. I give him my word and after that we will conclude this item of the agenda, since there are no new reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15165	I thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives, the Honorable Ministers, I would ask the question, somehow quite accidentally being in the context of what Mr Špirić has now said. In fact, how long will the Roman Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina be a legal body? 14 We adopted the Law on Churches and Religious Communities in April and three months ago at the Ministry headed by Mr Mirsad Kebo, the minister sent a request for an answer to regulate these questions about legal subjectivity, because you know that there are huge problems in the application of this law, the functioning of the Roman Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of its internal structure. Three months have passed, no answers yet. My question is – when will the answer come to the question asked by the Roman Catholic Church?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15166	Thank you, Mr. Jović. Dear colleagues, especially you who have asked questions, I ask you to prepare for the services in writing what you have asked as a question, and the services to take these questions from the MPs and deliver them to the Secretary of the House. And I call on all those who have been asked today to take this kind of activity seriously in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to give us the answers to the questions asked, both at this session and at earlier sessions, which have not been answered today. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we end the point of today's 3rd agenda, and we move to the 4th point of the agenda, and it's called Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement to confirm the appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Commission's report you received from the College. As you've seen, no consent has been reached within the College. In accordance with Article 65(4), Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please turn off your mobile phones, we will conduct a second round of voting on the approval of Mr Slobodan Ećimović as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. We vote only by voting the House in principle for, against and abstention, and after that, unless there is a need for most votes to be made who is only against entities, let's see if there are 2/3 against. So we understood the total House of Voices by principle who is for this appointment, who is against, who is therefore abstention. This is now the vote and ladies and gentlemen I call you to vote now. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 19 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 7 abstentions and with a sufficient ethnic majority confirmed Decision 15 of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of Mr Slobodan Ećimović as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So there are enough majority in entities, 13 for the Federation, 6 for the RS, 17, no, no, they'll only come, so 19, 8, 7. So this is enough of a majority. There's no need for us to go to the polls, is there? Okay. We move to the fifth item of the agenda, it's called Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer Selim Bešlagić - Law in the Second Reading) reached agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina which did not receive the ethnic majority in the second reading. In accordance with Article 65(3), I am informing the Rules of Procedure of the House and I find that this Law on the Amendment of the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is proposed by MP Selim Bešlagić, has been adopted. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The College's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law on List of Populations, Households, Apartments and Agricultural Lands in 2005 following an emergency procedure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković were not in agreement with the College Commission. You got the report. In accordance with Article 65(4), we will hold a second round of voting. I will remind you of the provision of Article 104(4). The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the proposal for a law will be considered in accordance with the general principles, unless the House accepts an emergency procedure request. So we again. Mr. Milorad Živković, it is not usual for Mr. Živković to be spoken at this stage, but here's the word you're looking for. Here you go. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15167	The Honorable Presidency, I felt that the agenda was the point, and every item of the agenda could be debated, so in the meantime, there were some other things that happened, and I want to explain that I might have persuaded the House to vote for this procedure for the simple reason why we are aware of the fact that this is the senselessness of the 104 procedure because it has been so long since I offered this procedure and it's just saying that we need a new Rules of Procedure, that I don't understand why this new Rules of Procedure is still not here in Parliament and that it was better that I went through the regular procedure already in the commission phase. So the mere senselessness of procedure is here on this legality. 16 On the other hand, additional moments that a practical public debate has been held on this law. Many shows have been made, many to say polls, so I can tell you where the citizens are, and even in both entities, that in most of the Census Act are implemented, and experts are for that. So this House is the only one who turns out to be the brakes to pass that law. I would also remind you of those things we promise, and we have promised as a Commission for European Integration that we will always mean, whenever possible, to implement the programme of activities of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the deadlines set, the Commission recommends that the House of Peoples and the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be adopted by a reduced procedure whenever possible. These are our conclusions that we adopted here, and I think it's our turn to honor them. Also, yesterday at a meeting in Mostar, we boast, you know, that we are carrying out these activities and that there is a Law on the census in the deadlines, that it is by emergency procedure, no one will tell the EU that we do not intend to even vote on that law. So we're just satisfying the shape. For all these reasons, and also those reasons before that, which, when I explained procedure 104 here, we had a quality debate about it, I am asking you to support this procedure now because the law will certainly go into procedure and we have lost a lot of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15168	I thank you too, Mr. Živković. Let me tell you, I didn't want to interrupt you, this was a discussion, so I confirmed I was quite right, this is a phase so when we plead after consent and then there's no debate but here, I gave you my word but to know that it was in my opinion past the Rules of Procedure. I call on the House to now, just like the former principle, at the earlier agenda point, re-proclaim itself on principle, vote for this procedure, against this procedure and abstain, and then, depending on it, we go against it. And I now call upon the House to plead on this procedure. Vote now. The second round of voting, of course. 15 for, 15 against So this initiative, in this round of voting, has not received not only entityally, but it has not received general parliamentary support, there is no entity support from the Federation but there is no general 15 for, 15 against, 15 abstentions and it is now falling in the first round. Serquetary, tell me, shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15169	We're in the second round of voting
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15170	And we're moving on, aren't we? If we want to continue now, be careful in the general vote, the question is, therefore, in the general vote in the second round, the initiative, this is the first time we have this situation, the initiative didn't get a majority. 17 I therefore conclude, please, that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly did not accept the procedure under Article 104 and the law goes into regular procedure. We're going to the next item on the agenda. This, please, is an apology regarding the previous point, Mr Momčilo Novaković, an intervention related to the Rules of Procedure or business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15171	That this is a Commission report from the College, i.e. on coordination, I think, i.e. it is necessary to vote against it. So, the House must declare whether there are enough members against, this one in the RS and the Federation against or not. Please, we voted in the first phase who's in, who's against the procedure. We've established that we don't have the necessary majority for the procedure and now we're voting in the second round against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15172	Mr. Novaković, I'd like to ask the secretary to read behind the pay phone, please, this relevant provision of the Rules of Procedure, so let's move on. I don't think things are at all controversial. Of course he's got it all, he's got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15173	Thank you. I would like to read you the provision of Article 65(4). A Rules of Procedure, which is today to say in the procedure. If the College fails to reach agreement without reaching agreement, or if it achieves agreement with a new solution that was not the subject of the House vote, now decisions will be made, most of the total number of MPs present, who vote, with the permission to vote against, do not contain two-thirds or more MPs elected from each entity. It is evident here that in this first part of the vote, the proposal did not receive a majority. This is also why this second part of the Rules of Procedure cannot be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15174	I thank the secretary. I think things are perfectly clear to Mr. Novaković now that the contents of this provision are heard. And that's how we got rid of this dilemma. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Framework Law on Deposits pursuant to an emergency procedure, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure You are a respected fellow bill was delivered to this home. I'd like to ask for some silence really. Can we have a little quiet? There you go. Delivered on 14 October 18 2004. It was delivered to you on October 19th. It is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15175	The respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH MPs' club wants to support this request by the Council of Ministers. However, we cannot refrain from warning one phenomenon that is becoming increasingly common. So, if you look at it, here we have 2-3 laws today that have been passed back a few months or at most a year, and immediately followed by interventions and corrections and technical nature, and probably there are some essential ones, things that require changes, etc., which tells me that the legislators of these laws, so primarily the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry really warn that this surface, not to say the sloppyness and inconsistency of the law, or their inconsistency that causes then frequent interventions leading to this legal uncertainty, which is very often spoken of both confusion and people very difficult to cope with, which is not in force. And by the way, one initiative. There is already a need for a significant number of legal projects that we have adopted here, and a series of changes and additions in the meantime to make these unique or purified texts, as they are said legally, so that people can manage what is in force and what is not. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15176	I thank you too, Mr. Belkić. Who wants to talk any further? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea and I urge you to make a statement as to whether you accept this emergency procedure regarding this law. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour of, 1 versus, 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, has accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider this law under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. And now we're declaring ourselves about the very text of the law, about amendments to the Framework Law on Stocks. I invite you to plead with me on the very text of the law. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, pardoned by a majority of votes, with 30 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, passed the Law on Amendments to the Deposits Framework Law. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions under an urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 105. Rules of Procedure of 19 Dear fellow Members, this law is included in the agenda today at a session of the Expansive College. The extended college decided to put this law into place today. You've got the law. The law is very short content and clear content. I think you've had time to read it. And here, I am opening a debate on the procedure under Article 105 concerning this law amending the Law on concessions. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. At the request of the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Vink Zorić, I am setting a 15-minute break. Continuing at 11 o'clock and 25 minutes, precisely at 11.25. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] The president of the HDZ Club asked for a break if he wanted a word after the break? Ask for a word after the break Mr. Vinko Zorić has a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15177	Oh, thank you. I guess we didn't understand each other, and it was weird to me, and I asked for 15 minutes, and I thought the chairman said 11 and 35, so I guess it was 25. I apologize, on behalf of the club. We have, in fact, been done this one, and before and our club will support both the procedure and these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15178	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Next, who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I repeat the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So we are now pleading on the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure. I call upon you, dear colleagues, to plead with the vote, now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 33 votes in favour, without against and 3 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted a procedure under article 105 concerning the law. We're moving on to a statement on the text of the law itself. I call upon you to plead with the eight contents of the law, vote now. 20 I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and 2 abstentions, passed with a sufficient entity majority the Law amending the Law on concessions, which we received from the Council of Ministers. I thank you, dear colleagues. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Proposal for a tax code on additional value, second reading As you know, the proposal for this law was adopted in the first reading at the 43rd session of the House. Then Dom adopted a conclusion that practically set a new commission stage. The Commission has been given a 15-day deadline to consider possible new amendments, new proposals and suggestions and commissions have done their part of the job. We received a new report from the commission on 27 October, which was sent to you on 28 October. We have seen that the Commission for Finance and Budget has adopted 29 amendments in the plenary phase, so after this new report by the Commission, the amendments have been submitted by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, submitted seven amendments that it wants to defend again in the plenary phase, Mr Beriz Belkić has submitted six amendments to which the amendments have been challenged, Mr Hazim Felić has submitted one amendment, which he wants to defend again in the plenary phase, and Mrs Sead Palavrić has submitted amendments challenging the 3 amendments to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore in the second reading of this law. Debate and vote on the proposed amendments under Article 96 Rules of Procedure. In accordance with this article, I am opening a debate on amendments. Who wants to talk? Secretary, keep a record, I beg you, help me. Anybody want some? If there's no one, I'll take it. Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Jozo Križanović, continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15179	Since it is an extraordinary system law, Mr. Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15180	Wait a minute. Let's see. Mr. Beriz Belikć
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15181	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I give a suggestion useful for considering this strategic, roof law for BiH. Given the public debate, given the views' interfaces, parts of the international community, the views of the Council of Ministers and Parliament of BiH, I think it would be useful to hear it one more time, if they need to say in favour of this law and the concepts that the law defends, which is simply the Council of Ministers and the International Community, particularly the IMF and the World Bank. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15182	I thank Mr. Sead Avdić. The speaker of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, reports. He, of course, has an advantage over the MPs when he asks for a word in this room. I, of course, welcome him, he came to the O.R., and the finance minister here is also the director of the Management Board of the I.D., Mr. Dikson, and the representatives of the International Monetary Fund and international institutions, I also welcome them. And I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr Adnan Terzić. Mr. Chairman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15183	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr. Avdić is right and that this is not a question that has the right to speak before someone, but that perhaps I, on behalf of the Council of Ministers and I must admit that this can also be interpreted in the name of the international community's views, to say a few words about this law before you start your discussions. The VAT law is, that no longer needs to be repeated, key and reform law, which our tax system should establish according to European standards. The Directorate for indirect taxation, entity governments and the Council of Ministers, worked together for several months with IMF officials to draft legislation that will allow BiH to get a tax system that will have all the characteristics of the EU-developed porn systems. But it will also respect certain personalities and the Constitution and the very economic situation in BiH. We have been defining for the quick introduction of VAT to be guided by one of the features we wanted from this quick introduction, which is an effective introduction of VAT. So the experiences that countries in the region, EU countries with VAT, with differentiated rates, are experiences that we have taken into account. However, we realized that the differentiated VAT rates in BiH cannot meet this need for an effective VAT introduction. It is clear to me that in our first reading, in the commission's work, at the time of the public debate, we have had the opportunity to tell everyone from our point of view what we think about introducing VAT into BiH. And I'm glad that we have a full consensus, that the sooner and the more effective the VAT needs to be introduced and that this represents our tax system. Some of the discussions that went in the direction, not only of the MPs but also of the interest groups, which went in justice that someone in this country when discussing the VAT law when he proposes and thinks and cares about citizens, and someone who doesn't, I don't think they have any basis. It is true and it must be noted that BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs have been elected by citizens, to respond to the citizens, but I will also remind you of my opening address, when you confirmed my appointment as Prime Minister's Chairman. I then promoted two elements that I would like to spend in the work of the Council of Ministers and I think that in these 22-3 months we have absolutely shown that it was not just a desert rhetoric, but that it was the basis of our action. I first promoted the care of citizens, based on the work of the Council of Ministers and not on the protection of national interests and others, full responsibility for the fate of both citizens and the state in proposing and implementing the laws that this Council of Ministers is doing. So I really want to say that this council of ministers has been thinking about citizens and 22 it is safe not to propose any legal regulation, any measure that would harm BiH citizens. I am glad that it has proved in BiH that key laws, key processes, can be discussed without talking about the position of protection, only protecting the national interest or position of the people to whom I belong. The VAT is the first law after the Dayton Agreement that no one spoke on behalf of the Bošnjak on behalf of the Hrvat on behalf of the Srbin, protecting these interests, but on behalf of the interest groups, and that is the healthiest basis for the debate on the tax system law. We simply respect all the fears, all the uncertainty, all the mistrust that every MP carries with him and without which he would probably not be a good MP and representative, therefore respecting that fact, we want to say that at this moment, with the system that we have in BiH, with the development of institutions like we have in BiH, it is impossible to organise the introduction of VAT in such a short time with a differentiated rate. So we can look at this finding as far as you want, but it's constant and it's like that. And it is not at all a question of whether anyone thinks a differentiated rate can be a better solution than one step, but the question is whether a differentiated rate can be implemented, whether a VAT introduction system can be prepared and whether it can be achieved, if we start at a differentiated rate immediately. Even the experiences of countries in the region speak of dramatically changing inflows into budgets when they shifted from a single rate to a direct rate. And look, now we're talking about countries that still have a centralized system of state administration. So, the finance minister of any state, has in its hands both customs and tax administration and all possible mechanisms to manage finance in that state. In BiH, the finance and vault minister has no such mechanisms. Here we now get the Direct Taxation Authority that is just being created, it's just uniting that tax administration system still means they're not in that system, they just have to get into that system and we just can't take responsibility for law enforcement if we have a differentiated rate. And it's not a social issue at all, it's not a matter of concern and concern for the citizens of this country, it's simply a matter of functioning the system. We've been trying to get the system in place for 22 months, and in many areas, we've done it. Give us a chance to try to get the system in place in this key area, too. And it's simply impossible to do it at this point with differentiated rates. We also opted for the relatively high threshold of coverage obligation, the legal obligation to cover VAT with business entities. 50,000 KMs is a fairly high threshold and it's not like other countries in the region, but we did it because according to the budgets that we had with the International Monetary Fund, about 90 to 95% of traffic would be covered by this threshold, and we would have something over 20,000 companies that we would have to register before we started introducing VAT. And we think it's the maximum that today's indirect taxation agency, entity income management, cantons, municipalities can implement. If we go to a differentiated rate, only with a zero to say bread. We will have a drastic increase in the number of companies because every baker will have to apply. And we're not talking about 20,000 companies anymore, we're talking about maybe 50 to 60 grand. Some indicators say they're taller but we don't throw ourselves at too many numbers. And we simply can't register that number of enterprises. So we put a threshold of 50,000 aware that in a year, when we set up these 20,000 companies, we're going to set up a threshold... and eventually we're going to get to the full of this, the coverage of all those who are making traffic in BiH. So it's not about whether anyone knows more or less about tax policy, VAT, etc. This is about purely operational technical things that are constant 23 that can change in a year, and they will change, probably in a year, but at this point it's simply a question of whether to assume the laboratory conditions and assume that we have a fantastic system, an orderly system, that we don't have, that the Border Service is working for us, that we don't have hollow borders, that we don't get through and we don't have various trains, and that we go to a differentiated rate, means that we have.... conditions for that, or to say that we don't have that. But aware that in each segment, as we do introducing VAT, we have to make this, the system, and we have to have better results. I guarantee that the introduction of VAT in most cases, especially for citizens, at one rate, will have no consequences as was said for this speaker, as was said in the public debate, as can be read in the media. I guarantee you that if you support our idea and you accept that we speak openly to you and that it is not at all a game between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, does anyone know less or more about VAT, whether someone counts through numbers or numbers per metre, than it is a matter of living reality in BiH. So if you support that unique rate, we will be able to prepare the introduction of VAT for 1.07. In 2005, we will be able to make social funds based on clear budgets and on the clear needs of social categories in BiH, we will be able to explain to every farmer that his product will not be collected, we will be able to explain to each producer how much it will eventually return from that VAT, etc. It's simply impossible, and this is the last committee to conclude. It's impossible for us to have a law that's been published with differentiated rates and we act like it's one step in the law. On the other hand, you have complete control of the moment when this law will start to apply. Look out, it's only in your hands. If you say and accept the law 01/07/2005, if we do not prove it to you, and we are ready to prove to you together with entity governments, that we can make social programmes, and that no one in this country will be in a position in which in the last two months is spoken in BiH, you can simply say a month before, because the Council of Ministers has not fulfilled its promises, because we are not sure that this, that the introduction of VAT at one rate, will not cause disaster for BiH citizens, we are delaying application. Look out, these are the mechanisms that are in your hands. But there's another moment here that I'm not sure we're all aware of. So in BiH, there is such constitutional order, the Council of Ministers, entity governments. The Council of Ministers has such authority that it can in principle send to you no law that is not in line with entity governments, especially reform law. The Directorate for indirect taxation, in particular there is one specificity and we need to be aware of this specificity. The law on indirect taxation has introduced some new modalities in this, the way tax policy is run in BiH. Therefore, the law implies that nothing in this country can happen in terms of taxes, as far as customs are concerned, if the Upava of indirect taxation does not give its consent to that. Parliament can make a decision, MPs may have a perfect idea, however, the law says that this perfect idea must ultimately give consent to the Directorate for indirect taxation. And it's just a model that we adopted and we all voted for it here, which they say is a European standard and we simply can't apply it in practice right now, because that's when we show a single dose of indifference to the 24 laws that we accept and according to our definition of reforming society to European standards. So, in order for this law to come into the process at the Council of Ministers at the Directorate of Direct Taxation, it had to pass the approval of experts and finance ministers, and at the Directorate for Direct Taxation, entity finance ministers have the right to veto. And simply, if one finance minister in question, if the administration decides on tax, if he vetoes, there's nothing from that law, there's nothing from his procedure. So he has to get along. The VAT law has been given full consent to the Directorate for Direct Taxation. So the finance ministers agreed to this, experts and all those who make up the Directorate for indirect taxation. Whatever's here to change, and to change that law, we need to agree with the IRS. And this is one example for the future that, in my opinion, we need to find a mehn...no matter how our rules of procedure are made before the Law on indirect taxation in BiH comes out, we need to make a system of how to fix these things quickly and efficiently. It is possible that the system that treats this area after its amendments, following its agreed views, is agreed to this work by the Direct Taxation Board, some system must be found. So we're observing this law, look out, it's a key reform law. Simply respecting all the things you represent in this home and in BiH. In the end, every idea must be agreed by the Directorate for indirect taxation. Is that what we said to the Law on indirect taxation? So I suggest that we understand the reality, that you accept both my views and the views of the Council of Ministers, not as people who know more about this issue than people who know what they have and as people who have to implement and implement this law. Let us return to our position and vote on amendments that will clear the Commission's proposal to the position given by the Council of Ministers, to oblige both the Council of Ministers and the entity government to come forward with clear programmes by March of next year, that the adverse consequences and effects of the application of value added tax will be resolved by social programmes and that you will leave us with another period of time to implement the law that is yet to come into your procedure. By applying the Tax on Transport of Products Act in BiH, in which we have liberating these, rates, so by applying it, we will come up with clear indicators that this country's incomes are moving when we have the release of bread, on milk, on some of the things that this law treats. So if we vote today on the law as proposed by the Council of Ministers, nothing will change in Bosnia tomorrow, let alone some cataclysm. I am afraid and we have set up a matter that if the MPs support the law that we have sent you, that you will participate in the total cataclysm in BiH. Nothing will change tomorrow or change in a month or five months. But the law is in your hands. The date of law enforcement is in your hands. If we don't show you that we're so responsible and we don't show you that what I'm telling you right now, that nothing bad will happen to any citizen in Bish, that nothing bad will happen if we pass the law and apply the law at one rate, if we don't prove it to you, don't apply the law. Change a member who talks about the date of application of the law and it is almost and normal, I am prepared to, under such conditions and the Council of Ministers, bear consensus, that is to disband us. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15184	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. Now it's the debate. And I don't know if we should rephrase to the editorial, but you can tell everything through the discussion. I think that would be the order. I mean, here's what I think if it's okay with you. I'll give you my word, Mr. Duraković, so, through your own discussion, please refer to the opening statement. I mean, I don't know, if you insist I won't deny you, but I think here's that, well, thank you very much. So, I have the next order of reports, Mr. Jozo Križanović, and Mr. Beriz Belkić, and Mr. Ivo Mior Jović, and Mr. Špirić, and Mr. Mladen Potočnik, will I record you after you have answered? Mr. Duraković, Džaferović, Gligorić. We've had enough for now, and then we'll do more records. Okay, thank you very much. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović, please, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15185	Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say at first that I reserve the right to apply for a discussion and now I'd like to trouble a dilemma of business nature. At the 43rd session, Dom adopted the principles of the proposal of this law, with a change in the principles of the number of tax rates. Therefore, the unique home was that there should be differentiated rates in the VAT law. Our commission has deviated from that principle and has brought it down to a unique rate. The question is therefore asked, we are now in the second reading, the second reading on our rules of procedure is being discussed on amendments. So the first reading of principles and principles was completed. I would like to say that in the first reading, when this law was considered, it was adopted with a changed principle, so with a differentiated VAT rate adopted. I'm imposing one dilemma, and I'm not sure how to get out of this, but in any case, if we stay on this, I think today should open up the possibility not only of discussing amendments, but of principles as well. Once, Dom came to terms with the principles and principles of this law and adopted a differentiated rate. That's it, and I reserve the right to apply for discussion, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15186	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15187	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to see that in the main everything said and that there are very clear positions of more of all actors in this whole process, for the simple reason we have had the debate, we have had a number of different meetings, both with the promoters and with the representatives of the administration and with the International Community, but here is the opportunity to in some way understand that we can and can correct and change 26 views and opinions, but here is the opportunity for all of us to come out clearly with our views on this issue. When it comes to the matter Mr Križanović spoke of without the ambition to interpret the matter, I can only say that the Finance Commission and the budget in the new report also foresees two steps. So standard rate and zero rate. So I would, in my humble opinion, estimate that the commission remains on the trail of the House of Representatives' position. So it's not about a three-speed system or a three-foot or two-foot system, it's about a differentiated principle. But here I am to move to the position of the Party for BiH, in some way to try to further explain the amendments that I have proposed. So, first of all, these amendments are on the trail of the House of Representatives' position that we have established here and are on the trail of previously supported amendments by the Finance and Budget Committee, which are not here that has not been stated here. Compared to the new commission report, they are on the trail of amendments in the commission's report, they were brought by interventions to the level that we found at the first raps, or at the debate when the first report was drawn up. Why are we, or why have I given myself up? For a simple reason, I have tried to explain as briefly as possible to say that we do not want to do such a project, that is to support such a project that will endanger, not solve social problems, but endanger the current social economic situation, bring people into a worse position than in which they are, that in some way we want to do the same with education, culture, science, information and in some way go on the trail of the current or current current current solutions when it comes to agricultural production. So all this is the subject of these amendments, at this point, is also the subject of the release of the current Transport Tax Act, which is worth the Federation, and to me, as far as I know the rates are in some way this one, balanced in both entities. I fully understand and respect the reasons that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has presented on several occasions, and we, as a party, gave up support for the introduction of three feet. So we don't support a lower rate and that's what we're willing to do at this point when it comes to the argument that we were talking about here. And just a few things to mention. It is often mentioned, when it comes to dealing with citizens, I... I don't understand demagogy, I totally understand that we all have a responsibility to the citizens and we don't tend to buy some points this way, etc. But here's what we need to discuss when it comes to bread, bread, whatever you want. We can't ignore the fact that every day at Class Company in the morning at 5 or 6 a.m., people buy old bread, because it's 30 fenings, etc. We can't ignore that fact. We won't ignore it. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the fact that in this country, there are disabled, unusually high percentages of people with disabilities, military disabilities, disabled people, etc. We didn't do anything for that category of people. So there's a threshold below which the BiH Party cannot go. So we're simply going to argue that the total project is also a zero rate, that it refers not to some products that are not necessary for people, but simply a spectrum of products without which people can't live. 27 Or in one word to say, we simply do not want to support the project under some syntagm, or in some form, that operation succeeded, the patient succumbed. So, we will remain with the amendments that we have tabled and our relationship to the debate, according to the Council of Ministers' demands we express by giving up support for the lower rate. Here, so much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15188	Thank you very much, Mr. Bezir Belkić. The word has Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15189	I apologize, I think it's left before my speech and in order to rationalize the weather
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15190	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15191	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow Members, honourable chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed ministers, distinguished guests, I see here today the representative of Mr Dixon's International Community of IMF representatives, and I think it is a good thing that today, within the framework of the state parliament, we are discussing such an important issue. Just what was not good, ladies and gentlemen, which didn't happen and it made sense to be present in the first reading and to hear what the MPs of the state parliament thought of such an important state project. And I will visit all of you, to make it clear to the public of BiH that this important reform system law has started to be discussed at the time of the pre-election campaign and then, naturally, SDP Club Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija came out with one proposal, to go to a differentiated triple rate, which here seemed almost unanimously accepted, taking care first of all of the social segments in which BiH citizens are located. I was also saying that both models and all the models that were heard are unfortunately presupposing a contractual thing, which is not good. Both two and three feet and every model is a matter of serious state account. I have to tell the public that I'm about VAT, here's all the material that got the only number is rate. This is the world's most inconclusive approach, which could have been unfortunately when it comes to VAT. I would like to, I know that this is a complex issue, so it's not VAT, it's both an economic and social and political issue and a serious economic and serious social and serious political issue. And in that context, he must be seen. We heard in the opening statement from Mr Terzić that the differentiated VAT rate will not satisfy the formula of effective VAT introduction, that the differentiated rate cannot be introduced in such a short time, there cannot be law if we introduce a differentiated VAT rate and ultimately, nothing will change tomorrow if we introduce a single VAT rate. If that's all right, if VAT is reduced to a strict technical matter, then ladies and gentlemen why even reform. Why reform? I expected that in the analysis of state accounts, social accounts, the Council of Ministers, and representatives of the 28 international community that assist, provide good services, will come out with a serious budget. What is BiH? What is today's main problem is BiH's original income. How many institutions, therefore, there is information and advocacy, that if the existing level of BiH institutions should function maximumly, it should provide close to 500 million KM in the state budget. Now that budget is barely 220 million somewhere. And if all the standards are to be met that when we enter the active negotiation and EU membership phase, it will take about a billion KMs somewhere. Now the question is, have we calculated how much income we're going to get based on the VAT rate, was it 18%, was it differentiated, 17%, 13th and zeroth rates? Is there a model simulation, mathematically, with one foot and two feet and three feet? There's no one here, I'm convinced no matter what political party they belong to, who won't accept the most economically rational solution. But I can't be the information that it's impossible to introduce a differentiated rate, it's possible. I can't accept the solution that it's technically inconclusive, it's possible. I can't accept the solution that it's legally inadmissible, it's applicable. But can 95% of the population living on the edge of existence be neglected here? Can this be ignored what counterpart Belkić was talking about? We are, the Constitution is VAT and no one is against it, but it requires a model simulation, and then there's no need for us to lead here long-term debates in which someone will lead us to contract policy. And what particularly bothers me, since we had our first debate, there has been no contact between clubs to bring our views closer, it has been the international community as if it were her only task. She was trying to explain, unfortunately, and there I did not find the calculations that would give which model for BiH is best. It is clear to me that the unique rate is the simplest model, the most efficient, the cheapest and the most financial one, but I said that it is not strictly an economic matter, but it is both social and political. Do we have answers to these questions? Is there a Council of Ministers? It's not an answer, you know. You keep us on the line until March of the month, you'll have a social program. We had our conclusions towards the Council of Ministers when it comes to customs policy, to come out within three months, when the tariffs are in question to report to parliament. We're six months away. We have no information. The second thing, it's impossible to work at a unique rate, so as a folk to realize a model and in March it shows up and says, you know, we don't have a social programme and a model prepared for a unique one. What are we gonna tell the citizens? So I ask the Council of Ministers to get serious, to work day and night at model simulations, otherwise this is one of the barren political stories that the citizens wanted to use. Not to explain to them all the good and bad sides of the VAT. And I think it was a serious SDP proposal, and I don't think it was political, and what happened was that MPs were so in love with the triple rate in the pre-election campaign that they would now tell voters that it was just part of the pre-election game, that they now figured out by the IMF's order that one rate would not really starve everything or kill everyone. Therefore, public behavior and what are called government accounts must be strictly taken into account. There's no inter-entity story here. These stories could have been quite consistent, I don't think there's resistance and there's no national story, this is a strict question that concerns every single person in our country, and I don't think I'm convinced, unfortunately, that no one has convinced me by math that one, two or three feet, the rate is better. And that's why I'm gonna get along just like I did in my first reading. I wanted to make a contribution just because the party I belonged to couldn't handle the amendments, we wanted to make a contribution to 29 get to a good state law, but it seems to me that it was found that tried to convince clubs and parties, it wasn't good, and I'm afraid we're not going to bring a good legal project. Especially since the eyes of the public are against what is called VAT in BiH, it seems to me that there has been a lot, it needs a much wider public debate and much more to bring the problem closer professionally to those to whom it will apply. This seems to me that the VAT story has come down to a story between the OHR, the Commission for indirect taxation and the Council of Ministers. For God's sakes, they were supposed to convince each other what was best. And I have to say, that the beginning of the debate itself, and I reacted back then when the Council of Ministers proposed a single VAT rate, and it defended here in parliament's lap more than one step. And that's when I said it was nonses, that it was invisible that the proposer wasn't defending his proposal. But here it was already clear that it was a pre-election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15192	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Have Mr. Nijaz Duraković prepare, then Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15193	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, present guests, at the 43rd session, I supported the proposal of three tax rates, and I will again explain a few of the elements that the previous speaker stated. The assessment is that if it were three feet, it would be a loss at a level of 200 million marks. On the assumption that this is true, it would essentially amount to only 3 per cent of total budget revenues at BiH level from municipality to state. But on the other hand, those 200 million marks would be a 5 per cent blow to the head of the population. In BiH, we have about 450 thousand people with disabilities and pensioners and about 250,000 unemployed, which is an opportunity of 700,000 people and each of them has at least one family member, so we're talking about people who are about a million and 400 thousand. If they introduced one tax rate, they would practically take half the bread of each of these millions and four hundred thousand people. I don't want that. The state must fill its register, the production must have stimulation, but the man must also live. All these three elements are an integral part of VAT policy. Therefore, a zero rate exists to protect the social structure, a lower rate to improve, or accelerate the development of agricultural, livestock production, etc. a normal rate exists because for normal products such as products are high and others. All the arguments cited by the Council of Ministers and the International Community, I will quote them, the security of tax collection, the security of tax collection is not at the tax rate, but is in inspections and customs services. Technically, we have three tax rates today, zero, 10% and 20%. Technically feasible. The state is truly becoming liquid at the moment VAT is introduced. That is why I say once again, I will vote for three tax rates and against this concept proposed by the International Community and the Council of Ministers. It is applicable in Europe where gross or GDP is $10,000 or $12,000 and not in BiH where only a thousand dollars. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15194	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Nijaz Duraković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15195	I'm doing a better examination, and I'm sorry that Mr. Terzić left because I thought I'd give him a few observations first of all. In fact, this is what we've all been interested in for months now, and I can't figure out why certain structures especially of the ruling parties insist on a uniform tax rate. Really, I can't reach it. Last time I spoke. Mr. Terzić says we must understand the reality of BiH. Well, that's exactly why. BiH has the most unemployed in Europe, according to the proportion of the population. Most pensioners are proportional to the number of employees, almost one employed 1 pensioner. Most disabled people in Europe. The most sick in Europe from paraplegics to others, not only those who have suffered in war but also in peace. Most hungry in Europe and unfortunately illiterate in Europe. Now we'll even the tax for the Bucharest and the reader or the notebook in the first, the base, the caviar, the Cadillac and the yacht, etc. That's crazy. Two-thirds of BiH's inhabitants are at the border of existence and many are not only on the threshold, but on hunger. He just mentioned it to me. Go to the morning in front of "class" they pop bread, which today is not sold tomorrow, which cost 60 fencing, tomorrow they sell 30 a day. Kilometer columns for that bread, bread, whatever you want. Therefore, all of them shall be evened out and the reasons given. First of all, it is clear that the state will take a higher income at a single rate. Clearly, that's easier. But this is going to happen in this incompetent bureaucracy of ours, it doesn't matter. There are other indicators. Every serious... here we have a doctor of information, etc. So it was either one or two feet or three. Every product has its own code, has its own code, at a time of computer and information, I mean it's stupid to say that it's as expensive as that's not possible, our tax administration is incompetent, etc. She's incompetent for one or two or three, anyway. And for what it's real now, I don't get that story. Now, in the last parliament, as far as I'm concerned, we've consensually opted for a differentiated rate. Okay, it doesn't have to be triple, it can be one general and another zero, but it also has to be done with this kind of angle. With such a miserable explanation. It just doesn't get in my head. And in the end, the IMF gentlemen from Europe, the OHR, well, that's very hypocritical to me, so I don't want to say rudely. They offer us something that they do not apply in their countries. Of the 25 EU countries, I repeat, 25 with these newly noted, only two countries have a unique rate. It's Denmark and Slovakia. Slovakia has already taken steps to make it different. Well, gentlemen, if this is true in your countries, if in Britain, Ireland, Austria, Italy, France, Germany, rich Sweden, etc. You are applying a differential rate, which you offer a unique rate to poor and distressed, hungry BiH. Because I agree with Mr Špirić, this is not just an economic issue, this is primarily social and bogami's and eminent political. And then, before the election, all the parties were saying we were going to a differentiated rate. I would ask Suada Palavrić to go on 31 TV and tell her voters now, which changed the turkey. For what reason? Now what does it mean to get the debate back to square one? We adopted the principle in the previous parliament. The principle is a differentiated rate. Now we can discuss amendments or variants of three feet or two but in any case differentiated. Returning things to the beginning means underestimating this Parliament. He can't come to us from the Council of Ministers of Terzić and say I'm sorry that you didn't listen to the previous explanation, so here we have to do well. If we need more time, my Bog. But if Terzić says that nothing, for God's sake, is going to change, so why are we even discussing what we're bringing? It will also change how when the law is applied, as much as every product in this country will grow by at least 25%. 17% of this rate and count the cost of energy, energy collection and oil, and it's around here somewhere. It means that there will be an even greater threat to those socially and so largely threatened. And we should take care of it. If nothing to do with telling this people one thing, and now it seems under a lot of pressure we want another. Terzić, the worst part of your exposure is, it's actually like when you get into a lot of trouble, you want to make it a virtue. And in life and politics, it's the worst thing to make trouble a virtue. How it won't change, man. Everything's gonna change. They'll collect both bread and milk, you're going to be equaled caviar with baby food. That there will be an 8 or a gensher equal with plain dried bread. That I don't know how to be chennel, coconut Chanel 5 is equal to this milk, etc. There won't be consequences. It'll be fine. So we have to take care of it. And in the end, if you're already invoking yourself, you've begun the experience of Europe. So again I said, only two countries in Europe actually one, Denmark has a unique rate. No one else. Well, when it's so good, it's a unique rate that they don't apply in their countries, not that they impose it on us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15196	I thank Mr. Duraković, who came out for a pay phone so he can have a broader examination, if any of the other MPs will, I will not deny it. So from today on, we have this opportunity to follow this example. Feel free to express yourself. Next up is Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15197	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished guests, although I do not consider Mr. Dikson a guest, I consider him domestic because he is headed by a domestic institution. So let me put out my thoughts about the law that's been before us for the past two months. First, let me refer to the principle adopted during the first reading and remind all of us that the law goes through two readings, first reading and second reading. That there is the possibility of amendments in the second reading, and the adoption of these amendments, as a whole, changes the principles adopted through the Commission's first reading report. So there's no dilemma here, and I think we're doing it right now. Otherwise, if you remember, what I said at the previous reading. I said that I believe the minister's proposal on a single rate is the only solution for BiH and 32 is the best solution, however, that the solution lacks social programmes. And that was why I supported the differentiated rate. In addition, my opinion was influenced by the fact that many facts I did not know, and today, after a dozen meetings and meetings and the Commission for Finance and Budgets and talks with the European Commission, the World Bank, the IMF, the KAFAO, the Management Board of indirect taxation, I do know anyway, because I think gentlemen that we are all getting up to either form or strengthen or change only if we are getting up to listen to others and their argument. I've also done it in conversation with the gentlemen mentioned, and I think I already have a vision of a recipe to get us into social programs. I went one step further, so I asked the European Commission and the World Bank and the IMF for some examples of countries that introduced social programmes and some of them I already got and some I expect. So, no, please, act like some other people live in entities, someone else is there in power. We are gentlemen and there in power, our parties are there in power and it is up to us to create social programs. All, almost all of my colleagues' statements that preceded mine have diagnosed the current picture. And indeed, that picture is black, it has hungry pensioners, it has hungry people with disabilities, demobilized BiH defenders, and it has those who work, who don't pay, that I don't talk about the unemployed, and that's the picture. And let's go, you know, we'll say so they'll collect the bread, so they'll collect the milk, please don't do anything. That's not an answer for me. For me, it's a deal, gentlemen, we work, especially us who are professionals in parliament. But I don't think there's any need to justify those who haven't been professionalized. Let them choose, work in parliament because they went from citizens to asking for votes to be here and to represent their interests. And believe me, I'm pushing my cheek to that extent to say that if Bog am alive and healthy, as you are today in front of the citizens but also in 2006 I will go out looking for their voices again and I believe I will win. And I'll vote for VAT with a single rate. The reasons for that are in fact. How am I supposed to help me incentivize, introduce incentives into agricultural production? How are we supposed to raise our pensions? How are we supposed to encourage employment? From what? My dear colleague, Mr Špirić, I really appreciate him as an expert in this area, a year ago when we traveled around the world, he used to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina lost about a billion and four million converting marks annually because of the grey economy. Well, I'm not going to participate in that kind of painting being extended. I saw when it was introduced, when the commission adopted its report and with this zero rate, how many of the new ones are required to go to that zero rate and how many of them will be. How much further we will encourage the possibility that the gray economy will continue to flourish. I don't want to take part in it actively or passively. I want to prevent the gray economy. We're talking about the example of Croatia. Croatia introduced a zero sopa to a number of products when it did not want to go to the EU. And today, when we can say it as a candidate, it has to comply with the sixth directive, and the sixth directive says that zero rates for domestic consumption is gone and must raise it. And it's not true, gentlemen, that's what I've been listening to, at these dozens of meetings, that all European countries immediately began with a differentiated rate, and let's not forget what countries they are, how arranged these countries are, countries that have not passed the fate and googogue of BiH, countries where entities have no assumed jurisdiction for all. These are arranged states, so they all started with a unique rate, all or almost everything. And we'll certainly have a differentiated rate in three or four years, once we've fixed the system. Of course we'll have it. But I only see at this rate the possibility that we can raise funds, that we have one successful VAT, that we can raise funds, that we have a social fund and through 33 entities and cantons, or if they are not able to pass it on to the state, so we, we will pass laws to encourage agricultural production, help pensioners, help the unemployed, help the poor. This is indeed confirmed by that original claim by experts from the International Community, that when these goods are zero, I actually help myself and those who have, and I don't help those who don't. So, let's just take all of us and just give it to the ones that need it. It's a principle, and I don't think there's really any point in introducing a VAT without it. So, one more time, I don't like to repeat myself, but I repeat myself, gentlemen, let's stop whining about the condition it is, but let's do something and change that state. People have chosen us for this, not to fear whether I will have a voice more or less, no matter what I intend to do with politics. I am firmly behind the Council of Ministers project and I urge you to accept my amendments that eliminate the zero rate and believe that citizens, all of this country's citizens, will thank us for this year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15198	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Replica Mr. Potočnik and be prepared Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, so Mr. Sead Avdić. Mr. Moranjkić, you are registered, I am recording Mr. Lagumdžija right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15199	Mr. Chairman, replica. Mrs. Sead, if the last time you supported the differentiated tax rate is because there are no social programs, why do you now support a unique rate and yet we don't have social programs? I mean, that brings you to a contradiction. And secondly, this is really human, I'm telling you, no bad intentions, I, if I don't know something, then ask the others and explain it to me, and then I raise or I don't raise my hand for some law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15200	The replica of Mrs. Palavrić. Please hold on, here you all have through the discussion the opportunity to look back at the debate, to hold the rhythm one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15201	I understood Mr. Potočnik's question as one truly human question, a reasonable question. Today, even though there's no social program, I know today how we're going to have it in half a year. And if no one will, I'll sit alone with experts from the Council of Ministers and I'll make it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15203	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers. First of all, after hearing this, at least what has been said so far, I think we need to look ourselves in the face and remind ourselves of what this parliament has already decided on this issue. And he decided to differentiate the rate as a principle, to be zero, medium and higher. And only the commission was allowed to decide on the height of the rate and as I recall, Mr Lagudmžij was then proposing zero, 8 and 18%. The room for maneuvers, the commission had only one when it comes to the height of the rate and the principle that it would be three feet has not been questioned. Meanwhile, due to the likely pressure, and to the members of the commission themselves, there has been a change of attitude. We should also ask our commissions how they can step away from the position of the House of Representatives because we gave it to her.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15204	Please, Mr. Gligorić, we all have a conclusion at home. I don't think we should interpret it differently to stick to the conclusion of the House. Here's me in front of me. I apologize for intervening but the commission has a mandate to submit a new report on the basis of analysis and discussions with all relevant factors.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15205	But we're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15206	Don't you dare say that these people are something. I mean, it's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15207	Well, it's all correct. Well, now it's principled whether they've strayed from the House of Representatives' position. If you think it's not, it's not a problem. But the way we're going towards the ultimate goal,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15208	You go ahead, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15209	Talk to me in favor. At the same time, the prime minister tells us that citizens will have no consequences. I would ask Mr. Terzić to answer one simple question. If it were a single rate and we have a single market in BiH, the way prices are formed you know that it is free on products etc. In what proportions will you from the Council of Ministers or Entity Government be able to influence because there is no state planning, you do not have what some MPs say there should be state interventionism in certain things. In order to protect you from raising people's prices this much, you said at the same time that if you were three feet, that would be 100, 200 or more people you would hire. If we make a parallel to fire 10 thousand people, soldiers for defence reform, if the stories of the current, the police structure are going to be 5,000 fewer people. And we've funded it all, as much as the problem is for 200 or 300 people who would engage and work, this is what I mean. That, in fact, that 35 reason is so banal that the administration doesn't stand, and at the same time you haven't made any analysis, except that you're trusted by word. And all you said, both you and Mrs. Palavrić, is just persuasion by word, without any economic analysis. We tried to run some tests last time. It's like we forgot, but I'm not repeating what's behind us either, saying that a differentiated rate can actually be a way out and a solution. As a counter today and last time you spoke, Mrs. Palavrić specifically, about crime and the gray economy. I say to you that the grey economies will continue to be, that it is a billion dollars outside of budget flows at all levels in BiH and that, of course, it should finance what makes the state institutions and everything that is related to the budget, you have actually carried only the burden on the people, because it is easier for you to tax them, to introduce that kind of tax and that kind of tax, because you cannot solve those who deal with the gray economy. It is the infirmity of the executive authorities and parliaments throughout BiH. You didn't do anything to prevent it, and we all know that it just keeps growing and rising in front of our eyes. I also believe that what the Council of Ministers suggested at first, I respect that, you are consistent, you have your principles and your reasons and I respect that. It's not a problem. But I don't understand that this assembly majority or these MPs who made the decision once, and I remember Mr Belkić when he said for the means of information that we would be able to maintain our own decision, he would be asked as a question. As if he knew, there would be either pressure or a change of consciousness based on either attitude, based on certain economic parameters that he didn't have. It's just that it's a kind of pressure. Where he comes from, it doesn't matter at all, we all suggest it, and that's why he changed his attitude with some MPs who voted in favour last time and today they vote against. And well said some citizens, but they'll fool us if we talk about the citizens. Before the elections, what Professor Špirić was talking about, he would clearly say three feet and calm our citizens and then when all this is over, the citizens will say, all those who spoke so at a unique rate will come back and deceive us. But I don't dispute that Mrs. Palavrić has her own opinion, and that she changes it like hats, as someone changes ideas, that's not the problem. That is why I think it would be good for the future to coordinate the Council of Ministers with the assembly majority a little better. I consider this your bad work. Because last time you didn't find it appropriate to turn around. At the same time, a lot of things happened and you're here today, because someone said it was absent(?) a moment, not because you have a feeling for this Parliament to objectively inform him, although there are some new circumstances, to offer us that kind of information, so that we can have a peaceful conscience make the right decision. That's missing. But, well, that's why I find the Council of Ministers underestimating practically this Parliament, because I have certain mechanisms, not just those political ones, but... from the International Community, so where they lean on which side, we and the assembly majority tend, and it doesn't necessarily mean that it's a good solution. Many solutions have been offered in other countries and you have only poverty and poverty after their reforms. We wear, as you said, responsibility and care for the citizens and responsibility for the citizens. I don't think the way we started with VAT we're going to take that degree of responsibility to our citizens. 36 And I would suggest, I would ask the MPs to really think clearly, to preserve the dignity of this House, and to vote for three feet, and in this way we really repay our citizens, and in this way to solve this issue significantly in favour of all and I tell you, then nothing will happen because what you said should practically come from honey and milk, let the bright future, the golden carriages, etc. All that you've been saying in terms of projects of social programmes in privatisation, you've never done that to these citizens, and I think it's just one transitional period in which you have to say something like that, to get it in time, to pin it on someone, it doesn't matter that this law won't be quality and it won't be in the function of our citizens and our institutions as a whole. But well, you have your obvious attitude to go in that direction, I can't support it as such, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15210	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić, let him prepare, the word of the Council of Ministers has been requested, we will give him our word, please, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15211	Well, I really tried to be as correct as possible in the introduction as possible, with as much respect as possible for this home, but it is obvious that some MPs, and in the first place I think of Mr Gligorić, simply do not deserve such a relationship. Since you do not want to talk in such a way about the key reform law, these parliamentary majority, you have the full freedom to act as such, since you do not represent the parliamentary majority, but I will remind you Mr Gligorić that you represented the parliamentary majority, that you were Minister of the Council of Ministers and that you did not think of introducing VAT into BiH. If it hadn't occurred to you to create a unique economic space, we still don't have Mr. Gligorić's unique economic space. You know why? Because you didn't introduce him when you had the chance, but the fate of this Council of Ministers and these two entity governments is to create a unique economic space and we make him Mr. Gligorić. And don't tell the people things that have nothing to do with the truth. The truth is, if we do as you suggest, Mr. Gligorić, at three feet, we'll do everything we've found after you, Mr. Gligorić. One step ensures that BiH authorities are caught in the fight against crime, with lobbys, one step ensures that we come into a position that the money we are now giving to all of those categories of people you were talking about, to turn them into social funds, a social protection system has never been introduced in BiH. It's about adhoc solutions, the laws are not implemented in this area, that I'm not talking about promotional measures for agriculture, etc. We're coming into a position to fill our budgets and not at the expense of the citizens and you're simply using fluscules that aren't true and I'm going to tell you in the end, respecting the few hundred votes you've received, you have no right to tear down the dignity of this council of ministers. This Council of Ministers until now what it has promised and has done. This council of ministers has done so far, and you've had the opportunity to hear it from Ambassador Henfris, more than any council of ministers so far. We are only working on creating a unique economic space and creating the assumption that the state pleases its citizens, and what we have inherited from you, Mr Gligorić, about being so raised, here I am not talking for 22 months. And I don't want to compare myself to the things you've had a chance to do and we're doing it now. So, when I checked in, when I said nothing was going to happen. I mean, it's correct to explain. I didn't want to take up much of your time. We're just asking you here to trust this council of ministers, I'm asking you to trust me. If I hadn't come here to fool anyone, that I didn't come here to take from the poor to give to the rich, that I didn't come here to insult domestic production, that I didn't come here to support the lobbys of foreign companies who were harassing and destroying this country, but to come to create a system. And I just think I have a human right if I ask MPs, if I can't ask all MPs, then at least I can from MPs of the parliamentary majority, give me that trust. And that if I don't show in the next few months that I can justify my trust, then put me away. But just give me that trust, I'm not asking for anything else. That's why I haven't talked about numbers, I haven't talked about numbers, I've spoken humanly in a way that you realize that my grief is that, and believe your joy should be so, that I have little more information that we have than the state infrastructure of you. And if I admit that I have no ability to control differentiated rates, so last year just remember the affair about importing seed potatoes into BiH. It is imported potatoes, depicted as seed potatoes, so as not to pay customs duties. And now we're going, we're putting on a new system and we're asking that in a liberating zero rate to put on seed potatoes, which means that we're going to continue with the same system, that they're going to import into the country and report seed potatoes and that we're going to have consummated potatoes on the markets. So, my people, I'm telling you about the real situation we have and don't bring it up. We don't destroy your integrity. I wasn't at the first law reading, because six months in advance I had an arranged visit to the Russian Federation. Oh, I didn't do anything there to look at the claws, I went there to make arrangements for the community. There was neither Minister Marić here to negotiate the issue of Russian debt, to negotiate the issue that BiH has this winter an even and smooth supply of gas, etc. So I didn't. So, the Council of Ministers didn't ask you to start discussing the VAT law at the time of the election. Look, we didn't ask you to. And I have to admit, we were caught too. It's a communication thing now. It didn't occur to me that we could discuss VAT at the time of the election, because I knew where this debate would go. So, I guarantee the citizens of BiH, that the Council of Ministers' proposal does not go to them, but, however, will help us to finance everything that needs to be financed in this country, to end criminals, to stand by corrupt civil servants, which we have both in the State Border Service and in Customs and in the Administration of Revenue, etc. and finally get in a position for entity governments to start running social policy, so we don't want social policy to run tax policy, and it just has to happen in this country. And it can happen in a way that we can introduce one rate and, look, there's more, most humanely, I guarantee you that we can't introduce a VAT with a differentiated rate. You assume we can. And I'm telling you we can't. I run the Council of Ministers, I know what an indirect tax administration is. We can't introduce a differentiated rate in the next year. Maybe three to four years from now, and there won't be any of those 25%, so today you have 10% and 20% of your taxes. Come on, guys. There will be no such gatherings. We'll also prove to you that bread doesn't need to be collected. Or it's not just 38 now you have a loaf of bread, you add 17% to it. If you're looking at it like that, it'll pick it up, but that's not it. How can we control prices? Well, we're not controlling them today. But we can. We have a way of controlling them. We will do what has not been done in BiH so far. Municipal market inspections have the opportunity and the right to control. What is done in bakeries, is it the price of bread that is, which corresponds to the elements shown, etc. All of this can be done and, when I say nothing will happen, it will only happen, that if I have to be given the opportunity to make sure that in the next six months we start introducing a VAT from which no citizen will suffer, but only have the advantage. That's why I'm saying nothing's gonna happen. And, again, I'm undermining you so I don't get back to you. You, first of all, absolutely respect your dignity, I absolutely respect that it was, but also my people, life is like that. It is clear that some pre-election rhetoric is a little different from these, but this is not about fraud, and this is not about Terzić and the jeg government trying to impose force on the villa so that they can have more money in the budgets. Here, it has been working to introduce a system that will ensure that in BiH, finally, a citizen feels the privilege of having a state.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15212	I thank Mr. Terzić. Just a little patience, please. It is that both successes and failures are common that neither the Council of Ministers nor this Parliament can. So if there was success in the adoption of the law, one reason is, the work of this Parliament. So we don't have to open that kind of debate here. We must respect your dignity, your arguments, and here the point is that here are the arguments about this law, not that we are going back to past times, and that would be to talk about future times and here are the representatives, that you are responsible for hearing your arguments, and you will always have that opportunity, Mr. Terzić, whose lecture. My lecture. This is not a lecture, this is the respect of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the House, which has confirmed you and to whom you are obliged to submit the report. If they don't, then you have an elementary problem with BiH's institutional structure. Not a lecture, but one correct warning, because you gave us all a lecture. I just gave you a proper tour. Nothing else. No class. Nor do I intend to give you a lecture and, I apologize if you thought it was a lecture. But I am protecting this home, the Rules of Procedure and all the people and the Council of Ministers and MPs and their position in the process of discussing a very important law and, please, do not replicate, I have avoided replicas and at the beginning of your presentation and asked people to have a constructive discussion. And now I want it, nothing else. And there's no need to look back now, but if there are arguments through the discussions on the proposals that have been made, I'm asking you not to enter into any further replicas. Here, I insist there are no more replicas like this. So understand once and my position. Well, he can't, Mr. Gligorić. Well, I'm not taking your right, so why don't you cooperate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15213	I have to defend him, at least with a few hundred votes, as the prime minister says. First of all, Mr. Terzić, I appreciate what you said in the part where you want to, as an individual, take responsibility for some important things in society and I really appreciate it. But I'm also asking you, given that I am not the point of the agenda here, but the VAT law, just to say, that I did nothing wrong in the 39 previous procedure, the previous period when I was in the Council of Ministers, when he was chaired by Mr. Martin Raguž. We left you, at the shortest, one good basis that you can do well and quality work. So, and now the passport, if you see it, is thanks to Mr. Gligorić, who you have and around the world are walking, it's a small matter, because I opened you up to go into the world, it's done, there's a small Srbin, one Gligorić Tihomir, and, at the same time, to remind you when it was necessary to vote for Mr. Raguž for the mandate, that I was the only one that voted for and I had a series of objections and reactions and problems, just because I thought that man could be a good prime minister and today I think that such a man will be safe in the future or we should find such a man. At the time he led the Council of Ministers, he took care of the starting position and BiH. I was part of his team, and that's why I supported him and I feel like I didn't do anything wrong to be ashamed of. You now have the position and opportunity to establish the single market you're talking about. Who's stopping you from doing that? You've got authority, you've got support, you've got one comfortable situation, and you haven't done anything. It's not Tihomir Gligorić's fault. Therefore, but not to spread that story, you have, however, taught me a lesson, and I would pray when you spoke of dignity, that you respect these few hundred voters who voted for me, because there is no difference in this parliament between any of the 42 MPs. I respect and respect everyone equally, there are small and large parties, but I ask you that when we sit here, then everyone should be respected, because that, and I am a part of this Parliament. I can help or I can help, but it's a matter of my actions and not my actions and may be the subject of this debate, but no humiliation. And, I beg you, Mr. Chairman, which you did, however, allow me to speak and, if at some point I didn't think I was speaking, because you said quite enough in that part, but I didn't want to criticise it, but I simply wanted to find a solution, and that is why we feel that you didn't give enough argument and ultimately I think that this council of ministers, I have nothing against him, but I think that the song of what he's been doing so far, that he's incapable of exercising power, and I would very much like to show you the mistrust.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15214	Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go, Mr. Avdić. I thank Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15215	I think that Mr. Chairman, emotions are not a good ally or politicians, especially in BiH, so I plead that we simply go back to a real system law, which is a test for this parliament and the state of BiH. I would say there was no more important law in BiH than the signing of Dejton. That's what I said last time, but I'd also say there's no more improvisation than the co-existence and information and knowledge about this law. My colleague Špirić said it quite well. The Council of Ministers should bear one degree of criticism, which is without an analytical document, which will prove the position and figure of 17% or 0%, simply does not send the law into the procedure. These are parliamentarians of different professions and professions, neither at the same level of education nor information. And don't use the Council of Ministers' advantage in terms of 40 because it has more information, in the sense that it can keep Parliament in a subordinate sense. So I feel the need, last time we agreed to get an analytical document with this law. It doesn't have to be a simulation, is it, Špir, but it's just one math analyst that's going to prove really these numbers in law and there's no doubt about it. Under three, I ask you, if it's in any way possible that we're not trying to extract political profit from this law, we're going to take the country into chaos. I'm warning some. There's no political profit here, so no party for any club. If someone is trying to bring the country into a kind of chaos, in my opinion, criminal legal corruption and everything else that is part of the characteristics of the present BiH, it is already a serious issue. We all have the same goal here. Don't let us throw big words at each other. Don't let us throw big words at each other. Care for the common man, the socially-inflicted kaegories, the wartime military disabled, etc. Don't say it again. Who are you repeating it to? You don't need to convince anyone, not one MP in this room. Which means that, not to manipulate this difficult social situation in BiH, we are not simply trying to take it as an argument for, simply some other things that are hidden in this law, and I'm going to tell you illustrations about, social policy is, however, not guided by this law or fiscal tax policy. Social policy is run by social programs. That's a fact. That's how you do it in organized auctions, that's the system. Eh, now, in the minds of ordinary people in BiH, an opinion has been addressed through that zero rate, we could do something and that consciousness has prevailed and that's the problem now. Now BiH has a problem, indeed, Mr. Chairman, you know well. This zero rate has prevailed in the minds of ordinary people and they expect this Parliament to vote for a zero rate and that is the problem, and we have partly made it all together, in terms of generating the situation etc. Four, what kind of state we have, should we repeat in what a simple environment and a safe, criminal and any other. I don't need to argue, but I'll just tell you next. One firm currently owes the state, for reasons of unclear customs regulations, and the process is being conducted before the Supreme Court of BiH, amounting to 89 million marks. It's been going on for ten years. You know why? Because only the court can't decide whether it was raw material, or a semi-factory for BiH's imports, or whether it was a finished product imported into BiH, and then later reselled, 89 million marks and owed to the BiH state, you know how many, 34 million marks. It's just a little detail of the chaos that exists in the black politics, out of the inability to recognize simply because it is a semi-factory, or that it is a finished product. Let me give you no argument, one MP wrote here nicely in more... cannons, let's say, suggesting fuel release and oil to perform mechanized operations. It is the agricultural and food industry, etc. Well, then tools, machinery, equipment, spare parts to perform the prescribed technology operation, and then systems, spare parts to defend against elementary accidents, and then packaging for packaging agricultural products. Believe me, I'll get the car, I'll buy the spare parts, I'll get the fuel, I'll buy the bus, I'll buy the freight truck, all without the VAT, because I'm reregistering my company. Ijati manage very quickly. It doesn't take much knowledge or thief intelligence to reach this law, to play it, and to make this law funny, which means we can simply, by our reckless decisions, introduce the state into a kind of chaos, from the aspect of the functioning of this law. No state, Niaz, has immediately introduced a multi-stage differentiated 41 VAT rate, or Ireland, which is a state, which means to me as a state in this one transition, eight years after the war, just evaluate whether we have such a criminal justice system. Do we have such a legal state, if we have such awareness at such a level, that we can enforce this law. I say no. He can't enforce the law. And then there'll be chaos. And, uh, heisting ordinary people. Which means, I'm asking you, please, take a good look at all the alternatives. Do not reject what the international community thinks, as rarely when it has the right part in this law, as rarely when in BiH. He's entitled to this law, which means, by menu, a way out of this situation next. In the minds of the people this zero rate entered and we can hardly change that. It's hard to change without political consequences. So, to accept 17 percent and zeroth rates, as the Commission has proposed, for political reasons, not scientific, methodological and other reasons, but for political reasons a zero rate. This restricts five years of application of this law and after five years of going quite clearly so that this country would function as a legal state, go to a differentiated and multi-stage VAT in BiH, and thus solve to the most extent part of the problem. And stick to the Council of Ministers and look for a new year of social programmes and allow people, that, regardless of this zero rate, on the one hand and on the other, but when we take care of ordinary people, who so far has not thought of and some people are proposing a law on social policy for the citizens of BiH. We don't have the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15216	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Felić. Let Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself, then Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, then you are Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will brief on the amendment that I have submitted and which I wish to defend at the plenary session of this House, which, on the Commission, has not passed. I hope the MPs have received the amendment, all of which refers to Article 39(5), where a new sentence is to be added. In the event of a delay in any payment, the person will be required to pay a tight interest for the outstanding amount in accordance with the law. In my explanation, however, I said the law was clearly defined when the tax liability was imposed, payment of the tax liability, but nowhere was it specified what if the taxpayer did not pay the tax liability at the time provided for in the law. At the Commission meeting, the amendment was not accepted. There was a misunderstanding about, to say the opposite approach, if, if it's a tax return and if the state, the administration and the indirect taxation offices don't do their duty to return, what in that case. However, it is clear in Article 52 of this Act, the return of the entry tax, each tax credit, is meant to be the amount which the person does not want to return, but to be converted into a credit for the payment of the tax liabilities for the next period, not used for a period of six months, is returned to the obligor who does not receive the VAT difference within the period laid down in Articles 3 and 4 of this Article, having the right to interest at the rate prescribed by the prescribed law, 42 which regulates the rate of tightened interest, starting from the first day after the expiry of 30 days after the date of application for VAT. So the relationship was regulated when VAT returns were made, however, the relationship was not resolved when the tax liability was exceeded or not paid within the time limit laid down by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15218	I thank Mr. Hazim. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try some things myself for a while to clear up, but loudly. To speak of the importance of this law is now unnecessary, because we all know its importance, but what I have to say, is that, by the appearance of this law or by the order of driving or under pressure, that at that time it appears on this stage, it appeared with a proposal such as it came before the MPs and there is the end of that 17% so-called. unique standard rates. Two groups were immediately created, she said yes and she didn't. They are for, and these are normally legislators of such a law and those who are with these promoters, so they said that this rate and such a bill allows a stable tax system, to enable the system, to allow simpler application and accounting techniques, to prevent abuses and crime, in which, under number one, fictitious firms and abuses of proesis evasion will be included, that this system will allow for better budgeting and better functioning of the state. That's what it stands for. Right away, one remark, one of these says, no price disturbances will be made. That's not true. Because so far in these areas there were goods and services that were not taxed on, and it is normal and common to a man, who can add one and one, that when you add 17 to him, and he didn't have until then, he would collect it. The question arises as to what this collection will react to. It immediately came to the fact that these are the most sensitive categories of goods and services, which affect the most sensitive categories of people, are therefore social categories, and immediately there was an explanation that this would be covered, which is again normal with social programmes and these social programmes will be tasked to eliminate this negative side and to solve the problem. However, the other side of the anti-, has formed opinions, which have said, that VAT appeared at a bad time, that there will be an accumulation of such a scale, which will lead to inflation and devaluation, and this galloping, that there will be a collapse and such a little miserable economy in this country, that there will be new unemployment and new social unrest. The first group and the second group were brought here at previous sessions of this parliament. No one has found themselves responsible, at least the one who offered this bill, to pick this up now and in a certain way confirm or deny it. That's what's missing and what's already two, three colleagues of the previous said that, so, the remarks that were made here were well-intentioned or maliciously just released into the air and no one followed them anymore, but with the same thing that initially appeared in these benches. 43 I support the conclusion and opinion of Mr. Avdić, who has come to the conclusion that a thought has been created in this people's heads, which is, and that is, to believe the Council of Ministers that they will create a social programme for us, which will prevail. The question arises when and whether one, two, three, four or ten days will wait for someone not to eat bread until the program is done. So that someone who appeared with this proposal should come and say that we are behind the fact that along with 1.7, social programs will come into effect, which will cover that too. However, this is what now creates trust or does not trust in these benches, to which Mr. Alluded by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. What I don't owe, what I think at this time is that here, however, you should try to keep it, but with a good analysis of the goods system or part of the goods, which should be left at zero and those to which you should apply the standard, uniform of 17% and I, as an MP, can only vote and vote for such an approach. Thank you very much. It's a practical report from the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15220	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15221	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, guests, I will briefly. Since we on the subject of tax on additional value these days both on the commission and on the media, I think we have had a lot of exposure and a lot of talk about this, opinions and with Mr. Terzić, most of whom here today took part in the work. I will, in fact, introduce you to my position and my colleagues from the SDS Club. First, I see the word revised here. So I'm being asked by the press if you've been audited. I want to say that my personal position on the Commission and my colleagues' position, that we stayed on the background of what was in the beginning of September that we had concluded here together and put it on the Commission's task, so I acted on the Commission, that we talked about more rates and that we accepted that the zero rate and the rate of 17% is something that was acceptable for the reality in BiH at this point, with the fact that we wanted to be correct and to avoid exactly the team's traps that someone would cross and avoid all those who wrote justifiably unjustly, so that they should follow that zero rate and we said that this zero rate was the minimum of all the minimums and, you saw that what was adopted on the Commission is a real minimum, so, most importantly. Why? We have initiated a joint, also, conclusion, according to the Council of Ministers, where we say that zero must exist because we do not have a social policy adequately done and that we do not have protection for the most vulnerable population. I'll say this time, it's not an objection to the Board of Direct Taxation. They've been doing the right thing by a bill, and they've come out with the bill here. My point is that the Council of Ministers, working on one law, completely closed its eyes, completely closed its eyes to one segment of life, that segment is an unproduced social policy, and I believe that the biggest failure has been made there. The energy spent here to work on this law and to convince why the law is good, if only one part had been divided, and that the common people who signed consent to this law had worked on social policy measures, we here today would have a situation to protect the most vulnerable part of the dream of 44 percent of those who are poor and on the poverty threshold, it has already been said here. We admit 40% that it's near the threshold, which is poor, which is close to the threshold. Only they know how many there are. So I think it was unserious to go into this business, not doing parallel to this segment. I don't think it's too late to do something about it, and at that point in time, when we have a social policy adopted with exact indicators and how to solve the need for a zero rate. As for the past two months, what I've just said, we've said it and nobody believes it, nothing has changed, and I really want all voters to live and welcome the next election and vote for whoever they want, but they need health care, they need these drugs or at least the money and the protection system to get them. This isn't a campaign. The campaign's over. It's about us showing seriousness to our population. Where, I also see space. I see space in the fact that we have confessed here. It's not just the law, we've got incompetent people working on some jobs, so we're past seed potatoes like edibles. Believe me, I'm no expert on this, but there's no way anyone can sell me seed potatoes that I use as edible. So it's just that someone closed their eyes and passed that potato. Therefore, gentlemen, I think we have instruments and solutions, that people, if those who do this work don't need to do it. We have enough people on the bureaus or people who are capable of doing that job. And I'm changing the law and saying that seeds shouldn't, at this point, be exempt from sales taxes, because there's a corrupt customs officer standing somewhere, and someone's driving past him carrying seed potatoes like edible or vice versa, and that's not a single housewife who's illiterate. You know what's what. Therefore, the problem is in people, not in laws. And there are problems here and a little more goodwill and a common dialogue. So much for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15222	Thank you, Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15223	Mr. Chairman, thank you, I'm sorry there is no Prime Minister. I hope there are people here who can tell him that. I want to express my support to you, in one unsuitable gesture, which you have heard from the Prime Minister here, because the President of Parliament can give the Prime Minister a speech, if he wants a lecture, and the reverse is not valid in any country and I am sorry that the Prime Minister will not hear it live now. We systematically disagree here, a number of us and the people who come from the Council of Ministers, and it needs to be very clear that here we accept it as a fact and everyone should be responsible for the moves they want to make. We are all obliged here, regardless of whether we are from power or opposition, to say here and to try the strength of the argument, not by force which is the only argument, to convince each other, because I agree with 45 of those who said that no one would benefit from this if we go the wrong way. I think this council of ministers is taking us on the wrong path. And I don't agree systematically. This, among other things, will indeed lead to very rough social disorders in this country. And I know as well as anyone else, that social policy cannot only be guided through tax policy, but I disagree with those who think tax policy should be blind, to social issues. And unfortunately, especially in a country like us where we don't even have monetary policy, we don't have other financial instruments in our hands, we don't have any other macroeconomic governance mechanisms and state-level planning. We can't say as a state parliament, we're giving you hot potatoes, which is called this inappropriate tax system, and then you're some other gentlemen who are in entities or in municipalities or in cantons, you're in charge of social policy. It can't do that. If we want to be responsible people, we tie our decisions today to social programs, but be careful not only for social programs declarative, conclusions, but these social programs must have their reflection for next year. These social programmes must have a reflection in the established mechanisms, which will monitor the introduction of VAT, which will clearly lead to social tensions. So whoever thinks we can settle for the conclusion today, guy, don't worry about it, we're going to introduce social programs, make a conclusion about the social programme, it's not serious and it's better to, it's better now, it's better, the election's only in two years. It is better to swallow bitter pills now than to sow before some elections explain why something is missing and why something is missing. Let me remind you, this is where the prime minister said why we disagree systematically. We disagree systematically, among other things, because the prime minister here told us that if a single tax rate is not introduced, if there is a lower rate, let's say 8% conditionally, and if something is zero, then they can't meet the obligations they've made. introduce VAT within deadlines, which we all expect will be met. So that's one argument, which is quite a serious argument. The other thing is, I think it's an argument, after which the prime minister should say if there's anyone to know how to introduce it, so let him go and let others who know and can introduce it. I think that someone sitting in a position that they say they can't meet, that it's not an argument that we all say bravo, Master, you move on where you are as you are, explained to us that you don't know it, and you can't. Why am I taking this one? I have arguments, Mr. Chairman. The people sitting here, who are also part of the ruling structure, who were also two or three years ago, who well know that the adoption of the document "Work and Justice", defined a very clear time horizon, in which an additional value tax would be introduced, and then, I remember well after this Parliament there were words, especially when the High Representative here told us that the realistic date was 1.7.2004. So we said in 2005, and then it turns out that it could be up to 1.7.2005, and as it started it would be 1.1.2006, and I am responsible for saying, so let my colleague Azra, who was in the Council of Ministers or counterpart Belkić, who knows it well either from a colleague of Križanović or someone else here. When, even when it comes to VAT, no one thought to say it was a problem, if it's zero from a technical point of view. I am responsible for saying that every student, since here is my colleague Professor Duraković, who is an expert in international relations, says that in the world this is not normal, what we are offered here, I fully accept that argument. I, since you called me as a professor, 46 information technologies, claim that who would come with this argument to say, in today's computer era, that it's hard to have different tax rates, I would have shot him down in the first year of college, so he couldn't throw it here. So the argument of a guy, this is complicated, we don't know it, and especially the argumentation of a guy our people won't know how to calculate a zero, it's even offensive to a man who doesn't have any school, let alone who claims to smart up and give a lecture. I also want to say here that at that time when we were proposed to introduce VAT here, we thought that the starting point, when the time diagram of activity was being made, then we were, our initial position was, that the existing zero, in the entity's poetry systems was zero, that the existing 10% would be in VAT and that the existing 20% would be 20% in VAT, then our starting position was and that it was no problem, with that being heard about here that 40, 50 and I don't even know how much, the income remains uncontained from it being concluded that, if VAT increased the collection of tax revenues by 40 or 50%, then we don't need 10 or 20, then we need less rates than those. It doesn't have to be a scientist to finish this. I also want to make it clear that in September, when we discussed here, I did not insist that those amendments be defined as SDPs or mine. I considered that, and especially this, once again I take the opportunity to thank the members of the Commission for the procedure at hand, who, at that time, accepted the argument that we have a rate of 8, 18 and zero. And, then, just because it was pre-election times, I didn't think it was necessary for us to give someone a lecture now that we remembered it was 8 and 18, and that's where Parliament accepted it. We have accepted it as the position of this House. However, in the last session of the Commission, colleague Kragulj as president of the Commission and I remained in the minority and we opposed this. True, I don't know if it's okay if another member of the Commission has joined us, he's also not a professional MP, and he's also a doctor, but it's not about why I am,... when they have opposed this position of the Commission. The Commission has proposed what we now have in front of us. In order to clarify, please, the attitude of both my and the Club of MPs and the people who are close to what we are trying to advocate is that, for a large number of those who are now barely making ends meet, the adoption of the proposal, which was given by the Commission. So that's my attitude. Second position, the acceptance of the amendment by Mrs Palavrić in front of the SDA's Club of MPs, i.e. the acceptance of the request of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, means, practically, the introduction into something for which the word disaster is insufficient, social first of all. And we don't want any part of it. We want to warn you in time, and if you adopt that, we will keep going back and forth, to warn you to return it. So, the amendments we've given, I want to explain them, because this is an amendment phase. I'll ask after the chairman, to make every amendment known, as is the case, but let's say what it is. 47 The Commission, compared to what we concluded last time, cast out an 8% rate and then the Commission threw out that zero, as SDP proposed and introduced a conditionally said half of that zero. The number of those who are zero has been doubled. What was thrown away from that month and a half. The amendment I, which defines that the printing and publishing services of books and brochures have been excluded, so only the books remain at zero, and not the printing and publishing services, especially the borschura, magazines and publications, professional and scientific character, then the second amendment, which says that they have now been taught by the Commission's will, therefore, only school textbooks, but the learning and information communication technologies that have been expelled from school to higher education. Then, the third amendment talks about it, and that's what was particularly shocking to me, that the daily and Sunday newspapers were thrown out, and the official votes from zero to one sense, so when someone turned on the light again was zero, so when the war came up zero, so when the war was over, there was zero again in both entities, and now we have to sanction what the Commission did five days ago, which is that the daily and weekly press is taxed with 17%, there is no country in Europe, which will explain to us that it had to be done. Amendment IV, food without concentrate, and that's where my colleague Belkić and I differ, he added that seed afterwards, and I accept his argument. Afterwards, you added everything you voted on on the Commission to get kicked out, it's okay. Clearly, he changed his attitude. There's no problem. I prefer it more than how it changed Mrs. Palavrić's attitude, who last time talked about something she said she had no idea what she had to change her attitude about. I prefer your attitude now than the one on the Commission. Then, the fifth amendment, the medical aids and medical aids, were thrown out on the commission. They have been expelled from the Commission. We do not need to explain that these are prosthetics and all the medical help they provide. Spare the adjective. The sixth amendment speaks of dairy products, including baby food, made from milk. Only milk remains on the Commission. Oh, that's out. This amendment brings back what you have accepted. It's got great, it's got baby food, so this is where the other dairy products are added. And, at the end of the adjudication VII. Amendment VII, a lower VAT rate, is introduced on the market of imputes for agricultural products as well as for the results of primary agricultural production itself. For wartime primary products, cereals, vegetables, feed plants, herbs, industrial, fruit and vineyard primary products, cattle and poultry, except for alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is 8%. So, all that are imputes in food production, including what is the ultimate article, not the imput, and the result is primary production. In other words, carrots, and already when the carrot is in this package, it's too deep into something, then it's 17%, and here it's clear what it is. I also want to make it clear that all of what I've put here as zero, that's now zero, right now, and there are mechanisms by which this is being combined with zero. And now what's here is 8%, now it's 10%. So, it's coming together. There are mechanisms from us to recognize who this is doing, and when it comes to crime and corruption, I also, very clearly think it should be said here, it's not done by esteemed colleagues and gentlemen, it's not done here, it's not registered here yet that 48 has been smuggled bread. It hasn't been registered here yet that someone was smuggling cattle, showing that they were cakes, and in fact, they were importing cattle. That hasn't happened yet. With the potato seed, eh, we'll get to colleague Avdić now, we'll get to the calculations now. Eh, now the calculations. The calculation given to us also by the head of the international community, the VAT base by the calculation that was once presented to us is 9 billion 540 million and 50 000 KM. The calculations we've been told are, Mr. Dominister, one billion and three hundred ninety-nine, nine hundred and eighty-three. It's one of the calculations we've been given. Right, IMF. There. Even better. So, the calculations of the IMF, which you've given us so far as a major argument. Bread, milk, oil, books and printings, which is covered by the SDA's Club of Representatives, amounts to 240 million. Agricultural products, assuming that agricultural transport is about 20% of agricultural products, means additional tax, and the base is a billion and nine hundred and eight, when you multiply by 17% you will see that you will reach about 400, excuse me, 360 million. If we accept the argument that we are giving, which is that 8%, so this way only in those two elements, the budgets will be burdened familyly, or additional taxes will be taken in excess of 400 million marks, only for bread and milk and the basics of those agricultural products, the new 400 million taxes. What does that mean? This means that every family in BiH will be caught on a new 500 marks a year, but since that money will settle in a different way, then virtually every single one of these families in this country will be taken from their pockets, and that's why eight hundred families in this country will receive half a million marks. Because it'll calm down. In other words, this calculation that you have here, one family in this country will become your tax introduction half a million richer on average, and that will make a thousand families poorer by 500 marks. So, so much for calculations. These are calculations to those who smile a little, these calculations are much more serious than the arguments we've heard, which is if Mr Lagumdzija SDP's proposal is accepted, then our people are going to make sugar bread, so they're going to sell cookies as bread, that's the easiest thing to say for any unserious debate an extraordinary argument and that's what those who laugh at my calculations are going to get 500,000 marks on one family, it's going to pay a thousand families per 500 marks out of their pocket against. We're against it and we're going to be, not Katarina, but Marijantonet, and possibly Kantarina, but obviously there are people here who don't know that Katarina and Marijantonette have long lived and the problem of this country is not that. Also the calculations when it comes to it. I want to bring out the calculations here, too, because it keeps insisting that we're blushing without calculations, please. Calculation says this way. Since you've all claimed here, from the authorities, that about 40% of the funds are now being raised, here's what I'm offering is a calculation that VAT collects 20% more, not 40% as much as it's not being collected, but there's half of it to be handled, by calculating to the IMF's figures, to 6,250 million, etc., if it increases by 20%, and you apply the rate of 17%, you can have zero for full agriculture, the complete food industry, and all of what we've given as zero. 49 If 30% more can be collected, then it is possible to have a 15% VAT, 5% for agriculture and nutrition and zero for what we have suggested. So much for the calculations for today. And if we add PRSP to that, here's what's important for our PRSP company, it's said that it's going to reduce public spending over the next two years. If it's going to cut public spending, then this is how much harvesting we don't need. Unless someone thinks we've given up the PRSP, but I don't want to knock down the numbers below 15%, believe it or not because of Directive No 6 because Directive No 6 listed here as an argument is faked in public and even in this House. Directive number six says. Otherwise, the 1977 Directive is a very fresh Directive, from 1977 relating to sales tax, the common VAT system, which has been introduced we know when and which has been amended so far by 11, 10 and 18 of the 89 Directive, and then we have 18 changes in total from 2002 to 2002, and then the additions to the entry of Greece, Spain and Portugal have been amended and corrected three times in '92, '93. And in 2001, and it defines a partial territorial application, and be careful, first of all, we're not here territorially. And that directive defines exceptions for those who are there. So even if we're inside, we can go with exceptions. In order to be precise, Directive 6 of Article 12 of that 3.a. The change in M14 since 1999 says that Member States can have one or two reduced rates and they cannot be less than 5%. So it could be 15 and 5, if you're going to get into serious calculations. Directive 2006/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the protection of personal data (OJ L 318, 30.12.2008, p. 1). That is, the 12rd point of the M19 amendment in 2001, unlike the M14, which I just read, says the standard rate cannot be less than 15%, but Directive 6 of Article 12(2) of the M6 amendment of '92. says, in the case of an amended Member State rate, they may adopt all appropriate transitional measures. Therefore, Directive 6 states that transitional measures can exist. In other words, if we now introduce a zero and a five, we can do so with transitional measures, as some countries have done and those in the European Union. And we who, unfortunately we're not, are only entitled to transitional measures until we enter the waiting list. That's why, Mr. Chairman, since I consider this an extremely important thing, I want, since I've been elected by people of over 100 votes and I've been elected by two votes... I've spoken, I want to do a manetogram here to say all this from this pay phone, because there is no more important place to say this. I fully agree with my colleague Avdić, that there is no more important law, which this Parliament had and I believe that what we are being offered today, is directly against the interests of the state, against the interests of the people who have chosen us all both power and opposition. I also think, respected colleagues, that fighting crime and filling the budget is not a high tax rate. We stand for less and I don't want to tear your mind right now, to hit the wound you have in front of the international community, to you from the ruling alliance. It can stay 17 is not a problem, but 0 and 8 is necessary. I think that even if you apply it, I responsibly say that with these means, if you start using it, so much resources can be raised, that you will be making budget rebalances and that you will reduce these rates and, ultimately, as far as the social programme is concerned. We find it totally unacceptable that the social programme is clouding the disaster we're going to be in. We think it's possible, as some kind of compromise, to maybe adopt what we've proposed, with 0.8 and 17 and make preparations, to form 50 administrations, to optimize everything, and then to make social programs, and if we make social programs and mechanisms, and then when it comes to 1.7.2005, then finely sits in parliament, and we say, this zero and this eight, we don't have to anymore, it certainly wasn't, and it doesn't start from tomorrow, and this world in front of klasa Berize, there's not going to be that much order anymore, and then it's going to be gone at all, and then we're going to go at a nice start. And, in the end, Mr. Chairman, I'm saying this, not because I'm making some people nervous, but because one day when we're really in the European Union, someone can read what we're talking about today, walk on these stenograms, so at least it's time to come up with someone saying it this way. Staying in the minority or most of it is all one thing, as far as I'm concerned. The other minorities or most of them, as far as I'm concerned, I'll keep coming back to this and every time we come back to you on this subject, in three months and in six months, and when you introduce the VAT and when you come with the excise law, and when you come back with any other subject, we'll come back to this again. We'll go back to this and the property robbery law. And if you care so much about criminals, here's a chance to get the law on robbed property passed as soon as possible so we can push this VAT in the right way. Dake, we're going back to this and I'm not going to let someone one day write that we've all been acting deaf here, like we're domestic traitors, terrified in front of foreign occupiers. That's just not true. Neither are we, all of us here are that, nor are these people who make us foreign occupiers, well, if we agree to their dictatorships, then it's suspicious what we are and what they are. And I honestly think that we are indeed chosen people from this people, who will primarily act in harmony with our obligations to their voters and thus help even these Henfriz, who have convinced Adnan that it is best.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15224	Thank you. Did anyone look for a replica? Mrs. Palavrić, you're not. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15225	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I did not speak of the essence of this law at the last session of Parliament. I was very careful at that session, which is why I believe that the basic problem of this law, which in BiH, as regards this law, is not an adequate way to conduct a public debate, which is why BiH citizens are not presented with all possible calculations related to this law and that I am not in a position to listen to some private calculations. As an MP in the state parliament, I have the right and I want to hear official calculations when it comes to this law. Furthermore, there is an impression, after certain discussions here in Parliament today, that there is a whole group of people here, who are to collect bread and make life worse for socially endangered categories. It's an impression, from some discussions, that's the impression you get. You see, I want to tell these people right now that they have the wrong attitude. I do not think that the advocates of the single rate are at the same time interested in collecting 51 basic life products to the most vulnerable categories of the population, nor do I consider that the advocates are more than a rate of people who do not care about the effective collection of income in this country. I want to make a decision based on the facts. What are the indisputable facts? All European Union countries, when VAT was introduced, for the first time, so when VAT was introduced, and BiH is now introducing VAT for the first time, introduced it with a single rate. That's a fact. The question arises why they did it, and they certainly had a tax administration, which is better trained than ours today. Because they wanted an efficient and functional system and, after a few years, the law is not a sacred letter. The law can change. We're changing the law here in Parliament. They went at differentiated rates. Secondly, there are numerous international organisations in BiH, among other things tasked with keeping track and helping BiH's financial stability. I have participated in several meetings on this law and the World Bank and the IMF and CAFAO, and experts from OHR advise us to accept a single tax rate at the moment when we introduce VAT for its effective functional establishment. Why, if I don't have other calculations, would I be in a position to believe some of the private calculations I hear here today in Parliament, and yes, let's just say I don't believe the calculations of those who, among other things, are obliged to take care of the financial integrity of this country. Next, the VAT law is, I agree with the negotiators very important and very important law. There are all laws relating to all BiH citizens, but there is a law that applies in practice to ten BiH citizens, to 1% of BiH citizens, and there is a law that applies to 100% of BiH citizens, which is this law and I agree with that finding, which is why I believe it was necessary to conduct a broader debate. This is where I didn't hear the other side of the story. I want to talk about that other side of the story. Who in BiH tomorrow or what we will do in Parliament will be responsible when we adopt a differentiated rate despite clear warnings that it leads immediately to the start of a lossful public income and to lead to major abuses and, when the BiH fixed system is brought into crisis. Who will bear responsibility then? And we have serious warnings from people who understand in this area that BiH's financial system will fall. That's how I understand it. Because they say, when we talk about bread, there are several hundred items that can be subdued under that definition. When we talk about potatoes, when we talk about milk, a few hundred items that can be swept under that impression, the term. We've already had an example here. Mr. Avdić, I think he mentioned it when it comes to seed and consumer potatoes. All BiH potatoes will be seedy, of course, through papers. In reality, it's actually going to be consummated potatoes. So I invite all of us colleagues to take care of the next one. Our common goal should be to establish an effective and functional VAT system in BiH. The most efficient and functional possible VAT system at the moment. And secondly, to protect BiH's construction of those who will be socially endangered or who will be in a more difficult social situation, I do not dispute it when this law is passed. What's the road? Is the path to collapse the system immediately at the start, because if it collapses immediately at the start, and they say it will collapse, be careful. No social programs, then. Or the way 52 is to make a stable system and take care of social programs and protect the most vulnerable categories of the population. I think it's the right way and it's the right approach and that's why I'm the advocate of a single VAT rate. It should be so defined by this law and, of course, I am the advocate to make sure that the competent authorities are in charge of adopting appropriate social programmes to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population. I don't get the explanation, that's, please, a nice, completely flat-rate explanation. There's a colleague here who says, "Don't talk about social programs, it's not gonna happen." Please, I am saying this, as an MP in the state parliament, behind whom voters also stand, the voters, taking care of the interests of this country and its citizens. It is possible, therefore, to create an efficient and functional system, which is therefore a one-foot law and can lead an adequate policy of social protection of the most vulnerable categories of the population in BiH. Don't condition each other, because here each other doesn't rule out, here both things have to go cumulatively. 'Cause whoever's off is not good. And the solution is, therefore, what we have, therefore, to adopt Mrs. Palavrić's amendments and to pass the law with one foot. And, in the end, I'm an advocate and these variants. So this is my primary proposal, what I'm about to say right now, is actually not affecting my proposal. But I'd like to, I'm invited by Mr. Špirić's discussion and Mr. Avdić Sead's discussion, I don't think that, in my opinion, it was a very serious discussion today, I'm not going to say that the others were inconclusive, but the menu did, I think here in this room, when it comes to this law, we should have one panel, which will show all the mathematics about this law. What is the level of income now in BiH? What will be the level of income in BiH when the rate is like this, as proposed? What, please, will you just listen to me for a second? So, to show the mathematical, financial situation related to the realisation of this law. People say that math exists. I know the I.D.A. has this math, but we haven't seen it here in the state parliament. And I believe that many of the discussions that we have heard here in Parliament today, if it had been shown here publicly that the public saw it, would have been different, not as we listen to them. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15226	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. You'll get the word, Mr. Lagumdžija, just to say I only have one application left, and that's Mr. Križanović. I'm going to propose a break after that before the amendment is made so that we can freshen up a little bit, and here's the deal, let's stick to that deal. Here's Mr. Lagumdžija replica. The debate Mr. Križanović and the break. Go ahead, you can check in all the time if you want. Have you checked in, ma'am?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15227	Because here, in a certain way, it's polluted with the so-called private calculations that are heard. Namely, the only calculation that, unfortunately explicitly, is how much I heard, my calculations that belong to the category of private ones and it is a private measure that I personally agree with. However, this is a calculation which, as I said last time, was created as a result of the more serious group of experts I mentioned, which contained all the calculations I gave, was based on input data, which he gave us at the only meeting, at which any figure, 53 representatives of the international community, was offered, with the consent of the Council of Ministers. So, unfortunately, we haven't gotten a single calculation so far except for this so-called. Private and questionable whether to trust the only calculator or not, then I think that, however, the only, unfortunately, is the only one we have. Why aren't we getting calculations? There's still a question for others. The calculations we've been running around here, which have been claimed to exist and the calculations, which even more brutally justify what I've been saying, and that there wouldn't be a misunderstanding, I want to, and I want to clarify Mr. Chairman, I, indeed, if there was a prime minister there, I would have told him. I really don't think he's the man who came here to take from the poor and give to the rich, or to work for some lobbies, or to believe that anyone in the Council of Ministers has come to do such a thing. But objectively, this kind of suggestion makes it objective, and that's why we're obliged to warn and I'm not angry with anyone about it, because forgiveing a man is possible because he didn't know what he was doing. That's why we're saying to warn about what's done and to make it clear. Whatever we decide today, since the question has been asked who is responsible for this, I think that if you accept what you will for the majority of the Council of Ministers, responsibility will be borne by whoever accepts that majority. Don't call those who warned you later. Because the social program has and doesn't have it and let's get that straight. I'm here to make social programs, and I'm not against them, but when social programs are made, then we can introduce such rates, but first we can introduce rates, and then we'll say apply them, and social programs... if they can't. It's just, I'm the same for social programs and social programs first.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15228	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15229	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, Since, behold, I am the last debater, I will, indeed, be very brief not to repeat what was said today, and especially what was said at the 43rd session, when we discussed this law in our first reading. I just want to point out that I'm convinced that today in this room of all of us, there is no one who is against the adoption of the VAT law and I think we could agree entirely there. Now the question is what kind of law we want, because as we have all said here before, the law is so important for all BiH citizens, because it applies to all BiH citizens. And, you see, it's important that I don't list this to ensure macroeconomic stability, fiscal sustainability, a single economic space of BiH. Very important. You see, today after a long debate and a month of public debate, we don't have about such an important law today, but no new arguments would convince us about this basic issue one or more tax rates. I don't doubt the good intentions of our Prime Minister, the entire Council of Ministers, but, you see, on the basis of what's been presented as an argument, it's only what's blindly believed or not. But I cannot trust myself, when I have here a law on the sales tax of the Federation of BiH, which was published in the Official Journal of the Federation 54/10.2002, which is now in force and, if the proposed VAT law were to be applied, it would, drastically, worsen the social rate of our citizens, especially those who are in a state of social need. So that's the big truth. It's obviously true and it doesn't need any argument. Tomorrow, when the law was applied, it would accumulate the life of the most endangered categories in BiH. Secondly, the finding, also that BiH does not have a social programme in this state. There is no incentive for domestic production, we have a strategy for the medium-term development of BiH and a strategy for combating poverty, we need to bring it in and now you see, you should adopt a law today, whose application would be delayed, here, let's say by half next year. I'm asking the questions. Can we think like this? So, in my opinion, there was much more argument today for the need to pass this law, with differentiated rates as my colleague Lagumdžija explained. Let's get out of here. We have 8 here months until law enforcement. If social programmes and the programme of domestic production are adopted, let us change the law that has not yet entered into force. So nothing's gonna happen. But, taught by experience so far, that this House, or this House, also makes good conclusions that it commits in a certain way to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, would not be able to accept, therefore, the bill contained in the Commission's report on finance in the budget and we are probably staying, I am now speaking on behalf of the SDP Club in the amendments that Lagumdžija has just explained here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15230	Thank you very much. No more reports. Thank you to those who have kept me in suspense whether there will be more reports for the debate. I'm closing the debate. Here's the deal with the College members we're proposing a half-hour break, if you are, to freshen up a bit. We're continuing 15 to 3. Thank you. I ask the ladies and gentlemen of counsel to take their seats. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. We move to a statement on amendments to the proposal for a tax law on additional value. So the order is next. The amendments submitted by Zlatko Lagumdžija, then amendments submitted by Mr Hazim Felić, and amendments submitted by Mrs Palavrić and the amendments submitted by Mr Bezir Belkić. No Niko has given up the amendment. That's the order, and in the end we're going to make a statement about the bill as a whole. Are you ready? Please, it means to make your statement on the amendment and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Vote now. This amendment does not have a general majority. Thank you very much. 55 We move to a statement on Amendment II of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Please vote now. This amendment does not have a general majority required either. Thank you very much. We move on to Amendment III of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Please vote now. So this amendment has the required majority. There is, this amendment has a general majority, no Federation entity. We're moving on to a match. Are you asking me to do it again? So we'll repeat the vote on Amendment III to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. So this amendment has passed. It has both a general and an entity majority. I therefore conclude that Amendment III of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija was accepted at the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. We are going to vote on Amendment IV. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. This amendment does not have the necessary general majority. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an amendment to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. Amendment V, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, does not have the general majority necessary. Thank you very much. We're moving on to Amendment VI of Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. Nor does this amendment, amendment VI of Mr Lagumdžija, have the necessary general majority. I thank the MPs. We move on to the last amendment submitted by Mr Lagumdžija, that's Amendment VII. Please make your statement on the amendment. I'm asking the House of Representatives to plead. Vote now, Amendment VII. This amendment has not received the required majority either. I find that we have completed our statement on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendments. Since the 7th House of Representatives has accepted Amendment III submitted by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. 56 We move to a statement on the amendments submitted by Mr Hazim Felić. I ask home to declare the amendment and Mr. Hazim Felić. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, So this amendment has a general majority, an entity majority of the Federation, doesn't need a majority from the RS. We're going for a match. So there's no consent in the College. I ask those who are against RS to vote, since there was no entity majority there. Vote now. So nine votes against the RS. He doesn't have two-thirds against it. Mr. Hazim Felić's amendment was accepted at the House of Representatives. So we will repeat the vote on the amendment and Mr. Hazim Felić in the second round, so those who are against the RS vote. Vote now. Please, we'll do it again. If there's a problem with the electronics, then we'll switch to, but check the cards again and follow when I give the sign that you vote. You're voting now, here. 10 votes against, there's a majority. I'm asking the MPs to watch how they vote because it obviously means when they're watching, it's registered. I therefore conclude that the amendment and Mr. Hazim Felić were not accepted in the House of Representatives. We move to a statement on the amendments submitted by Mrs Seada Palavrić. So that's three amendments. First amendment relating to Amendment XII of the Commission. Please vote on Amendment I submitted by Mrs Palavrić, which concerns Amendment XII of the Commission. Glamour. This amendment and Mrs. Seade Palavrić has no general majority, has not been accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment II to Mrs Palavrić, which refers to Amendment XIII of the Commission. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. This amendment does not have the necessary general majority and is not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment III to Mrs. Sead Palavrić, I apologize for Amendment III concerning Amendment IV to the Commission. 57 I ask the MPs to vote now. This amendment does not have the necessary general majority. I understand that no amendments have been accepted by Mrs. Seada Palavrić. We move to a statement on the amendments submitted by Mr Beriz Belkić. That's six amendments. Let's take it in a row. I ask home to declare the amendment and Mr. Beriz Belkić. Vote now. This amendment and Mr Beriz Belkić do not have the necessary general majority. Thank you very much. We move on to a statement on amendment II to Mr. Beriz Belkić. Vote now. I ask the members of the College that, even this amendment II, Mr Beriz Belkić did not receive the necessary majority in the House of Representatives and was not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment III, Mr Beriz Belkić. I would like to ask the House to make a statement by voting on Amendment III. Vote, Amendment III, Mr. Beriz Belkić has a general majority and he does not and I asked for your attention, and here you really are, we will repeat the vote, so Amendment III to Mr. Berzia Belkić. Vote now. So this amendment has both general and entityal majority and accepted. Amendment III Mr. Beriz Belkić was accepted by the House of Representatives. We move to a statement on amendment IV to Mr Bezir Belkić. I'm asking home to make a statement by voting. Vote now. This amendment does not have the required majority. He's not accepted. We move to a statement on amendment V to Mr. Beriz Belkić. I'm asking home to plead with the vote now. Vote now. Amendment V does not have the necessary general majority and is not accepted. We move on to the last amendment, Amendment VI of Mr Beriz Belkić. I ask the home to declare the amendment VI submitted by Mr. Beriz Belkić. 58 Vote now. Amendment VI does not have the necessary general majority. I thank the MPs. We have now come to an end with a vote on all the amendments that have been made, with the conclusion that amendments III and Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija and Amendment III to Mr Beriz Belkić have been accepted. Now we're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. Business intervention. Here you go, Mr. Križanović or Lagumdžija, who is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15231	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if this is business intervention but I would like to say that at the end of a successful and very high-quality debate, in which unfortunately we have failed to defend the amendments that we consider to be functional for this law, the SDP Representatives Club wants to inform you that we will leave the hall before the vote and we will be right back as soon as the vote is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15232	Okay. I would like to ask the MPs to come forward as a whole on the proposal for a law on value added tax with these amendments adopted by the Commission and home. Vote now. I'll dati the vote again. I ask the home to declare itself as a whole on the proposal for a tax law on additional value. Vote now. So the law is passed. There is also a general and entity majority in the House of Representatives along with these amendments that we adopted. I thank all MPs for both the debate and the plea. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the tenth point, that's A.10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Import of Arms and Military Equipment, in the first reading of the Proposal for this Law, to remind you, was delivered on 27 July, in a regular procedure. The relevant committee was the Joint Commission for, please continue to work, for defence and security policy. We got her report on October 7th. She unanimously supported the principles as well as the text of the bill. The Commission also found that no amendments were made to the draft law. I'm opening a debate in the reading process. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment in First Reading. And I'm asking home to make a statement about this law in the first reading. 59 Vote now. So, with 31 votes in favour and 2 votes abstentioned, without votes against, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import-Export of Weapons and Military Equipment in the First Reading. As there were no amendments, I suggest that the home be declared if we go to another reading? Vote now. With 35 votes for, one abstention, we decided to make a statement on this law and on the second reading. So, please, as there was no amendment to pleading on the amendment law proposal and amendments to the Law on the import-export of arms and military equipment and in the second reading. Vote now. With 35 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstention, we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment and in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're going to the 11th point, that's Ad.11. Proposal for a law establishing an Export Credit Agency of BiH IGA in first reading This law is under procedure 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered the constitutional basis on 02.08. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is relevant, it submitted to me on 19 October a report adopting 5 amendments. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading about this bill's proposal. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state the proposal for a law establishing the BiH IGA Export Credit Agency in the first reading. Vote now. So we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law establishing the BiH IGA Export Credit Attenence in the first reading. As there were no amendments to the plenary phase, I suggest that the home be declared if we will go to another reading. Vote now. So we unanimously agreed to move on to another reading. 60 I pray home that there has been no amendment to the proposal for a law establishing an Export Credit Agency of BiH IGA and in a second reading. Vote now. So, unanimously, with 37 votes for the adoption of the Bill on the establishment of the BiH IGA Export Credit Agency and in the second reading. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 12th point, that's Ad.12. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH in the first reading I will remind you, at the 43rd session of the bill was adopted in the first reading. At that time, the House of the Commission, set a new deadline of 30 days for the Commission, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers, to look at all aspects related to the proposal for this law and to make possible new amendments to the bill and to submit a new report to the House. The Commission for Human Rights of Immigration, Refugees and Asylum delivered a new report on 28.10, which was sent to you on the same day. In the plenary phase, Tihomir Gligorić and Marija Perkanović submitted amendments that they want to defend again in the plenary phase. I would like to point out once again that we are considering the bill in our first reading. I'm opening the debate. There's a word, Mr. Kebo, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15233	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I would like to introduce you to the position of the promoters on the amendments adopted by the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Asylum and Immigrants. We prepared during this period, which the chairman noted from a month ago a proposal for an amendment that we agreed and in the spirit of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and he adopted the proposal as his Mr Gligorić, and during the debate at the commission session, withdrew the proposal. We believe that these proposals reflect all those intensities set before us by the European Commission, as one of the 16 conditions of the Performance Study. So the final proposal still retains three ombudusmen and not one as we have suggested over two years and we believe that the amendments now accepted by Mr. Selim Bešlagić, to send them as his own, represent the basis for which the promoter would be willing to give his positive opinion. I would like to point out that the Council of Ministers' special interest in passing this proposal for a simple reason is because one of the 16 conditions of the Performance Study and, last night, during a visit to the European Commission Monitoring Team, this issue was raised as one of the very important. I don't think there's any need and we're tired enough to repeat the content of this law. I think it's quite enough what I said to draw attention or your attention to Mr. Bešlagić's amendments. Thank you very much. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15234	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. The debate is open in due course that I, Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15235	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, let me just give you one solution. Mr Gligorić's amendments were on the Commission, and I must say that by reading the decisions of the Venice Commission, or the recommendations of the Venice Commission, I accepted Mr Gligorić's amendments. However, the Commission has been told that no amendments have been submitted to the Venice Commission, which were made by the Commission in the proposed composition, and I, i.e. the amendments I have taken over from Mr Gligorić, have been treated equally on the Commission and have not been passed. I, if the Presidency and if Parliament considers this statement by Mr. Minister to be as one of the findings after yesterday's talks, am ready, since I have drawn out these amendments which means the Commission has not passed, I am ready to share them. So I'd ask you to decide that, and we have amendments, if you think you can. A five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15236	Look, I just need to clarify the situation, and we can work things out. And Mr Bešlagić rightly said, so the Commission had already considered these amendments and then all the circumstances were known. You have not restored them according to the Rules of Procedure, and therefore the procedural situation is clear. But here we heard what the minister said. I don't want to close the debate, but we need to be correct about both our own Rules of Procedure and the procedure we've been working on. Do you want any of the MPs? Mr. Novaković, then Kunić, then Mr. Jahić, the chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15237	Gentlemen Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues, this is to say indeed, this amendment is a matter of poslovnički if it is not possible for us to bring it into debate, given that the period for the Poslonik has passed. Secondly, I'd like to beg, so I'm not repeating the story I told at the last session, I don't think there's any reason, but I'd like to pray after a debate of a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDS Club. So after the debate, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15238	Please. Excuse me, before the plea. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15239	Before the plea, so after the debate break of 10 minutes, I'm looking on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15240	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15241	...the president will have a break before that. In fact, I'm re-expressing that point that I've expressed explicitly before. It is inconceivable to me that in this House, wherever I come from, a terrible struggle for human rights, the protection of human rights, and that an entity Ombudsman is being obtained by law. I claim here that this assembly is not authorized and legally cannot. So, we will now vote, if this is accepted, we will make an illegal decision, because we have a decision from the Republika Srpska Assembly that it does not wish to abolish its Ombudsman. I ask the question – is it possible for the Council of Europe to discuss the Ombudsman in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in entities? Is that possible? So what stage are we going into? Where are we? Is there so much cynicism to advocate for human rights and at the same time to end the rebels? And the ombusman needs to be closer to the citizen, because he's in their position. That's what I teach students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15242	Thank you very much. Mr. Jahić. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15243	Thank you, Chairman. I will not speak as chairman of the Commission, because here is the report as it is. He was adopted and the amendments were adopted as they were adopted and that is the report. I'd like to say a few of my observations. I think that in a significant part we've brought some quality solutions, first of all, as far as the transitional period is concerned, so for the state-run ombsmen that have been effectively abolished. So there's no transitional period since there's no need to be. We also explained some members of the Bill proposal by the Council of Ministers concerning the rationalisation of both staff and offices. I think it was one quality solution. And I also think it's a good thing that we've given one transitional period for entity ombsmen, which should, in fact, remain only the institution of the state's ombus. However, my opinion was also on the Commission, and even now that, as far as the state level is concerned, there must really be only one ombusman without, therefore, three ombsmen for several reasons. I don't think that, in my opinion, this problem, so the problem of human rights should be approached from some national basis and that these are universal human rights and that as soon as we doubt that it must be a representative of all three constituent peoples, therefore some principle is at stake. 63 I also respect the arguments that also have some basis that we are in one transitional phase and therefore those arguments which say that there are three ombs that have some basis. However, I stand firm at this point of view and I think this is still the best solution. When the Council of Europe's recommendations are added to that, it is as we received this morning, namely, you know that the establishment of this institution is one of the post-opportunity obligations in the Council of Europe, and we have also been given the opinion this morning that the Commission here is therefore the Council of Europe and the OSCE that it is evident that the current amendments and additions are not in line with the recommendations made in the opinion of the Venice Commission. So what we've adopted, so it's all about the question. And I don't think I'm ready to uphold the law if, therefore, in this form, so with three outposts at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15244	Thank you very much, Mr. Jahić. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15245	I would ask the College to declare whether there are elements, following the presentation of Mr. Minister, that I propose amendments at point 94. 3a). If they don't exist, no problem, if there is, I'm ready. So we're discussing some things, if you like the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15246	It means Article 94. Rules of Procedure, point 3(a). No, no, it's not that one. Therefore, the amendments will only be applied when they concern new aspects which the Commission could not take into account.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15247	No exposure is heard
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15248	Look, Mr. Bešlagić, we were all on the Commission, we know that the Commission had that in mind. I don't think there are any new aspects. If you want Dom to plead, I'm not running away from it. But I think it's the Rules of Procedure. Here, I really did, and this morning at the Expansive College, I said, and I'm staying at that point of view. It's so business. Because if it hadn't been for these amendments, if we hadn't had on the Commission, it could have been said now that you were proposing them, had they not been discussed on the Commission and that the Commission had not taken them into account. And she had them in mind. She said she had made a statement and now the House is being declared as a whole of the Commission's report, because other than the amendments that were subsequently submitted by Mrs Perkanović and Gligorić, there were no more business amendments. Anyone else want to discuss it? I'm sorry, Mrs. Palavrić, I haven't seen it before. Here you go. Rose, is that you? Mrs. Palavrić and Mrs. Sopta. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15249	So today, we are talking about this law for the reason it is a post-accession obligation for Bosnia and Herzegovina, after it has been adopted into the Council of Europe. The unification of the ombusman institutions is our duty. The Council of Ministers' proposal was a minimum of consensus leading to this path. It wasn't a unification yet, but it was on its way to achieve that unification. At the same time, I would like to remind myself that by unifying the institution, we are not by any chance moving the Ombudsman away from the citizens, because the Ombudsman institution is possible and will probably be closest to the citizen, as they are now subjective. Therefore, what we have today and without a letter from the Council of Europe, it is clear to us that it is not a realisation of the mission of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's post-accession commitment. In view of this and in view of the amendments adopted by the Commission and that they are an integral part of the law, the SDA Club cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15250	Mrs. Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15251	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact that it's not working is not what we have to mention here, which I thought we didn't even need here because we discussed on the Commission. Amendments have been sent to the Venice Commission for their opinion, which they too have shown themselves about these amendments that have come to the Commission. In the meantime, they were withdrawn. Mr Bešlagić submitted them again, and we spoke out on the Commission about them. I object to the ministry why not all the amendments that were relevant to me and at the moment when Parliament returned the report to the Commission to draw up a new report, which were amendments between me and Mr Gligorić which had been submitted to Parliament. The happiness of God that I asked the secretary, so I renewed those amendments even though I believe I shouldn't have renewed them, because it was said to draw up a new report on the same amendments. If these amendments had been sent to the Venice Commission, I suppose they would have had a positive opinion as well. Also, I have a right to assume it. What I realized was the fact that the purpose of unifying the ombusman institutions is uniformity of work and rationalization in these institutions. We achieve unity by working under one law, by rationalising and by what it is done through these amendments to the law. If we say that from the 9th Ombudsman we bring down to 3, of the 21st, we no longer have one on my record, and that the difference in the salary of the Ombudsman and possibly the deputy Ombudsman as provided for in and in the law on amendments to the law, the pay difference defined by law is 10% lower. So please, if it's worth 10% of the pay gap that we're going to the Ombudsman institution, whether we want to look the facts in the eye or not, and by creating one ombusman and two deputies, we're bringing into some situation 65 that, I don't think is the right situation on the ground and the problems that arise in front of that institution. I believe that we, that we haven't gone too far if we asked to be an institution of the Ombudsman in three people that I hold, especially, at least in this term yes and how important it is, and that everything else when it comes to personal interests here I think all that remains is to force some personal and individual interests. I mean, when I read what we got today, and I'm asking that too -- who asked for that opinion now after the Commission's work, who asked for and why and why and what arguments and papers did he send to these people to show themselves about it? I have the right to doubt because I say our amendments that have been in play have not been sent, some others who have been withdrawn have been sent. I don't think there have been any new conditions for us to debate and re-introduce the same amendments in the debate, and when I read here, when it says the adoption of amendments and additions is just the first important step towards establishing a single ombusman institution. However, this is a key step that should be encouraged and promoted by confidence in the institution. I just think we're on the right track with the formation of a single institution to start those three ombusmen. We'll see in perspective when, perhaps, one term passes, there's a need to take it down to one. I think we are on the right track and we have no reason to change this Commission report at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15252	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mr. Kebo. Here you are, Mr. Kebo, Minister Kebo, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15253	I must tell the distinguished representative of the Ruža that there is no reason to suspect that the Ministry in any way presented to the Venice Commission what was not on, in the procedure, which was not legal. You know that last time at Parliament's session, we delayed the debate by a month, because we received a draft reply from the Venice Commission to the draft law delivered by the Council of Ministers. So in that time it was supposed to be done that draft, and then the commission's opinion within such a quick month can't give its opinion and it takes months to reach out. So we talked here about the bill. I'm not saying that your amendments that you delivered are not, that they are contrary to the spirit of this, that wasn't even the point of my exposure. I didn't want to explain, but I just want to confirm that absolutely any kind of manipulation with the opinion of the Venice Commission has not reached the Ministry, nor would it make any sense to question the authority of this authority. That's all I wanted to confirm and tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15254	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Sopta, please. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15255	The fact is that on our amendments, our amendments weren't sent to the Venice Commission for obvious, and that some others did. It's a fact enough for me, I'm not saying if it was on, from the ministry from somewhere else, but the fact is that's because your deputy told us that on the Commission. Another thing, not the deputy, but Mr. Nagradić, if I remember the name correctly. He said that to the Commission. Secondly, the commission asked for the Council of Ministers to be shown by our amendments, because let's essentially have a hard time in the proposal for a law amending the laws tabled by the Council of Ministers. We never got it. We've received a statement, or a statement from Mr. Nagradić orally, and I mean that I think I can, I can afford to doubt that it's been manipulated with our amendments after all. Is it deliberate, not intentionally from the ministry or on some other side, not at all important to me now, but it is important that the Venice Commission did not show itself about all the amendments that were in the procedure, but only the ones that were withdrawn. And here, they said a positive opinion on it. I respect that, but it means that we are precisely about these amendments, that today it was about the repeated amendments of some others who were not on the evaluation, but they were on the review by the Venice Commission and they were given information from the Commission on these amendments. And then we made a statement about them because again Mr. Bešlagić introduced them into the procedure. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15256	Okay. Thank you very much. I think these circumstances have been clarified. Mr. Jahić asked for his word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15257	I'd just like one explanation. So on behalf of the Commission, we as the Commission, although the amendments were not adopted, we have all those amendments, so in that first part and which have been adopted and which have not been adopted we have referred to the procedure, we have referred to the procedure of the competent ministry. I really don't know what the fate of those amendments was. So that's one thing. The second thing, therefore, is certainly too late for me, so we have an indication of the amendments adopted, and they say it is evident that the current amendments and additions are these amendments that have been adopted are not in line with the recommendations set out in the Venice Commission's opinion. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15258	Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? If there isn't a break of 10 minutes at the request of the SDS Club. They asked for 10 minutes. Please leave at 4 a.m. with a session to proceed. We're done with 67 breaks. [[PAUZA]] We move to a statement on the amendments that have been submitted in the plenary phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15259	First reading, we're not done.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15260	Excuse me, thank you, Branka. We move on to a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I ask the House to declare on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Vote now. Okay. [[Common discussion]] Well, to my colleagues in the College, I'm going to attribute this kind of triafalism to their wit, although I think they've lost, because this was the law of package 16, past procedure and arguments and debate. But that's how it ends sometimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15262	The two of us voted against different motives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15263	I thank you and we move on to the next item of the agenda. That's Ad.13. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Internal Affairs You have received information and I have warned the minister. She was just here. I don't know if you can, Mr. Deputy Minister. Don't take it off, we took off the agenda once. We got it right here. Here you go, Mr. Belkić, before the man.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15264	To ask, therefore, in the structure of the general obligation, a chapter of the general obligation, there is an item of the other 577m obligation. What's that? Other obligations. Here's what you can do later when you get to the point of just explaining.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15265	To suppliers for goods and materials if you mean, I don't know what you mean? 68
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15266	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15267	In short, Bosnia and Herzegovina's construction of its macro-economic stability was also necessary to overcome internal debt. It is known that external debt has been managed, that it is successfully served, that it amounts to 4 billion KM and 30% of gross social product, respectively. However, when the internal debt was not correctly established, the IMF's proposal back two years worked on expert teams domestically and abroad, which established the criterion that the internal debt should be resolved with 10% of the gross social product. This criterion should be paid attention. 10% of gross social product meant a billion and 250 million KM was to settle all internal debt, including old foreign currency savings, war damages and other budget claims. Such a criterion, which was prescribed, practically immediately at the outset, meant that in a specific way an internal debt would be resolved in order to preserve macroeconomic economic stability. Translated to the time value of money that means that the internal debt is mostly written off. On three levels, laws were passed in Republika Srpska. Such a law was passed. The Federation is in a procedure and a state-level law on the settlement of internal debt has also been passed and the level of state is small and it mainly concerns obligations for lost court disputes against workers. To get back to the beginning, it is known in history that some other countries have resorted to preserving their macroeconomic economic stability, fiscal sustainability and Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been able to reconcile from the existing budgets a regular internal debt, so it means at the recommendation of the IMF the internal debt is under way to put it under control, which looks about like this. The established fixed debt was 4 billion 825 million, which is not the final figure. Namely, when determining war damage, it was short notices. In Republika Srpska, this was determined on the basis of an earlier law applicable in ex Yugoslavia, and in the Federation of BiH, very short deadlines, so that the war damage in the Federation was determined at around 900 million, and in Republika Srpska at a billion, at about a billion, which does not correspond to reality. As far as old foreign savings are concerned, the situation was somewhat more favourable and there were appropriate records. In the Federation of BiH, it amounted to a billion and 110 million in Republika Srpska 774 million. To point out immediately, the old foreign exchange savings of the Ljubljanska Banka and the old foreign exchange savings from the Investment Bank of Belgrade are not included here. As far as the old foreign savings are concerned, it has been resolved to pay off a certain portion over the next four years. In the Federation of BiH, the proposal is in the law to pay up to 1000 marks per user, in Republika Srpska the figure is slightly smaller, or 105 million to be paid within the next four years, and for the rest of the savings are given, bonds will be issued that will be charged after 30 years at an interest rate of 0.5%. War claims have considerable meaning for me to say a more unfavourable fate. The bonds are issued on the deadline of 50 years, and the payment starts 9 years before the maturity period of 10 wars. If this 69 really were to be recalculated then they would see that the good part of this inner debt is practically written off. The state had to actually resort to this to preserve its macroeconomic stability and it's up to you to assess how okay it is. We know that there are problems in the Federation at the House of Peoples with the adoption of this law, and at the level that I repeat the state has been adopted and adopted in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15268	Thank you very much. I've got records. There's been reports. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, Mrs. Mubera Ušanović, did you sign up? I've got it printed, or it's a mistake. You're not. All right, all right. So Mr. Mirsad Ćeman then Filip Andrić, yes, he did.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15269	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I won't be long, the information's long on our desk. We had the opportunity to read it, we had the opportunity to get familiar with laws that sort of solve the issue of internal debt, whether at the state level, some of us, we recently adopted at entity levels and in principle agreed that we should therefore resolve this issue, because internal debt in the state burdens both budgets and even creates one psychology that does not contribute in the country, if I feel anything that can be justified and rationally and competently planned. I want to point out here one thing that looks or is missing to me is not covered by the structure of this internal debt, so it can also be understood as a question of the proposing information. In fact, economic, or legal entities in the whole country of mutual relations have many unsettled obligations. Let us assume that these matters are handled by competent courts, or how this can be resolved between legal entities in transport. But there is one thing about states in a more direct way, in addition, and this was mutual claims made by certain countries to economic operators on the basis of taxes, etc. or legal entities as states based on different foundations, or fund claims, we also know which ones we have for economic operators. I would suggest that this issue is also extremely seriously examined and possibly examines the possibility more content than it has ever been in this regard of thinking compensation, i.e. beating-up of this debt, because it also burdens both economic operators and the state, and we are actually creating a system in which the state is also obliged and owes it to it, etc. Some entities, especially economic ones, etc. I can't function normally because of some other regulations, etc. etc. So let this really be understood as a question of thought, but at the same time a suggestion of a possible way of solving this issue. I know that there are reasons that any binding in this way of mutual commitment and any suggestion of beating can mean, or counterarguments to this kind of approach. But here's a moment ago to get back to the VAT law and the amendment of my colleague, Felić, who has been properly proposed. In fact, the state sanctions, to put it this way, 70 picks up a tight interest, if it's not done, payments made on a variety of grounds. Here in the law that we should have adopted is an oversight that if, in the opposite sense, if the state did not return what was due to be returned in time, at least not by this law, although it could have been carried out by some general laws, there was no obligation for the state to account for interest in case it did not react in time. So in these relations you should consider and eventually see what are the opportunities to beat each other's obligations to account for interest in the event that it does not react in a timely manner. In these relations, therefore, consideration should also be given to seeing what opportunities can be made to solve internal debt in a broader sense, and to introduce more order, i.e. a cleaner field in business both countries and others with the state, etc. etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15270	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the internal debt issue has begun to be resolved. But I was sick, or sick when I saw the way the debt of the state was trying to solve. And first, I'm going to say here when it comes to external debt, there are some principles and criteria for repaying that debt, and there's no problem with the 10% limit, and when it comes to internal debt, they give what they're going to say that the cash to pay off the foreign debt is as much as it takes, and there's no money to pay back the internal debt. Here there is no, I can agree, but then I'm going to enter into the structure of the internal debt a little bit, and I'm going to put this kind of classification in the same basket of the entire internal debt that's been acquired on a variety of grounds, and even by the way it stands here and other claims, which might say maybe someone neither guilty nor obliged has earned the right to claim some claim from the state because Bog created it and turned it maybe 18 years old. And that's what this government has leveled with debts to its people literally taken from its people, paid money, bloody in 99% of cases bloody well earned. I can't live with it, and I think this is one big, big injustice, a national robbery, and unfortunately I have information that these laws have been passed. I believe these laws are completely contrary to both the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international conventions. I ask the competent, or those who, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH, can raise the issue of the constitutionality of these laws to raise the issue because such a law is unforgivable to both this government and this state and these MPs. And given that such people have a terrible lot from the space I come from, I am convinced that unless the state hears about their problems they will have international courts. So I don't think it's too late for the state to correct itself, to correct the injustice, because if we continue this path of legalizing robbery and injustice, then I wonder what kind of state it is and where it will lead us. So I don't know what to do now according to this information? I wish I hadn't got it. It'd be less trouble. If we can throw it away, we can throw it away. If we can 71 suggest we fix it on the trail of this information then it's mys are suggestions. At the very least, that the old foreign savings are singled out from the total other internal debt, although I am not against it, or on the contrary, in order to resolve the remaining internal debt, but not in the same way as the old savings, but to solve the old foreign savings in a way that solves the external debt. It's the same situation, with external debt, we took a loan from the World Bank, or I don't know who, and we're giving it back neatly. We also took money from our citizen here, but we're not giving it back to him now, we're not. If there's no money left, then I wonder what about the property of the state that this country is legitimately entitled to and taken over from the former state as a legal follower. There is also a question and funds from a succession, funds from state-owned companies and other state-owned assets. I guess a part of the sale of that property can be solved, and I'm convinced by the sale of public companies that they are much more valuable than the total debt of this country and that's how if the government doesn't know how they're going to solve it. After all, it should not be forgotten that for 15 years these people have been waiting, at least 15 years for the state to pay back their money. And now we're gonna give them back another 30 years. And we'll give them some kind of paper, once we've shared with them certificates that we know were worth and poop, what was wrong with them. I call upon all of us once to get serious and call upon both the governments of entities and parliaments to correct this nonsense, with forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15272	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Hazim Felić, did you ask for it? You're not. Mrs. Palavrić, then Ivo Miro Jović, is you, Mr. Jović, so Mr. Križanović. We are receiving this report for knowledge, but we can and need a stenogram of this debate to deliver to the Council of Ministers and we will do so. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15273	I did not intend to speak on this subject, however, Mr. Andrić's discussion prompted me to do so. When we talk about state property and its protection, I call on you to remember the Law on Attorney General's Office when Mr. Ćeman and I were so heartily convinced that it was necessary for that attorney to protect the state's property. However, we were not allowed today under the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the state's attorney has no right or obligation to protect state property. So that's the kind of law we make because it's what we want. When it comes to the old foreign savings, I also want to remind you that the House of Human Rights assessed the constitutionality of the laws that regulated the old foreign exchange savings and found that the return of old foreign savings was not responsible for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for its entities. He then found that the old currency savings were taken from the citizens of '91. in the year, so right before the aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that 72 then, by the incursion of Serbia-Montenegro, it happened. So, Dom found that it is possible that entities might also need to solve that old foreign savings through privatisation, and what they do not decide to regulate as a public debt, unless they can be resolved by a succession and when they have received funds from a succession, I have also warned that these funds should be used for what is an old foreign savings, however, some other problems have been covered. So as much as we're trying to evaluate these things, I think the evaluation has already been done and what we have to endure is that we're really more willing to protect the state property to empower someone to protect it, and not that this is the only way we're talking about it, we need to protect state property, and in concrete laws, we don't even have support to protect the attorney's property. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15274	Thank you. The wrong quote by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. No, that's how I understood.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15275	...which I am really correcting may be a discussion so far on, I hope that all this story about the protection of state property that we have heard from the previous two debaters will be transferred to other levels of government when certain legal projects are concretely adopted and discussed. I only wanted Mr Filipović, he probably doesn't know, but today, the Federal Parliament passed the Internal Debt Act, and most of the HDZ MPs voted in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15276	What did you say, Mr. Gligorić? Wrong quote. Please do a little business. Some MPs have obligations and we ask that we respect that and that we finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15277	I'll take a minute. I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the guilty allegation is seen in the following, the Dayton says that there has been a tragic conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, there should be no qualifications here on the character of war in such a way as Mrs Palavrić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15278	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the same tone as we've heard from my predecessor so far, I want to continue, so at least talk about what 73 is about classic robbery. I don't like the country where she wants it and wants it to be a robbery. The one who wants to rob his citizen then, and that's what's happening right now. I was saying in this House that people were driven out of this country in the area where I live, their passports were divided. They didn't even know the words of the native practical language, they went into the white world, they left their families, mostly in those families there was a breakdown of systems, divorces, drugs, children unmanned, tragedy all over the place. They made some money, believing in this country that they'd come back sometime, and in their books, I remind you, it cost money to guarantee the state. I can bring you every book. That's what it says. Now that we want to think about having the continuity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we'd play a little bit. What answers us can be continuous, what doesn't suit us will be downstream. I assure you deeply, the question of old foreign exchange savings will entertain this country. I'm just looking at the day when people will start breaking into public institutions and taking them for themselves. What you take for yourself, what you've been taken from him, according to the estimates of what belongs to him. And why is that? We invite citizens not to buy Slovenian, we invite citizens to blame us for stealing 9% of the total debt. Slovenac are bad, so they stole our citizens' money from the Ljubljanska Banka. That is why we will not buy Ljubljana, or Slovenian goods. And here we are, patriots. And the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka towards the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a letter and a number of 9%. 4% have banks from the Republic of Serbia, the debt of Sarajevo's Bank of Commerce remains. Today, to shame, the Bank of Commerce and its buildings exist in all places where the people to whom it is owed. You know what else will now be the subject of a tender and such honor and must be built with their money, sold to someone else. And then, when I told Mr. Hejsu one occasion that this country was robbed, he said sorry, don't play like that, this country didn't have time to rob. You know, this country has been robbed. I agree, I fully agree that this country has been robbed. But when that robbed country was given a succession, you know what we did in Stoc, gave to the soldiers, gave to those who fought the war. So we're from the means of succession, instead of paying back that debt to the people who stole it, that means the means that we've been subject to a succession that, when we got it, we fed the army. And gave the army a fine, reconciled commitment, made this state a commitment, instead of bringing these people back fairly, because the funds allegedly said that Milošević had just made the break-in and stole, and those funds were returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina in part that could greatly reconcile the commitment of the people to this savings. And we didn't do it. We gave to those who waged war to please them and to retire. That's how the succession went away. We have no succession, this country has done, this home has not decided but is the one sitting in the other hallway. So mostly that money's gone, the citizens aren't settled. In the Federal Parliament today was adopted into the House of Peoples, you know, you'll see it won't come out for good. It won't come out well, because I know they'll start taking what's human, where they can calm down. Thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15280	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. I've still got Mr. Križanović on the list. All right, here you go, Mrs. Palavrić. Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15281	I have to correct the quote. People in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be told to the people who fought the war, I guess, the people who defended Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was no one here at war from the whim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15282	Mr. Filip Andrić. The same thing, the correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15283	And I, too, can be answered and asked by Mrs Palavrić who discussed it, she kept mentioning the state's attorney and state property and everything else. I agree that state property needs to be protected and rationally managed by it, but this is not the case of the Attorney General, this is the case for the Court of Human Rights. This is about the rights of people and individuals, not the Attorney General. And I agree that all of us, and some more often, are full of the state's mouth when it comes to achieving some of its political goals. Unfortunately, ma'am, or counterpart Hadžiahmetović, I received this information today that the Federal Parliament adopted, Do and that individuals from HDZ voted in favour of such a law. Unfortunately, such things happen in all parties and in all nations. I'm a witness that these individuals have been campaigning with the same people to protect their interests exclusively, not only of general and overall interest, but of extremely old foreign currency savings. And it will be they who will have to answer before their people for what they have done, and in the people they know how to label these people, and unfortunately their descendants. I don't want to be one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15284	Thank you. Mr. Križanović and that concluded the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15285	...I say I'll be real quick. I came, unfortunately a little later in the line, so what I was going to say is that a certain debate that goes in terms of possible internal debt solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a little late. Of course, I do not deny the need for this Parliament to say how it sees possible solutions to exit from the reconciliation of the internal debt, but here, as we have heard, the Federal Parliament today passed this law and I think that in this place today we are talking about a post-festum of it, I don't know how much it makes sense today. 75 So we are discussing the Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal debt. Nothing else, not a report, not anything, a proposal of any kind. So we have this set of facts that are probably true and of course we have some, some indications of some solutions that this Parliament is not authorized to do. Therefore, I suggest that we conclude this debate and take this information into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-11-04-0.u15286	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I have already said that this information from the Council of Ministers on Internal Affairs is being taken into account, but that we will deliver, in the light of the obvious importance of these, all of these issues, a stenogram with this debate to the competent institutions. Thank you very much. We still have 14 points left on the agenda, that's Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement, the Economic Governance Adjustment Credit, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, I am opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to ask the House to state our agreement on the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. Vote now. Thank you very much. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives unanimously agreed to ratify the Development Credit Agreement, the Credit for adapting economic governance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. And this concludes the 46th session of the House of Representatives in 16 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you.
