ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14355	...respected guests, I am opening the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. ...the work of the House. All of you, together with once again respected prisoners and respected guests, I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations. According to the service report, I conclude that the session is currently attended by 33 MPs, 22 from the Federation and 11 from the RS. We have, then, both the general and the entity majority and we can make a full decision. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda for today's session. As is the case with us, we held a session of the Collegiate House, where we agreed to supplement the proposed agenda. We have included two requests from the Council of Ministers for decision-making on the procedure for considering two delays in the proposal as referred to in Article 104. These are the 7th and 8th points: The Commission's report, established for the determination of the truth in connection with SFOR's action in Palam, the Proposal for a project to determine the drowning of donor funds in BiH, and the selection of one member of the High and Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also the Proposed Law on Compassionation, because yesterday the commission managed to complete that part of the job. So, I repeat once again, we have this joint agreement on an extended college, and, I am, however, opening a debate on the agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I thank and realize that the 42nd session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Records from the 39th and 40th sessions, 2nd. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, under procedure 104. 4. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the establishment of the Institute for Measurement, Metrology of BiH, 2 5. Report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing the BiH Standardisation Institute, 6. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Bill's proposal to determine how BiH's internal debt should be settled, according to procedure 104. Seven. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. 8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, also under procedure 104.ð 9. Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of BiH, in first reading, 10. Proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, first reading, 11. Proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH plants, first reading, 13. Proposal for a law on public procurement for BiH, first reading, 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees, First Reading, 15. Proposal for a law amending the Law on temporary suspension from enforcement of the application, based on executive decisions, on the burden of the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH, 16. Proposal for a law to improve foreign investment in BiH, 17. Proposal for a food law, first reading 18. Proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market, first reading, 19th Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, first reading, 20. Proposal for a general product safety law, first reading 21. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, First Reading, 22. Proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH, first reading, 23. Proposal for a Law on Public Television Service BiH, first reading, 24. Proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH, first reading, 25. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH, first reading, legislator Nikola Špirić, 26. Proposal for an amendment to the BiH Election Law, proposed by MP Muhamed Moranjkić, with the draft Constitutional and Legal Commission, 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, Proponent Momčilo Novaković, with the Commission's statement on Foreign Trade and Customs, 28. Proposed pardon law, first reading 29. Report by the Commission's truth-finding investigation regarding SFOR's action at the Palace, 30. Proposal for a project to determine the cost of donations, 31. The election of a member of BiH's high, judicial and prosecutorial council. 3 We move to the first point. Ad.1. The records from the 39th and 40th sessions of the House You received them on time. Does anyone want to discuss the minutes with these two sessions? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Can we accept the minutes, please make your vote and vote now? Together with 33 votes, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted the minutes of the 39th and 40th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much to the MPs. Ad.2. Representative questions and answers There were suggestions, given the size of the agenda and the content to leave for the next session. If you agree, we won't deny anyone. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14356	... one suggestion for all MPs, who have already written questions, we do not have to orally explain, is enough to add in writing, so answer us that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14357	Thank you very much, Mr. Živković. I think it's a useful suggestion. If there's more in writing. Mr. Kragulj, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Huskić, Mr. Zorić, Mr. Jahić. So, the questions asked at today's session, the notes consulted, delivered and received answers, and then the possibility of commenting at the next session, and the new questions in oral form, I suggest we leave for the next session. Consent? Thank you very much. We've saved one significant piece of time for this session. We're going to the third point. Ad.3. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers, on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I would like to inform you that the College, as a committee, has reached agreement, in accordance with Article 65 of our Rules of Procedure on the request of the Council of Ministers, that the proposal for this law should be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I hereby conclude that the procedure for examining this law under Article 104 has been adopted in the House of Representatives. I thank you. Moving to point 4. 4 Ad.4. A report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Institute for Metrology of BiH You have received a report, as you have seen the same text of the law establishing this Institute, from representatives of both homes in the joint commission. Any questions? There isn't. I hereby conclude that, through the vote, I am asking the MPs to make a statement on the joint committee's report. Vote now. Thank you very much. With 35 votes in favour, unanimously, without votes against and abstentions, we have accepted the Joint Commission's report and I find that this is the Law establishing the BiH Monitoring Institute for Metrology, adopted as a whole. Thank you very much. Moving to point 5. Ad.5. A report by the Joint Committee on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Standardisation Institute has also reached an agreement on identical text in the Joint Committee. Any questions about this report? There isn't. Thank you very much. I suggest that by voting, I declare myself to the House on this report. Please vote now. I find that with 33 votes, with no votes against and 2 abstentions, enough entity majority, the House of Representatives accepted a report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing the BiH standardisation institute, which passed the law establishing the BiH standardisation institute. We're going to the sixth point. Ad.6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of the internal debt of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The draft law requesting the Council of Ministers for this procedure was delivered to you on 13 this month. It is a request for a shortened procedure and I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers. There are no reports. I'm closing the raps. I ask the House to declare this request to the Council of Ministers. Vote now. I agree that with 33 votes for, without votes against and 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' loan to consider the proposal for a bill on the establishment and method of reconciliation of the internal debt of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. 5 We're going to the point 7. Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. You're the material you've been sent 21 this month. You got it today. We think it's justified that today we put it on the agenda, because it's a statement on the procedure, to leave time for a commission hearing. I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers regarding this law. Anybody want some? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I would like to ask the House to make a statement on the Council of Ministers' recommendation that the State Border Service Act be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. With 35 votes in favour, no votes against and no votes in favour. We unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a Law on the State Border Service in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thank you very much. We're going to the 8th point. Ad.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Control, control of the crossing of the state border, also by procedure of Article 104. Same case as the previous State Border Service Act. I'm opening the debate. He doesn't want anyone. I'm closing up. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers that the proposal for a law on the control of the crossing of the state border be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Vote now. I agree that with 34 votes in favour, unanimity, without votes for and abstentions, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers, that the proposal for a law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the 9th point. Ad.9. Consideration of the seed law and fruit material of BiH's agricultural plants in the first reading At the 40th session, we adopted this procedure. We received an opinion constitutionally-legal, it was relevant, it was also constitutionally-ustavno-pravni. She delivered the 19.7 report to us. The Commission adopted one amendment and unanimously adopted the draft law. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate on this law in my first reading. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14358	First of all, the chairman, I have an objection to the commission's report. Given that I have proposed an amendment, which has been accepted on the Commission, which has not been transmitted in the report as accepted by the Commission. The amendment was to Article 3(3) and it was to read. The BiH plant health protection administration, in the further text of the administration, in co-operation with the competent authorities of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, in the text of the entity and the Brcko District of BiH, in the text of the District, provides more detail on the types of agricultural plants. So that's exactly how the amendment was adopted, and the report says in Article 3(3) of the word, in the next text of the Brcko District of BiH, they change the words in the next text of the District, etc. A simple report needs to be fixed, the way the amendment reads, and how it was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14359	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, president, chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14360	Mr. Chairman, colleague Novaković, I confirm that there has been a speech in the manner in which you interpreted your amendment and that there has been a debate in this direction. But in truth, at one point, as the Brcko District of BiH was the point, at least in the stenogram, it was concluded that this intervention was carried out, how it was interpreted and how it was, in fact, stated in the report. So if there is, indeed, a problem with that, then we're going to check it again, but we haven't, personally, been convinced that this report said this amendment was accepted as modified. If, therefore, there is a dispute, then of course I have to apologize to my colleagues, but really this is with the Secretary of the Constitutional Commission that was done and we haven't had any objections about this before. So, if it's controversial, then let's go back to this one more time, but according to what I saw, the way we recorded it, this is, in fact, the Commission's decision. I'll let you know, maybe it's a mistake after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14361	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14362	I want to say to the chairman that there was no speech, but an amendment in writing has been submitted, and there is one with the secretary. It can be checked in the service whether or not there are amendments. We can't tell there was talk about it, so you're in a stenogram anyway. He's got seven letters. We voted and I would beg, indeed, that, if it is disputed, I, to be honest, checked before I came here, whether there is this amendment of mine in the service and there is one that I read.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14363	Here, let me try to help, too, since I was on that committee. It is true, it was Mr. Novaković's intention to introduce the full names of the entity into the text of the law, to then put in brackets the entities are further and I think he is right. The words of the RS, the Federation, should be inserted into the brackets in the text, and all of it is a story. Anybody else want to do this? Can we accept this explanation, relating to Mr Novaković's intervention, that the amendment is interpreted in the report as it was submitted and, with the conclusion that the Commission has unanimously accepted the report, i.e. Proposed law. I propose to the House that the vote declare the proposal for a seed law and fruit material of BiH's agricultural plants, in the first reading. Please shut down now. With 32 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentioned and enough entity majority, we adopted the proposal for a law on seed and fruit material of BiH's agricultural plants in the first reading. I suggest now that we determine whether we're going to plead today, only where it's not disputed. I suggest where these reports are undeniable, if there was a subsequent amendment, we don't have to do this where they're not. Can we get to the bottom of this? I would like to ask the House to state whether we will make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of BiH's Agricultural Plants in a second reading. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstentioned and enough entity majority, we accepted the proposal to declare this law in another reading. I ask the House to declare this law in a second reading. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 33 votes, we adopted the proposal for a law on seed and fruit material of BiH's agricultural plants and in a second reading. Once again, I thank all the MPs. 8 we're going to the 10th point. Ad.10. The proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, in the first reading and this law, that is, the procedure of Article 104, was adopted at the 40th session. The jurisdiction was constitutionally-ustavno-pravni. We got her opinion on 19.7. The Commission unanimously adopted the legislative proposal in the proposed text. There were no amendments to either the commission or the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing up. I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on the proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH in the first reading. Vote now. Together with 35 votes for, without votes against and hateful, we adopted the proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, in the first reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal that, in the second reading, we will declare ourselves today on this law. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we have accepted the proposal to declare this law in a second reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the draft law on the phytosanitary means of BiH and in the second reading. Vote now. Unanimity with 34 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we passed the law in another reading. Thank you very much. We're going to the 11th point. Ad.11. The proposed law on mineral fertilisers is the same situation as with the previous two. At the 40th session, a procedure was adopted. The jurisdiction was constitutionally-ustavno-pravni. The Commission adopted the proposal in the proposed text, no amendments were made either in the panel or in the plenary room. During the examination, the Commission noted the difference in the text of the proposal for a law in the official languages and concluded that it is necessary to ensure that the proposal for a law is identical in all three official languages, which is certainly to be done. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers in the first reading. Vote now. 9 So, unanimously 33 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers in the first reading. The same conclusion we made for these. I ask the MPs to plead, we will, and in the second reading to declare themselves on this law. Vote now. With 30 votes against, one against, no abstentions, enough entity majority we agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I ask the House to declare the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers and in a second reading. Vote now. Unanimously with 34 votes in favour, we agreed to make a statement in the second reading. We passed the law in another reading. I thank the MPs and we move on to the 12th point. Ad.12. The proposed law on the protection of new varieties of BiH is the same as with three previous laws. We set procedure at the 40th session. It was the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We got a 19.7 report. The Commission supported the draft law in the proposed text and found that there were no amendments, the amendment was not even in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I don't have any reports. I'm closing up. I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH plants in the first reading. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 35 votes, we adopted the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH in the first reading. We move to a statement in the second reading. I'm asking the House to plead. The conclusion is that we move on to a statement in the second reading. A statement about it. Shut it down. With 35 votes in favour, one against and one abstention, we have accepted the conclusion that this law should be declared in the second reading. I propose to the House that, I ask the representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH, in a second reading. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 36 votes in favour, we adopted the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH and in a second reading. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 13th point. 10 Ad.13. Proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH, first reading This law was sent to you 14.5. At the 38th session, we adopted the procedure. The Commission for Finance and Budgets was relevant. We got her report 5.7. The Commission adopted eight amendments, and there were no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to make a statement on BiH's proposal for a law on public procurement in the first reading. Vote now. With 37 votes in favour, we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH in the first reading. I'm putting the conclusion on the statement that we should make this clear in the second reading. Please vote now. With 35 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention, we agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I ask the House to declare the proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH in a second reading. Vote now. With 34 votes against, without abstentions and enough entity majority, I find that the Parliamentary House of BiH has adopted the proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH and in a second reading. We're going to the 14th point. Ad.14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in First Reading So, at the 38th session, we adopted a shortened procedure. The Commission for Finance and Budgets was relevant. We got her report on 14.7. There were no amendments at the commission stage. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing up. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the first reading. Vote now. Please repeat. In agreement with 35 votes in favour, we adopted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative fees in the first reading. I'm making a statement that we're going to make a statement about him in the second reading. 11 Please vote now. With 32 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention and a sufficient entity majority, we have agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I ask the House to make a statement on the bill in the second reading. Vote now. In agreement with 36 votes in favour, we adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes and in the second reading. Thank you very much to the students. We're going to the 15th point. Ad.15. Proposal for a law amending the Law on temporary suspension from enforcement of the claim, on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations, at the first reading of the 39th session we adopted procedure by 104. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee delivered Opinion 18.6. The Commission's report was delivered on 14.7. The Commission adopted one amendment and no amendments were made during the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate on the bill. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking the House to make a statement on the proposal for this law in the first reading. Vote now. With 34 votes in favour of, 1 against, without abstentions, and enough entity majority, we adopted the draft law amending the Law on Temporary Postponing of Execution, based on executive decisions on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH in the first reading. I would like to draw the conclusion that this law is being declared in a second reading. Vote now. With 34 votes against, two against, no abstentions and enough entity majority, we have agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I'm putting this law on the line and in the second reading. Please plead. Vote now. With 34 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention, we adopted the draft law amending the Law on temporary suspension from enforcement of the claim, based on executive decisions on the burden of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations in BiH and in the second reading. Thank you very much to the MPs. 12 We're going to the 16th point. Ad.16. The draft law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH We adopted the 104 procedure at the 38th session. You have received a report from 1 5.7. There were no amendments at the commission stage. The Commission considered certain inaccuracies of legal-technical nature, as indicated in the report, and there were no amendments in the plenary phase either. I'm opening a debate. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14365	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I, unfortunately, have not been in a position to attend a meeting of the resolution committee, where I would probably present, perhaps even submit amendments, but, therefore, in favour of the discussion... debate, that is, a statement in the second reading today under this law, will indicate several formulations in this law, which seem a little contradictory to me and it is disputed that it may cause a lot of consequences in the conflict of jurisdiction of the institutions at the state level. First, Article 5. The bill, which speaks of the Agency's competences, where the rest is said to be in charge of the Agency's field, which also refers to promotion of exports and privatisation. I'll remind you of the promotion of exports, even under the Foreign Chamber Act, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is in charge of the promotion of exports. Furthermore, privatisation agencies, which are in the jurisdiction of the entity, i.e. at the level of the entity, are in charge of the privatisation area. It seems to me that with this formulation, or by defining the Agency's competence, I repeat for the promotion of foreign investment, there could be problems in the conflict, so institutions' competences both at the state and at different levels in BiH. Furthermore, the formulation that the Investment Promotion Agency is also responsible for the training programme of domestic staff for the implementation of foreign investment projects. Let me express a reserve for the Agency that needs to promote investment to deal with the program of domestic personnel, I think we have a lot more institutions to deal with this kind of activity. Furthermore, it says here that the Agency should provide services to companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the Council of Ministers and other institutions, as well as to mediate between potential domestic and foreign investments. Therefore, services to companies, i.e. mediation, which is normally done by agencies so-called agencies in the world. mediators, which are not by any chance those firms, or agencies that are financing or in any other way related to expensive institutions. Furthermore, Article 15 of this Act, i.e. the proposal for a law, states that the Agency is financed from the budget, consisting of funds, i.e. from the state 13 budgets and independent sources, which indicates that the Agency, i.e. the FIP, would be partly referred as a state institution and to profit on a commercial basis. At the same time, the reasoning of this law, at the end of the law, states that the implementation of this law does not require financial resources beyond those established by the Budget, since the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments is already existing. I, the chairman, respecting the force of argument that I wanted to draw attention to, of course, do not dispute the need to adopt this law in the first reading and the need to adopt this law at all, suggest that the statement in the second reading, with the possibility of leaving any investment amendments for the next time, for a simple reason which, I think, can cause conflicts in jurisdiction, therefore, in the implementation of these laws, conflicts in the competencies of institutions, at different levels of government. I suppose this is just a matter of technical nature of arrangement and I will, in that sense, prepare some amendments for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14366	Thank you very much. Who wants to move on? Is there anyone on behalf of the promoter here? Is anyone there? Okay, I'm closing the argument. I don't have any more logs. So we didn't have an amendment. We are now pleading on the proposal of this law in the first reading. I ask the House to plead on the proposal of this law in the first reading. Vote now. ... accepted the draft law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH in the first reading. Here we had Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's request, without additional reports on the commission it is not possible to submit amendments. That's the situation, but here's the debate. If there's any need yet, well, I'm not insisting on another reading today. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14367	I fully understand all the remarks made by Mrs Hadžiahmetović. However, we cannot always, when we have not arrived in time, submit an amendment to extend the amendment phase. I'm sorry that we didn't notice or that we don't have a proposal here to tell us what the reasons are, to answer our remarks, which the teacher made. Our practice is that whenever we do not have an amendment to move on to another reading, because the Rules of Procedure do not give the possibility of additional investment in the amendment, unless I have applied the amendments in good time. So, today we do not resolve anything by postponing the second reading, possibly there are two options, that we go to the second reading and adopt the law, and that we eventually go to the amendments in the House of Peoples, so that the law is passed in different texts if there is justification for Ms. Hadžiahmetović's remarks. But, 14 I say, there is no reason not to approach another reading today, because there are no amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14368	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Bešlagić, then Mrs Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14369	... when an argumentary is given, which says it needs this law and can be improved, then there's no reason to force anything, because we're pleading on the first and second readings. I think that fellow Špirić said well, let Parliament declare that this is being extended, that this is changing, because this is not the law on which it depends whether tomorrow... Therefore, he will adopt next time, but correctly. If it goes to this statement, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14370	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14371	I can understand someone's will or desire that something that hasn't been seen in time try to be put on now. However, gentlemen, if we want to extend the commission phase, then we must have new arguments justifiable for which we would extend the commission phase. The only way is an extension, and not our will to say it doesn't matter now, we can, therefore, extend it and know how business, since there are no assumptions, at least by me, there are no assumptions for extending the amendment phase for the new commission's order to work, I don't think we can accept the delay. So, not in the sense of second reading, but in the new amendment phase, we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14372	Mr. Doko, Minister of Resorni, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14373	I thank the Honorable Presidents, honourable MPs, the Proposer of this Law is here, we are here, I will address this opportunity and several explanations concerning the remarks that Miss Hadžiahmetović made. Therefore, the competences of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, as it says in the name should only be limited to those activities. However, in all stages of the draft law, we have discussed... activities with the European Commission as well. It is a model that is present in all transition countries. These agencies carry out certain activities, where they are characterised for such activities and in this sense it is perfectly logical that the agency is engaged in promotional activities of some other areas, such as exports, such as, even in privatisation. The fact that we in BiH do not have any such professional, professional agency suggests that the need is quite realistic. It's not about any exclusive law either. Of course, all the other judges in these 15 processes can also do these promotional activities, and as far as deicing personnel is concerned, it is also left as an option, it will be done, of course, in that scope and in accordance with the possibilities. I don't think that, with regard to the objections to the law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, it should be limited in this draft law. What could contribute to a better process and privatisation, better process and privatisation, better process and attracting foreign investment and better results when it comes to exports, and certainly, promotion is one of the essential items and the fact that we currently do not have such promotional activities at an expensive level. I think it would be good for this law to be adopted in the second reading, given that the Agency is already carrying out this activity, as said in this proposal, and I must note that this is one of the 16 priorities defined by the European Commission and that it is legally resolving the status of the FIP, or the Agency for the Attraction of Foreign Investments. So I would pray, if there is enough will and willingness to try to adopt this law in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14374	I thank the Minister. You're looking for Mrs. Hadžiahmetović's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14375	I thank the chairman, I respect, indeed, the argument and do not dispute at all the need to pass a law on FIP, or agency that already exists and which, to remind you, is registered as a single person's society, which is financed from the Budget of the state of BiH. Unfortunately, I think that the decision and her engagement, or her work, were to be framed by law. But the arguments I made, but if I have to, I'll repeat them. The introduction of individual formulations of individual members is designed to lead to conflicts of jurisdiction between different institutions. Ijati just, no matter what, of course with a comment, I'm not a professional MP and I have the right to volunteer in this parliament. Therefore, I cannot, like the other Members of Parliament, meet all the obligations that I am at work here every day, simply, sometimes I can be left behind. And secondly, here, let me be corrected by my colleague Kunić, the chairman of the commission, who sat yesterday. The agenda subsequently included this law in the Commission's debate, I didn't even know that, in the call that this law would be proposed. I don't dispute the need to pass the law, but, for example, What I have read in my responsibilities, as proposed in this law, to the Agency's responsibilities in Article 5 of the Minister, I assume he knows exactly the content and, here I will warn you of, let's say, the formulation of Article 6. The law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which states exactly what the Chamber should be doing in paragraph 3. I just took this as an example. Take resolute entity laws, which regulate the privatisation agencies' area, so you'll see what kind of conflict will take place at the state level between the FIP and, say, entities' privatisation agencies. In order not to get into trouble, I guess we can find some modeality, me, and, if I supported the law in the first reading, because I really don't slow down the need for its adoption, so that by the next session, we can find some modality and these formulations, that is, to correct these mistakes. Thank you. I know, if that's what 16 can do. If you feel, despite this argument, that you should go to another reading, adopt the law in such a formulation, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14376	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. First, Mr. Džaferović answered the word, then Mrs. Leho, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14377	Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue with this efficiency, which we have shown in the course of the session so far. Things are very simple here. Mrs Hadžiahmetović, a distinguished colleague, stood up and made certain remarks, which were made outside the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure. She cited the reasons why it was beyond that deadline and suggested that the House consider the possibility of making up a new report, related to the circumstances she was talking about. I think that's the first thing we need to say here. I think we should get this over with. After that and depending on it, let's move on. If Miss Hadžiahmetović's proposal gets the majority, then we have concluded that the Commission is forming a new report. Unless we accept that proposal, we go with a statement to another reading and a done deal. I don't see any other way out of this situation. I'm asking you not to discuss it any further. I just called to take business interventions, to help us move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14378	I thank Mr. Džaferović for his help. The word is Mrs Leho, or Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14379	I didn't do yesterday's session, because Mrs. Leho is. I had to stay on the Constitutional Commission because it didn't have a quorum, but things are next. So, this whole package of laws that we've passed, these days they're nomotechnically harder to zero. They're very bad quality. To speak of the quality of these laws, it is, but these laws are necessary. We have, not to say, one press release that they are brought in and we have answered those demands and we have put it on the agenda to pass. However, the question now arises, indeed, when some cardinal mistakes are made, and it seems to me that there are cardinal errors, that Mrs Azra is right and that we can find that solution. We can postpone it until next time and make remarks that nomotechnically, however, it is fixed. I mean, there are other regulations that are really bad. They're copying, the resep school is on the scene with us, etc. We're gonna have to fix these laws all. Absolutely everything and very soon in due time. In due course, we have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Leho. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14381	First, we had this law at the 10th session of the Commission, which is July 13th is not a teacher. Yesterday, these four were from food to technical conditions. I think it's a good thing what Mrs. Azra said was too much in her law. I think this is a newspaper and this is necessary. We are a country in transition, and it is necessary that this agency and here it is written to participate, it does not privatise or what is written here in this article, to which it makes comments. Normally, it provides services to businesses in BiH, related to this, intermediation between potential domestics, means what is new with these laws, which is a request and the European Commission at the demands of 16 priorities. It's normal for this to be here in these laws. It's not in the conflict of interest, in my opinion, and I don't see any reason why we're not going to another reading right now, because we need this law, just like this. And as for the budget, which is mentioned in Article 15 of the Treaty, it is normal, because it is a state institution, and as independent sources are put in place, it is possible that this agency, given the work it does, has certain donations and they go, will go through the vault.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14383	I have a business intervention. In fact, by looking at Article 95 in position 1, if we have accepted the Commission's report, and we are in the first reading, then, by my understanding of Article 95, there is no room for the commission to make up a second report. To call on that again, given what Minister Doko said, that this is one of the laws of 16 conditions, to define ourselves for another reading, to pass the law. After all, it is not difficult to react to the House of Peoples or to go with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14384	I'm closing the debate. Respecting all the circumstances, and I don't think we're going to violate the Rules of Procedure if we give a statement of the possibility of making up a new report. It's on the House to judge now these reasons, which have been presented here. I think that's correct, and that's what we need to be clear about. So, for me, there have been new circumstances here that the House needs to judge. We accepted it in the first part. The procedure here is such that we cannot resolve the intervention if there are reasons for them. I'm not saying that there are, let the people according to the arguments that have been made here decide. I think that's correct. We don't all have to accept it. I would like to make a statement of the proposal to allow for a new commission phase, related to the circumstances presented here by Dr. Hadžiahmetović. 18 I ask the House to plead. Who's up for that proposal? Vote now. So for 20, 13 against, no abstentions. 15 from the Federation, 5 from RS. So, the new commission phase and the possibility of a new report, and then we can end it in both readings at the next session. Thank you very much. I don't think we lost anything. Let's do the job, and at the next session in both readings, agree with the promoter and be a quality law. Thank you very much. We're going to the 17th point. Ad.17. The proposal for a food law in first reading At the 41st session we accepted the procedure for this and for the next three legislative proposals. We set out to speed up the work of the relevant commission, so that we could consider these laws before the annual holidays. That's why you only got the report today. Please, for your understanding, flexibility when it comes to the investment deadline, any amendments in the plenary phase. I think that's correct. We have received a report from the competent commission, which is the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Commission has found that there has been no amendments, and has adopted the draft law in the proposed text, by noting that Article 59 of the 1st mistake left out paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 and this has been corrected by the verifications we received today. At the plenary stage, there were no amendments, but here we said if there was any need. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Is there anyone who wants to discuss it? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare itself in the first reading of the proposal for a food law. Vote now. With 36 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted the proposal for a food law in the first reading. Since it has been unanimous and there has been no amendment, I would like to draw the conclusion that this law is being declared in a second reading. I'm asking the MPs to make a statement about it. Vote now. With 32 votes for and 1 against, 1 abstention and enough entity majority, we accepted that the law be maintained in a second reading. I ask the House to clarify this law in a second reading. Vote now. With 33 votes for, without votes against and 1 abstention, we accepted the proposal for a food law and in a second reading. Thank you very much. Transmit 18. 19 Ad.18. Proposal for a law on surveillance of the BiH market The same introduction, the same reasoning, as for the previous law. You've received a report from the commission. The Commission found that there were no amendments to this law either, and adopted it in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you very much. Please state the proposal for a bill of supervision over the BiH market in the first reading. Vote now. So we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market in the first reading. Since there were no amendments, there's no debate. I'm putting the conclusion on the statement that we should make this clear in the second reading. Please vote now. Shall we do another reading? With 34 votes against, one against, one abstention, we agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market in a second reading. Vote now. I agree that with 33 votes in favour, without votes against and 1 abstention, we have adopted the proposal for a law on market surveillance for BiH and in a second reading. Thank you very much. Transmit 19th point. Ad.19. Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, first reading the same reasoning as for the first two laws. In this law, the Commission adopted one amendment, submitted by Izet Hadžić. I'm opening a debate. Proposal for a law on technical requirements for the product and conformity assessment. I'm opening a debate on this law. Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14385	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when considering this law, there was one error in Article 6(3), in fact, it was an indetermination, which I asked to explain to us what it was, whether it was a technical password for smoking part of the text or something else. Since I did not get a concrete explanation of what this was about, there was a question of an explanation assuming, I could not declare myself on this amendment, because before finding out what it was about by the promoter, we cannot declare 20 outings of part of the text, or article. And, I'm asking, given that the motionary is present to explain to us what this is all about. Because I have the knowledge that the radio-technage of smoking part of the text, which has completely changed essentially, is not exactly the point of having that, that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14386	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Doko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14387	I also thank you for the observation that is justified and it really is a technical mistake. When a part of the text and that sentence were delivered, it actually doesn't make sense, because it's not finished. There should be a continuation of the text, so behind BiH will participate or participate in the preparation of the implementation of technical regulations, and then that would be the point that the proposer intended it to be. It's a technical mistake, and I apologize for such a mistake. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14388	Mrs. Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14389	... said that he did not know how this was found here, because under three of what is written is already covered in paragraph 2 because the above in point 2 is said that the Committee on Technical Regulations consists of the following permanent members, so the entity ministries of both entities is also listed, the Brcko District. So, this is explained yesterday that it already consists of two, and that's why we decided yesterday on this committee on this amendment, based on the pedestal report. If the promoter now has a supplemental text, then it's now some newspaper for us. We went to the three with the amendment to delete, because we were told that what was written in 3 was already contained in Section 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14390	In your opinion, does this report by the commission address this issue that Mrs Perkanović has raised?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14391	I think it's working out, and that's how we agreed on the Commission most of the time. Eh, now, if he's not thought to solve I don't know, here's the proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14392	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić. Did you, Mrs. Perkanović, ask for another word? Okay. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14393	The Doko explained what it was about. Therefore, one part of the text in Article 6(3) has been dropped and, for these reasons, an amendment has been proposed, which has been accepted. Now, Mr Hadžić's proposal should withdraw the amendment and install the original original text that Minister Doko suggested and we've settled the matter, so it's not about entering, so it's about the dropped text, which is important for the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14394	Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14395	This is, therefore, just one more piece of evidence, how much it takes for the Council of Ministers to send competent people to the committee's meetings for debates. Well, there's nothing to argue about here by me. So it's an acceptable variant adopted by the commission. It wasn't clear to people yesterday. They read it in the law, and they saw that attitude three doesn't make sense and that man says what this is. I don't know, or it's contained in point 2. We're erasing and we've been passed the law today with a report from a commission that no longer stands 3. We've got all the other views, attitude three is gone and we're voting on it. For me, too, this situation is not disputed, if someone insists on it, those words that are written in attitude 3, which Minister Doko added, are also not at all controversial and now it is only a matter of will to get out of this situation. I suggest the next situation. We have two options. And here, seeing as some are objecting, to this first possibility of eradicating this attitude 3. So let's move immediately to this second possibility. That you, then, as Dom here today and the commission can end it in five minutes now. If we were to be able to say, in fact, that we would like a new report from the commission, to get up the President of the Commission, and here are the members of the Commission, they say, this is a new report, as the Doko proposed, and I apologize, Minister Doko, completed on this point 3 and we are voting on it and we have a law and a done deal. In two minutes, we can complete the Commission's report and we won't delay and we have the law and we have the law in the second reading and we move on. I propose that the President of the Commission come out here for a pay phone and say so. The Commission is that we first ask them for a new report and vote and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14396	I'm proposing a break for 15 minutes. We've been over a lot of commissions, have him sit down and figure out what to do. Fifteen to four, we move on. Thank you very much. We're on the 19th wheel. Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. I would like to call on the President of the Commission, Mr Kunić, to give us the position of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14397	Position's next. We haven't received the report yet, it's not finished. So we accepted what was proposed in the congregation, the session. So he withdrew Mr. Izet his 22 amendments. The text was returned to the original and in that sense a report was made, which, here is written.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14398	What Minister Doko said was added.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14399	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14400	Eh, that's important, that's what we vote on then.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14401	I suggest we move on to the 20th point. Once we get the report, we'll be in touch. Are we consummated? Okay. Can we accept the report Mr. Kunić filed? That would mean we're pleading on this law in our first reading. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about it. Vote now. With 32 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. We unanimously accepted the committee's report and laid down the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and assessment of compliance in the first reading. I suggest we make a statement, I ask the House to make a statement on the conclusion that we are pleading in another reading. Vote now. So, with 32 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we agreed to make a statement in the second reading. I ask the representatives to make known the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and assessment of compliance in other readings. Vote now. With 33 votes for, no one against, 1 abstention, we adopted the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and assessment of compliance in the second reading. I thank the MPs and we move on to the 20th. Ad.20. The proposal for a general product safety law in the first reading you saw from the commission's report that on this proposal too, the commission adopted an amendment submitted by Mr Izet Hadžić. Is the same situation here as, but unrelated to this amendment, I am obliged to open the debate. Are there 23 reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Is there a report that we expect of this law? Okay. I thank the President of the Commission, Mr Kunic. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a general product safety law in the first reading. I'm asking Dom to vote now. With 31 votes for, without votes against and abstention, we unanimously accepted the proposal for a general product safety bill in the first reading. I would like to draw the conclusion that this law is being declared in a second reading. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about it. Vote now. With 32 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention, we agreed to declare this law in a second reading. I put it on the statement of the proposal for a general product safety law in the second reading. Please vote now. For 36, no one against 1 abstention. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a general product safety law in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're going to 21st. Ad.21. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH in its first reading At the 40th session, we adopted the procedure under Article 104. We've received a report from the relevant commission. At the proposed law in the commission phase, there was one amendment by Mr Jovanović, who withdrew in the debate, and there were no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare its proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of BiH in the first reading. Vote now. So, we unanimously adopted with 36 votes for, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I would like to draw the conclusion that this law is being declared today in a second reading. I ask the House to declare that by voting. Vote now. With 33 votes for and 1 against, 2 abstentions, we agreed to plead in another reading. I am putting on the statement of the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the second reading. 24 Vote now. With 30 votes for, without votes against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the MPs have adopted the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a second reading. I thank all the MPs. We're going to agenda 22. I ask that Minister Dokić, who is on one round table, come here and ask to be called when he begins. Ad.22. Proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I will remind you that the proposal for this law has been delivered to us by 25.5. That he's already been forwarded to you for 26.5. At the 38th session, we accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for a shortened procedure. It is the Commission for Transport and Communications, which delivered a report to us on 23 this month. That report was sent to you by fax. You saw from the report that the Commission adopted 35 amendments. At the plenary stage, we received amendments from Nenad Mišić, selo Bešlagić and Mrs. Seada Palavrić. The amendments of Nenad Mišić and Mr selo Bešlagić contest the amendment of the relevant commission to Article 23. The bill was proposed, and Mrs Palavrić submitted amendments, which he again wanted to defend at the plenary stage. It also tabled an amendment, which says it contests Filip Andrić's amendment to Article 9 adopted by the relevant commission. I, after these opening remarks, am opening a debate on this law. The word was requested by Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14402	On behalf of the HDZ-Democracy Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14403	Thank you very much. I'm setting a 30-minute recess at the request of the HDZ Representatives Club. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Do you want Mr. Zorić? Okay, thank you very much. I also welcome Mr. Dokić's resolute minister. Whether before the debate opens, Minister Dokić wants to address lawmakers. If you want, maybe it wouldn't be bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14404	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 25 Out of question whether or not I want to speak to you. I understand that I need to speak very briefly. Is that understood? Of course, if there are any questions, I'll be ready to answer. So, I'm really going to stay in the shortest lines. Somewhere in November of the month, in the middle of November, a commission was formed to draft these laws, which are before you. There are two laws before you today. The Law on the Public Television System and the Law on the Public Television Service of BiH. For some reason, it has been insisted that the state minister of communication and transport lead the commission and that the commission included two other resolution ministers from the entity, three directors, I had the right to further form a commission other than these two ministers. The other members of the commission were three directors of public radio-television services, three chairmans of the boards of public radio-television services, three advisers of ministers, state and entity on these issues, were two OHR representatives, and mostly one representative of the Communications Agency. The Commission did its job at the end of January, in early February, and I would say agree on all the issues presented to the commission. I'd say we came from four documents, which we had before us. Of course, there is always a basic document in any legal project of the Constitution of the State. The second document is a legislative regulation, which must be respected by the new law, the third document is European standards and credentials in this area that we are obliged to adhere to, because this is one of the laws, among other things, recommended by further European integrations and the fourth document is one agreement signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and two prime ministers of entity governments, which referred to the issue. I've always pointed out that this was for the commission and it was the order of validity of the documents and, if I have to say, there was an effort to call first on the last one. I want to say now that I've always thought and thought today that the last one had to respect all these previous three documents and that I don't owe it now, I think we've found a compromise and a solution that reconciles all these documents. It's up to you to assess how much we've done. The fact is that we have respected all European standards and recommendations, it also says that at the request of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, a roundtable was held by the Council of Europe and the European Commission, where there were three experts from this area from the Council of Europe and the law received a high score in respect of respecting European standards and recommendations. On the round table itself there were discussions on Bosnian Herzegovina's delicacies, which to understand each law must and respect. Of these documents, I would say that the basic law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH, according to these documents, is now not to stress individually, a requirement has been laid down for the system to be made up of four legal entities, three public broadcasters and a fourth legal entity to be conducted for a time, which we then called a corporation and founded by three public broadcasters. The services are independent. According to Article 4, which bears the name of the public service independence, I must say, that this member is complete, I would say from letters to letters copied from one document 9/10 does not matter to the Committee of European Ministers, which clearly defines what the independence of public services is. Since this is a very important question, you're going to let me read this definition of independence, though. 26 (a) Determination of the programme scheme, (b) Production of the programme, editing and presentation of news of the information programme, loading and availability of property, employment and rights and obligations of employees, editing of the activities of the internal organisation, preparations for implementation of the budget, negotiations, preparation and signing of legal acts relating to the operation of the service, representation of services in legal proceedings, assets, rental of sales and use of goods and services. Article 6 defines the relationship between public services and here it is, services, and also public service corporations, where public authorities and public corporation competences are given. Since you have a document ahead of you, I would not like to read it, but I would stress that the establishment of a corporation allows for significant efficiency in the use of resources by all three public radio-television services, first and foremost, is that this legal entity will fully manage the transmission infrastructure of all three services, noting, managing, that does not mean having it in its possession. The right of ownership is an undisputed right of each service, but, therefore, three public services provide a transmission system to manage this corporation, and certainly it will first cheape the maintenance system on the whole, at the level of three services, cheape further upbuilding of the transmission infrastructure of all three public services, allowing the joint use of infrastructure facilities on the ground and will also enable the provision of services to commercial televisions, commercial services, such as the military, police, electricity and other services. The corporation still has a lot of authority. This is not the only authority and is mainly based on an agreement between three public services. It's already been delegated somewhere, not only as agreed, but according to the decision of the system board. As part of the service law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by saying what's here. What is new is a clearly defined way of picking up a radio-television fee for the possession of a radio-television apparatus and as you know we have already introduced a new system, under which in the whole BiH area, this fee is charged through a telecom operator, so for the first time since '92. In the years so far we have this system uniquely established throughout BiH and it has already been established, I can tell you, it already shows relatively good results, better results than we had in the previous period. This time in this law, which was not in the previous laws, a system has been introduced and punishments for those who do not want to, because this is not, once again, a radio-TV subscription. This is a tax on the possession of a radio-television apparatus. So this is a kind of tax, and every citizen is obliged to pay taxes. So far, I must also point out, there has been a billing system such that the telecomporators, by way of an advanced percentage, will automatically allocate funds to the entity radio and to this auctioned channel, which has been called PBS, will now go through one account according to this law, with the Council of Ministers suggesting and suggested in this original document that the discharge of that account is also made automatically within 24 hours, according to the predetermined percentage. I stress this because I have been informed that a different proposal has been adopted by the Communications Commission. I think that proposal is harmful to all three radio-television services, I must stress that. It is here in the accepted amendments, and if it may not be convenient for me to comment on them immediately, it is said that the discharge is made every seven days. It's good for 27 banks, and it's not good for services, and this law was intended, above all, to protect and provide a stable way of financing services. Here, so much to start with. I'll be here, and I'll be ready to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14405	I thank Minister Dokić. The debate is open. Who wants to go first? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14406	...to say, here and present, to ask only one question. Mr. Minister, were you in progress and, or were you following what kind of intervention these laws have experienced through the commission phase, and let's say today we have an amendment to these laws. I'd like to hear your comment, if, of course, possible as the legislator. Whether these amendments and those interventions violate the basic concept and your opinion, it would simply be good for us to have an earlier question, of course, if it doesn't bother the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14407	Mr. Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14408	...the amendments, and then the comments on the amendments, but it's all one thing. There's been a lot of amendments to these laws. More than 90% of the amendments were accepted by the Communication Commission. So more than 90%. What's accepted doesn't violate the concept of the law. I would say in some detail, especially the legal nature, even improving the text of the law, and I have to say that in front of the Council of Ministers there was a lot of harmonisation, acceptance of compromises, I would even say that even one day we've been extended to some other members, all day he went from point to point and analyzed, and every time you make compromises, there are some things that are not precisely defined. I've already said my opinion on one question, but it's a matter of the commission that voted so. She had the right to vote like that. I'm asking one more question. These laws should protect public services, not banks. Economists know exactly what it means to have money standing at the bank for seven days. Why don't you stand on the account of every service. In any case, these amendments, which have been accepted, do not violate the basic concept of the law, even supplement it in some legal elements. There's still an amendment. I'm talking about those amendments that were adopted by the communications commission. Some other amendments that have even been rejected there, and now they appear again here, I'm afraid that they would violate the basic concept of the law and threaten, I would even say some of the elements that have been introduced into this law by definition, which are primarily European standards. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14409	I thank Minister Dokić. Replica. I had a report that I didn't know if Mr. Andrić, Mr. Križanović, was you in a hurry. Then the connection malfunction here was recorded. Then before the debate, Mr. Zorić can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14410	Well, here, Mr. Dokić mentioned here twice that compromises were made. Since I'm not a member of the commission, I'd like to tell us a little bit about these compromises, because this law is very important for BiH, so let's tell us a little bit, maybe we'll make it easier to decide whether or not we'll support this law. For example, for now, the HDZ-Demokršćanin Club does not support this or the next law. But maybe when he tells us about compromises, to support them, because they didn't compromise the secret.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14411	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. The debate, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14412	I don't know if Mr. ministar would rather say about these compromises, but I was on the committee on the case when the amendments were discussed so little, so I had the opportunity to hear the OHR's remarks there, the European Commission, where the minister says we agreed here, we reached a compromise, we're not there. That's where I didn't get the OHR proposal, that's where I am. Well, on the occasion, according to his report, members of the commission were appointed and voted, so which amendment would pass and which would not. I had the opportunity, also there to hear that there was a compromise between the prime ministers, here is what the minister confirmed, allegedly three prime ministers have reached some kind of compromise on the essence of these two laws. I, unfortunately, must note that this is about defining the rights of the constituent peoples in BiH, and I must also conclude that it is noticeable that there has been no prime minister from any nation. Well, I guess it wasn't a problem to compromise the two at the expense of the third. So much for compromises. I hope Mr. Secretary has something to supplement, but here I want to get attached to his exposure. I apologize for the little delay, and I hope I didn't miss much when the minister started exhibiting, so he said. The task force that had the task to prepare this task then managed, and then it left the Constitution. I don't know where they ran the Constitution, but the constitution states that the three constituent nations in BiH are completely equal. I mean, the Constitution guarantees equality to all the peoples of BiH. However, this law does not indicate that equality in any article. Unlike two peoples, who have the opportunity to broadcast their program in their own language, through two entity tv services, the third of which is equal by the constitution, unfortunately there is no possibility. European standards also touch this issue, saying that the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right of every nation and individual, i.e. the right to broadcast in their own language. Even at some gatherings and debates in the Eurpian Parliament, the rights of the people to their 29 media, namely the importance of the media, in maintaining and preserving the identities of individual peoples of their cultural intermediation and diversity and everything else. Well, then, I don't understand how he appreciates that this convention has been respected, if a nation has already been left without public media rights in its own language. He mentioned some BH specificities. He didn't pick them up, so I don't know what it was about. I know in the truth that there is a lot of BH specificity, unless it is it, which is more and more noticeable lately, that it is more expensive in which the International Convention on Human Firsts and the Constitution of that State and the laws that have been passed, if these are not specificities, I don't know what other specificities are, by which we should adopt such a law. And yet, calling on the legal regulations that exist, I don't know what she's bound by that we have to make the laws that we already have. If all the good ones we're good at, I don't know what new ones would bring. I know that the reasons for the law also mention the requests of the Council of Evorpa, the Council for the Implementation of Peace, the High Representative, are just nowhere to mention the request of the one for whom this law is passed, and that is to say those in only one article where they must be introduced to pay taxes on the possession of televisions or radio receivers in the house. So, I don't know if anyone in the task force has at one point thought, or wondered what these people's demands are, of which we expect tomorrow to pay us this and this kind of tv service. I hope that we will have a later chance to discuss the amendments and that colleagues will have understanding and support. I've made one amendment very important when it comes to this, I think it would very much correct this injustice which is essentially legalized by this law to a constituent people. I would no longer like to do so in this first reading, while the debate is in principle, except to say that the principle of equality of constitutional peoples is not respected in this law and that is why, in truth, I or the HDZ Club cannot support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14413	I thank Mr. Andrić. I only have Mr. Ivo Miro Jović reported here now. Anybody else want some? Mr. Živković, then go ahead, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14414	I thank Mr. President, and, today as it was a month or two ago, I must regrettably conclude that there is something in this country that prevents this country from becoming a European country, on these grounds, and on such shameful proposals of the law, which come from people who call themselves ministers. 30 Two months ago in this room, I gave 40 amendments to the higher education law. I knew what the fate of that law would be. It's sad that those who made the pact against the Hrvat knew it would happen, and it really happened. And that gives me hope, otherwise, he wouldn't even be up today. There would be no reason for me to get up today to say, if the Constitutional Court hadn't made a decision, which is the only possible decision that gives light at the end of the tunnel, that we would still be a European country, despite those who wouldn't want it. When I say it's a sad fact and I don't know Minister Dokić, instead of talking about him being a minister in one country where 2%, we got that answer in April, Mr. Novaković asked, we have this document from that television and radio, which, here we have to reward, because there's an amendment that says everyone there stays, everyone who worked there should stay, and I'm willing to say, always with a sharp tongue and how I am in my deep court and the people I'm moving among, it's a fascisoid service, my dear. We Hrvat in BiH are experiencing this service, which has so far worked to ensure that racism and fascism functioned. Two percent of the Hrvat people worked in that service. No one since 2001 has ever been hurt or spoken or disturbed. I will be the head of the people for not paying the fee and I want to be the gang in BiH, with legal means of disobedience to this country, because fundamental human rights have been trampled upon me. In this country I want to speak my language, my tradition, my culture in public media. First they stole from me one and the other, and now three times, they're stealing from me the technical means that belong to the Croatian people. Today I heard even more embarrassing, says it is very expensive for Hrvat to have television. Well, my people, what's cheap? In the name of whom is it expensive? Let's remember everything that's going on around us, what the money's going on in. Little Montenegro has three channels next to us, and I assure you there are fewer populations of Crnogorac than Hrvat in BiH. It also has a satellite program. We are looking for nothing else and nothing less than the other two people, who have agreed to divide BiH like this. And, unfortunately, one part of the international community strongly supports it. For what? Why? This is Mr. Minister talking about Europe. What a crucial moment to be the criteria of Europe's principle here. In this law, there is no word here that three constituent nations live here. Not a word. No consensus. There's no one in charge who can be of the same people. Not a single word. This looks like Cuba, not BiH. A dictated law in which not a single word literally does not allow public service to shape the media's consciousness. Where will Croatian children grow up in BiH? Is that giving us a clue? Where will I send my child to learn the language? Defend at school, defend now in the media. Oh, God's earth with three peoples. What three languages and three nations do they have here? What's it look at, what's it look like? Is it a language croatisation, which recently says a club of intellectuals in Sarajevo is being done in Sarajevo curatization of language imagine language. What two words or three are heard in the journal of Croatian and that is the curatization of language. There is no person on that television who currently works, who knows Croatian. We don't use any. It's not just a word of Croatian. It's a language structure. There's no such person, there's nowhere to learn. I have to send a preschool kid abroad to get a movie to show at home on video. I don't know how long this is gonna go. The Constitutional Court is, for example, in several excerpts, and you know we've been getting this in this one for a long time, it hasn't been spoken of, rather than long ago, that we've discussed that the minister has resigned. And many of those who have convinced here that we will lose everything in the world if we don't pass such a freakish law. And 31 then in this country, I speak again, there is hope and a being trust her for equality and for the future, but for everyone, not just them. BiH legislation must take into account the effective possibility of using Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian language equally in public life. If the media isn't a public life, then I apologize. The highest standards, the European Charter for Regional Languages, are and its minorities should serve as a guideline for the three languages mentioned. Well, what is it here in this law-application nakarada? He says, the Constitutional Court stresses that any legal solution, which would be contrary to the principle of equality of all the languages of the constituent peoples, would be in the whole territory. We have amendments here, he says, only Serbian television to be seen in RS and federal only in the Federation. It just so happens she didn't cross the hill. And my people and the people who ran politics in that people said they shared Bosnia and that's why they're guilty. And she was divided without me. I don't want to share it. I don't want to share it. I want to be equal and I will succeed. It's very educational from this Constitutional Court a few points yet. Also, the effective participation of constituent peoples in the decision-making process, in the sense of preparing the absolute domination of one group over another, represents the vital interest of every constituent nation, including in this case. And I will not tire of how the Constitutional Court has already stressed the possibility of using Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, not only in front of BiH institutions, but also at the level of entities and all their administrative units, in legislative, executive, judicial and public life. That's what the Constitutional Court of this country wrote and I only read this to you. This was supposed to be at the first rally, if we're seriously considering this dear country of ours. To be civilized, to be polite and to be European and to talk immediately, on this subject, we are talking about security today, this is the basis of the country's security. This is the basis of its destabilization and bad ending. These bill proposals are embarrassing. And there are still people here to defend it. I believe I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14415	I thank Mr. Jović. Replica, Mrs. Palavrić, and Mr. Novaković, are the next Dr. Živković for the debate. After the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14416	I tried to refrain after Mr. Andrić's first speaker, however, and after Mr. Jović, I still can't. For me, the grades are unacceptable and I'm sick of them over my head. I do not accept, I am prepared to replace myself as a Bošnjakinja, like, the most numerous people in BiH in rights for the rights of Hrvat, as at least a number of people, if it has come to that. It has really come to this point that I can no longer listen to what Mr. Jović is saying. I highly appreciate it, but I do not accept that Srbin and Bošnjak have TV in BiH, without Hrvat having 32. That it is a federal or state television slightly more Bosniak than it is Croatian. I don't accept that. You have no argument for that. Also, when you talk to Mr. Jović about the Constitutional Court's decision, which was passed for the adoption of the law on higher education and when you talk about the use of language, I didn't have a decision to read, but I know that in the law on the education of amendments to the provision, under which a higher education institution can decide to use one of the three official languages, you didn't have an amendment to that article, and when I was saying that there needs an amendment, you said no, I don't have an amendment to it. I don't like any higher education institution and any educational institution using only one of the three official languages. I wanted to have the same Bosnian as it should have Croatian or Serbian. You say Montenegro has three channels. Is there a program on three channels? What Mr. Andrić is looking for and why you say that the Croatian people are at risk here, is that state television has three channels with exactly the same program and three languages of constituent peoples. So have we really come to the point that we are Switzerland and that we speak one Italian, one French, one German, and that we really don't understand each other. I don't want to watch, just whenever I press any button I have the same program, I wouldn't want it if I had the funds. If Bog does, then it comes to that, so when we have the means for the second, third and fifth channel, I want each one to have a different program, and each one to have languages and constitutive peoples and others, and, let me remind you, what you say is that the medium forms the consciousness of a man. That's what I'm afraid of, when you say, we want three channels in three languages. I do not want Bošnjak, when it includes a single channel, to have a vision in Bosnian to live in BiH, which is a country of one people, and will have it if all he sees all day is a programme in Bosnian and what he cares about, which is what the Bosniak people prefer. So, I don't want that kind of consciousness to be shaped, and as long as I'm able to decide, I'll never accept anything like that. When you say that there is no equality in the service law, I remind you of Article 8 subtitled representation according to the Constitution of BHRT..., in carrying out activities and in the human rights structure, implements relevant constitutional provisions regarding the equal rights of the constituent peoples and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know myself, I accept that this law is nowhere near what I would do as a BiH law, but I accept reality and accept that this may be some maximum compromise, maximum possible. If it were the way you say it was, believe me, I wouldn't be sitting in this House, I'd be ashamed to step out and resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14417	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaović. The parliamentary intervention was before. I'm asking you to listen to business intervention. All right, you'll get the line. This is a business intervention. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14418	I don't really talk to Mr. Jović or Mrs. Palavrić or the arguments, nor do I want to talk about the arguments. Each one in his own language of arguments and his emotions experiences something concrete, but I direct business intervention to the members of the College. When Mr. Jović first used, a man who calls himself a minister, I really thought it was about emotions. When it happened again, I expected the members of the College to intervene, the more this parliament, regardless of the individual vote, to support the election of the Council of Ministers and on two occasions, at the same time, it seems to me to be some or initiative for a shift or anything else, and I happen to know that Mr Jović has just given support to the Council of Ministers. With that, I suppose, indeed, that the river of emotion took place twice with Mr. Jović, when he used that construction of a man who calls himself a minister. And, secondly, let the qualification of fascisoid television for BH television whose director is Mr. Drago Marić, I don't think this is an address for the qualification of such a species and, if any, there really is someone's argument for such a qualification, don't go after a parliamentary speaker. Then you might want to offer some information with an argument so let's all be involved in it, I don't know what you have, but the fact that the fair is so qualified, without some need for some information about the debate on the law, I don't think it's the time or place for that kind of emotion. I agree that with the power of my arguments, someone is fighting for a position, but I ask you nicely, respecting the dignity of this House, the Council of Ministers, I am not defending Minister Dokić, but I am defending the institution of the Council of Ministers and the institution of the Ministers and I am giving members of the College one criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14419	Mr. Zorić. You'll all get all the business lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14420	Here's when you can say business any way you want, then I'll say it. But I will say one more constructive thing again, but it is that when someone uses intervention, business intervention is whether it must be called to the article, to say which article was injured in the Rules of Procedure and then to talk about it, rather than talking about it here, this was a replica to Mr. Jović and to disagree with Mr. Jović's presentation. So we stick to exactly what we signed up for. If he's got business, then let him, here, I don't, but I can't say otherwise that the abuse of business intervention is used.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14421	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. The word has Mr. Jović and Mr. Novakovioć, but the replicas. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14422	I will not be in order, here, to Honoring Professor Hadžiahmetović I would like to say that I did not feel that a single word had been used that would deny what I said. And, therefore, it seems to me that she agrees with me. From what she said, it's obvious that there's a people's right to be taken away in one country and I think we can agree on that. And when it comes to my speech, all you have to do is look at the fact that 99% of Hrvat don't pay their subscription. Why? I'll tell you now, because you're unilaterally informed. I live in media darkness in this country. And that's the difference between us. You all see to Trebević and Igman that's what you move about in information. And she's just the same because she's one-way. I spend six months together with ministers in education who are in the county looking on federal television to explain the position of the Croatian people in the school in the media. Did we hear that right? Six months. Is that my TV? Whose TV is that? I presented the reasoned data to Mrs Palavrić, 2% of Hrvat responded to the ministry in the Public Service and Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You're getting along. You can get along, even clap, but I disagree, so I say it out loud. You still feel bad for me to say that. You need to keep your mouth shut about the truth. To lie down and kick my ass. Well, it can't be. That's why I'm a man of reason with my own tongue who I'm trying to say is something wrong. Well, at least I can say that here, because that's what all the people I represent are asking me to do. They're asking me to tell you what I'm saying. It may be emotions, it may be to carry me, but it's human individually within me, but what smart and language say is much easier than the people say, it's much easier, and this is the people's Parliament and I here on behalf of the people say it. When I say about Mr. Dokić, the minister as long as someone calls for an explanation of the law that he is rested on the principles of Europe and violates the constitutional rights of a nation, he is for me so-called. Minister. We can agree. We don't have to, but I'll say so, because I have an argument, because you asked for an argument. I also want to say in this answer that was, we had the Law on Higher Education. The Constitutional Court brought, no, no, I'm not going to touch it, but I just want to, I brought it in specifically to what I read, so I wanted to point out, to give attention. Let's not fall into a new one like that, that same problem. Why should the people of one nation feel that they do not belong to this social community? Who is he who has the right to do so and under the motto – share Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is very expensive. I tell you, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been robbed three times from the aspect of television. I have arguments for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14423	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Novaković, so let's go to the hearing. I hope there's no more replicas. Please, and Mr. Špirić has it. Please, with all due respect, 35 I will not increase anyone in the debate, to reflect the laws and the need to discuss the quality of this situation. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14424	I thank Mr. Chairman, perhaps for these few years I have had the opportunity to react in the way my dear friend Miro Jović has now done. Maybe I could have told you about ministers even more about some than he said today. This place probably shouldn't allow a lot of emotion, and it would take a lot more sense. But well, of course every one of us is looking at it probably in his own way. That's why I didn't answer to give a lecture to Mr. Jović, just in time of work, but I answered to refuse any insinuation that was said by Mr. Jović that I or anyone from the SDS Club, and I believe other people who represent Serbian people here have negotiated with someone against the Croatian people. So there was no such deal. I'm convinced that there were no others and I've been eaten, no matter how anyone votes here has no purpose. And that's all I got up for. I have no intention of discussing this law at all. I have no intention of having a discussion at all because I'm simply very unhappy with the change in the initial text, but what I've realized here from the minister is that such changes haven't changed the essence. And that's why I won't participate in the debate, but I want to say that I've also never negotiated anything with anyone against anyone before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14425	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Replica. Was it a replica, sir? Before Mr. Špirić has a replica. Okay. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14426	Like this. Mr. Novaković said there was no deal. I think counterpart Jović is right that there was an agreement, because it was told there by a pay phone that a compromise was reached. I claim that no one from the HDZ Club has been involved in a compromise. Now who, I asked the minister, the minister wouldn't answer, probably won't answer, because he was asked politely, so counterpart Belkić, who I completely agree with answered the question, didn't answer mine, even ignored him. He said a compromise was reached twice. And between whom is that? Unless it was Lozančić or Jozo Križanović, there are no more Hrvat here. That's why I'm asking who was on that deal where a compromise was reached from the HDZ Club of Democracy is not anyone. So these two people remain my people. Well, no one else made a deal. There when the minister lists three of these, three of what he didn't say from this nation of 12 or 15 of these, no one was from this people. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14427	Can we make a deal? Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Bešlagić. Everyone's been looking for a replica, and I'm asking you to respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14428	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and the Honorable Ministers, I think today this debate is unnecessarily coming out of what could be called a good parliamentary debate with the aim of reaching a good state law. I think, for what was said to be good, we can all, of course, discuss in one way or another, but I think the way Jović addressed the minister, and when I asked for the Council of Ministers' shift he voted to stay for thanks, that he deserved at least a human apology. I have no reason to defend myself, no reason to be their lawyer, no reason why the arrangement of the tv service isn't good and we're looking for a new law. But call it fascioid media, and that's where our colleagues work, they're not fascists because the organization isn't good. I think better words must be chosen for the ambience we are building, Mr. Jović, although I am willing to listen to all the arguments HDZ will make regarding dissatisfaction, agreement or disagreement with the law. I don't think you're going to get any MPs to support something that he's ready for or not ready for. To talk today when the law is this about when there were two against one. Well, it's been four years. So it wasn't Bosnia and Herzegovina that was divided by Nikola Špirić, it was the Washington Agreement when the enemies were others. Here we are today in Parliament, discussing the future of our country for a reason. So I ask you, I think that, so I invite Mr. Jović before we engage, it would be very good if we had been engaged in an expert debate, if people said we disagreed with that member, and he has an amendment and that, if we had colleagues, it would be good for the Minister to apologize and the Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It'd be good for the public. We can all be, I'm from an MP who sometimes speaks fiercely, but making sure in this way he doesn't say a word that can't hurt people for no reason. You can talk about dissatisfaction for the sake of the national structure of employees, without the word fascism. Fascism means something else. It can be said that the minister has done a bad law. And you can talk about it, and I allow it. But I don't think the insults are necessary, and I think if the amendments from the HDZ Club are prepared, I ask you to let them know, to discuss them, to see if we can get to the law. But I want to say, therefore, that I respect the effort that has been made, but I must tell you that you have a minister in the Council of Ministers that it was not possible for this law to come to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's representative council that the ministers on behalf of the HDZ Club were against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14429	It's possible it's not. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14430	You have a party president who has not voted against this law, which is also a minister. What happened in the meantime? Is this some new fight for national equality that I absolutely have nothing against, let's just say that people are equal in this country. Tell us as your colleagues, we could discuss it. But I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14431	Nikola, it's a debate, please prepare for the debate, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14432	So I'm asking no offense. I've never been with anyone in an organized way or when I'm gonna be. I have no reason to be me against the Hrvat in this country. So I think it would be good before we get into this phase to get the strength to apologize, it's not inhuman. I mean, it's on the line of what we all want to get to a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14433	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I will intervene means in terms of replication of Mr Špirić's presentation, the vašingtonski Agreement did not divide Bosnia and Herzegovina, but opened the process of reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this would be a great debate on all the consequences and elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood and who has threatened and today threatens and I do not think that anyone, either I or Mr Špirić should share lessons here, also in a way that has been voted in the Council of Ministers. Mr Špirić, on a vital issue on the education of the Council of Ministers, said 5:4. You didn't intervene then, not today either. You voted as you voted, let people fight for their rights. If they go too far, they'll get the strength to apologize. Mr. Bešlagić. You can, you can always. He can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14434	Mr. Chairman, if you want to create another atmosphere, you're welcome to tell me. It's no problem, you can create with me any atmosphere you want. I call for tolerance. Today is about discussing two important laws. It's not the Education Act. The Constitutional Court has given its vision, I respect it, I don't want to comment on it anymore. So today is on the agenda, let them argue. I said it was in the Council of Ministers that this would come to debate. I have the right, of course, to say that as well as all my colleagues. I didn't insult anyone, and I won't do it. But if you want to allow such a fierce fight for 38 national rights, then tell us, then we'll have one, say good debate. I have said my vision of the Weinkton Agreement, which has strengthened the Federation. I don't mind that, and then it was 2:1 and it was four years and I don't know who it was and what it was all for. I don't mind that, so I didn't criticise the Washington Agreement, but just responded to the claim that the Bošnjak and Srbin agreed on this case to be against the Hrvat as I disagree, because they didn't. I wasn't on that deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14435	Thank you very much. I suggest you do. Mr. Bešlagić. Please, we'll respect the order. We'll put the ball on the ground, we'll talk, everyone will be allowed. My intervention was not in the sense of burning the atmosphere, but intervention on the invoices that were taken out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14436	Mr. Chairman, let me just say a few words for one simple reason why I don't know what we're discussing anymore. We have a first-point system, right? What I'm saying is that the Commission has been sitting for nine hours, six hours of which these two laws have been passed. The commission also included Mr Andrić, who is the promoter of the amendments, the essential thing, whose proposal for amendment number IX, article 9 was adopted. Therefore, when it comes to the system, I think it was the only proposal adopted and I think that the President of the Commission should make his views known and say what we agreed on. I must say that I was extremely obliged that after six hours of debate, we today have amendments to amendments that have not passed on the Commission. And I've given the amendment as an exact possibility that we can negotiate and agree. First, the first law we are discussing is here and I say the amendment that Mr. Andrić has proposed, adopted, and I believe that he is in line with this system so that it should be considered in a different way than this second part. I mean, we really tried to be parliamentary on the Commission and we tried to argue. There were the members we brought, but I didn't pass my amendments, so what? They didn't pass, the Commission proposed and we move on. I thought today we were going to discuss the amendments that have been made, the amendment, and I have to say believe me, there have been outbursts on the Commission in this sense and that we have explained ourselves there. I think it is necessary to discuss these matters and allow me, I would ask if it is possible to get a judicial ruling on education, because we are the only ones in this House who voted in favour of the amendments that you have proposed. So I'd ask to get that decision, because I'd be very glad to have it. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14437	Thank you very much. Was there a replica yet? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14438	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14439	Okay. This was a order of replicas, Mr. Jović, and you'll get a replica. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14440	Here to answer directly to Mr. Bešlagić, and I have time. Here you go. If I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14441	Please, Filip, is this an intervention for Mr Bešlagić's exposure? And let's stick to time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14442	I'll do it very briefly, it's an amendment to the system accepted. I explained it there. That amendment to the system is essentially causally related to this amendment to others that are intruding at the essence of the things I'm talking about. The system is acceptable if the second amendment has passed which unfortunately has not passed on the Commission. So I can't positively determine the system if I haven't changed the position I've been telling this story with another amendment. Therefore, only the answer to Mr Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14443	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrić. Mr. Zorić, then Mrs. Sopta. Well, I told Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14444	Lucky me when I have so many arguments, you don't have to think about what I'm gonna say. Here's what's said, Mr. Zorić, I've got the wrong quote, and he said that some of them were making deals there. From the Council of Ministers and the Resorship Ministry, we have received the structure of the national existing radio and television stations. And it says there, the national structure is Bošnjak, Bosanac, Hrvat, Srbin and others. If you didn't hear correctly, I can read it again, but I think you heard it right. So the Bošnjak, then the Bosanac, then the Hrvat, etc., so the Bosanac are 18.5%, and the Hrvat are 2%, and the Bošnjak is 50% or more. The rest are 10%, and the Hrvat are 2%. 40 I mean, I got it from the Ministry, so I don't know where the Minister got it, but the responsible man in the Minister's office to write the nationality of the Bosanac and the others. Bošnjak, Bosanac, Hrvat, Srbin and others. That's why I don't get it. I'm prepared as a courteous man who wants to apologize to Europe wherever and who I insult, but not Mr Špirić's way to whom I can and may have been a professor. Well, I don't allow the way he would want me to apologize. Let the gentlemen who proposed the law amending the law make and comply with European rights, principles and conventions and my apology will come. I said it was embarrassing to propose a law that is contrary to European principles and that is why I said it was embarrassing. I didn't say that I disrespected the person, I demeaned the proposal that's here on the table over the people who did it, and it's certain that people agreed, but there were no Hrvat among them. So I'll do it now. Doesn't mean he probably had someone before to say what I'm saying right now. What's wrong with that? I still want to say this, you don't have gentlemen, I wish there were people from these media houses that I called to conduct racist policies. Let the affirmative show on the life and work of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina be shown. If there's one drama, if there's one movie, if there's anything to say about the culture and tradition of the people living here. There isn't. There isn't. We are in The Hag, the villains, the fascists, the slaughterers, so there are no words that are not mentioned every evening to people who have not yet been condemned. I've listened to six Hrvat go to The Hague for a week. The Bošnjak who are tried, who are in court, there are no citizens in the city who live in who knows who this Kubura is who killed the people in the city he lives in. And he's in The Hague. Why? That same TV won't tell who that man is. And I'm done, I can see you're angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14445	Let's not be angry. It's time, Mr. Jović. We have to go to everyone. Replication time. Thank you very much. Doctor Živković's hearing. Excuse me, Mrs. Sopta. Excuse me, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14446	It is strange in this hall to feel that advocacy on one TV service and state-owned BiH, the advocacy of three channels in three official languages challenges a big storm and pushes us precisely into the corners of the ones that we really need to be, that is, in which we are, so everyone from that corner looks differently at the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr Špirić sees her as a divided state already, and I will immediately mention to Mr Špirić apro after his invitation by fellow Jović for an apology. I have been bitter so many times, and so many times I have been amazed by his words when he says – you have led one another, slaughtered one another, you have led the people to slaughter one another, directed to all of us parliamentarians especially from national parties. So Mr. Špirić never apologized to us for that. 41 And as for the angle of seeing Mrs. Palavrić, I was also surprised and afraid of this. The language of Mrs Palavrić was not about the consciousness of the people, but about the content of the speech and what in this case the content of the program, and this vision of yours returns me at that time, those times that have been in this space for 50 years, advocating some mix language. Or rather, this leads to the advocacy of a university professor of the future arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina where this will be Bosnia where we will all be Bosanac and where it will be Bosnian. It's very, very disappointing to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14447	I thank Mrs. Sopta. No more replicas. We have Mr. Živković for the raps. Did you ask Mr. Zorić for a hearing? You're not. So Jelina Đurković, right? If you want, fine. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14448	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring down a little tension in this House and that if we can agree to discuss this kind of thematic debate on the threat of the people to the very system that is more than guilty or less, we can make one thematic session so that we can apologize nicely, that everyone can tell everyone what he thinks about him and talk about the law here. On several occasions, you said that a member was changed to the commission where they were said to discharge once a week. I'm interested, since we made a compromise solution at that committee session where I was, where the proposal was to once a month empty the account, to make it like here, at least once a week. Whether or not this finding pleases you at least once a week. That doesn't mean it has to be a week. At least once a week can be every day. I think that's a compromise solution for you to mention twice that it should be every day. This solution is quite good, I don't see that it needs to be changed, and if it's good for you, I think what we've done here with these amendments and on that committee is enough and we need to vote on the principles of the law, and then we need to agree on each amendment in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14449	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14450	So here's the deal. I will accept the law as the Council of Ministers has proposed with those amendments adopted by our commission, and in fact, I would not want to enter into these bitter controversy about whether this is good or not, but I would actually need to say 42, here since the Higher Education Act was in the process and this is how the Croatian club, or the Club of HDZ, responds to the fact that we are looking at a problem that is happening here and it seems to me that the gentlemen have, to skip an instance that is important when it comes to these relations. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is skipping. It seems to me that problems should be solved there when it comes to rights both on television and on the channel. Can we, I wonder, can this be resolved at the Federation level so we can have fewer problems when we pass laws at a state level? So this is for me now. I have a dilemma. Is it possible to settle things at the Federation level, because when we say an entity, then it turns out that they are being identified with Bošnjak and Srbin, and in the Federation, so in an entity called the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore they can also be dealt with constitutionally and systemically by some of these issues, whether it would be resolved, whether this problem can first be solved at the Federation level in order to make it easier for us to separate these things. That entity one entity doesn't belong to just once, another entity just to someone else again, but to actually have this instance to solve the problem at entity level, and then to go to state. That's it. I'd just like to see if it can be solved to make there's less of a problem here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14451	Thank you Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Short, please, Mr. Jović, and Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14452	Please in the Constitution of Republika Srpska, I think the article 83rd and the Constitution of the Federation on the use of the language and constitutionality of the people, is it a sin to seek television that would be seen throughout our dear Bosnia and Herzegovina in all three languages. Well, I am against that close-up in small spaces. Europe has also opened up to me children, and I have to tell you most often watch the German program, because these are uninteresting. But I want to be there when I come to my Bihać, to my Bijeljin and to my Capljin to see TV and people who live there. Well, that's why he's got a remote control, so switch the channel and that's it. That's the difference. Respecting the constitutions of the Republika Srpska and the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14453	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14454	...this member is in fact
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14455	Is it a replica to exposure? 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14456	Replication to Mr. Jović's presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14457	Here you go. Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14458	It was such a proposal to close in the Atares and on the Commission is what is said ad hoc rejected to be able to put it. Therefore, the Commission adopted the proposal and we were all, it is said, cannot be accepted to watch all three channels, so that we in the Federation and Republika Srpska are closed, and that article is rejected. What I'm saying is that we're on the Commission right now, respecting the debate that we've been having just contributed to at least this first law, I'm talking about the first law because I'm still trying, just that kind of nonsense, we're saying it's stupid and it's stupid whoever said to close down on the entity line, it's really stupid. I think we have respected this and I say that all the remarks made on the Commission have been practically adopted in the debate so far. I'm not talking about now putting amendments on the amendments, that's what makes me as a man now as an MP here insults, not an insult, but it's the right one, but the essential thing has to go through the amendments, so I won't, then there's no compromise and there I agree with you. There's this problem, so some things are adopted, and that's why I'm here, that's all I'm intervened for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14459	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Here, wait. All right, come on. Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14460	Just on this question, is it possible to resolve this at Federation level? If it were possible it would have been resolved by now, because the equipment from the television that was at the time I don't know by 2000 EROTEL all the equipment ended up on Federal TV, and the fact is that we didn't get the channel in Croatian on Federal TV, which means, we'd probably get it by now. It's obviously not possible. In my opinion, it was possible that the promoter had a little more hearing, so he might be looking for a solution like that. Perhaps then we would have no need for this debate and for a solution at BiH level. But when we think about how to look now, when we have already failed at Federation level to get nothing for four years, then we have sought understanding here to see it at BiH level. It's on one side. On the other hand, BiH television covers the whole area. So the possibility is also given to the Serb in the Federation to watch the programme in Serbian and Hrvat and Bosniak, which is located in Republika Srpska. Just this so we don't lock ourselves in entity lines. If there's a possibility anyone who wants a choice, take a remote and what channel do you want to watch. Well then I would probably very often and gladly look at 44 channels in both Serbian and Bosnian, but unfortunately I have no chance to look at it in my own language.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14461	Thank you, Mr. Andrić. So Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Križanović. Is it a debate or is it a replica? I haven't had a report to your Mr. Križanović, and if he has any objections, let me know. Is there a replica with you? Then may I give my word to Mr. Dokić. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Dokić. I'm sorry I didn't see you looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14462	Mr. Chairman, here are some of the mildest things that have been said in terms of taste, and I will stick to any unspeakable gold in this matter. I didn't avoid the ladies answering what there were compromises about, and whoever followed closely could have gone through the media to get to know what compromise solutions had to be found about. Allow me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14463	Please, let's listen to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14464	The first thing to look for compromise solutions is competence and authority of a public corporation. The other thing about which compromise solutions were to be sought is a way of funding and an account that was finally made as it was done, with a note that I have to say that I can only talk about those compromises that were made until the Council of Ministers' meeting, and after that, it is no longer my jurisdiction. I just mentioned one question about the amendments that I asked you to reconsider, thinking it's better for the service, once again, that it's a daily demand that the money go to them, not to stand at the bank, but that's your thing again, please. It's your thing to accept it. I have no right to talk about these compromises. And I have to tell you this. Every working group had Hrvat. I speak in plural. I'm sorry to have to bring my discussion down to this, but it happened, even the smallest, there were Hrvat in the crowd speaking. This law on the Council of Ministers is not overvoted. At the end of the board where the Hrvat were once again and all day of the debate, 45 The law was unanimously accepted by all. There was no suggestion of change. I beg you, then, it would be your turn to respect certain basic things. If you'll excuse me, that's all I'm going to say. The Communication Commission has left the possibility by respecting Article 9's intervention to address this issue differently. It is not a meaningless, insignificant compromise that has been made, and also in a member who speaks of programming principles there explicitly states that through the programming principles all three constituent peoples must be satisfied. So that's where it's left behind, a place to establish equality. When I said the law included European standards and recommendations, I meant European experts, not my grade. On the other hand, gentlemen and you have adopted at this home 16 points relating to the accession process in Europe and there is explicitly a system of three public services and a fourth legal entity, providing stable funding, and I think these are basic things. Respecting things now has a whole other dimension that I seem to have no right to speak of in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14465	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Replica Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14466	I will not speak hurtly as Mr. Minister at all, I will speak proudly here, no matter who knows which time I and this club will be reputed. But I asked to be told who made the compromise, but I didn't get the answer again. I want names and last names. Was it a group of nine, here's nine names. Was it from 2, here's 2. etc. No Niko here has disputed that we did not get conditions, but not content, not content terms, take or leave. I have a report from the Commission, we are now talking about a report from the Commission on the Public Radio Television System that there, Mr Branko Dokić, the minister defended the Serbian people's views, that the prime minister defended the Bosniak people's views. So the session lasted nine hours. It's not as many pages as we have here. That's a fact. And the revision of the amendment, the OHR accepts this, I accept this, no one accepts this. It's absurd. And what it means here is to go out to the pay phone and say, "I'll shut up." Here's what I'm gonna say. And I'm full of bile. Here's me, Mr. Secretary. I'll keep my Dokić shut, because you've been silent.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14467	Who's next for the debate? I raised and returned Mr. Novaković four times. Please hold. Come on. Please repeat your replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14468	...because this is a historic moment surely of this House. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14469	He's pulling, because this is the continuity of history.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14470	It's clear and happy to know that I'm going to tell my grandkids a big constitutional decision. With pride, as much as there was in me, when I was fighting, when it was unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14471	It's all there. Just replicate it specifically.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14472	It's just about the replica, and now I want to say it. No new argument. You know, gentlemen, I'm asked to apologize for fighting for equal standards and rights for all people. Well, who's crazy about it? I'm asking us all to be equal. In rights and obligations. And I'm bad. And those who are against it do good. The people said, "What a wise man is ashamed of, a fool is proud."
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14473	Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14474	Perhaps for the sake of further discussion and the law itself and amendments it is important to say on what Mr. Minister said, we do not dispute the existence of three services or the existence of a corporation. From all we ask, we ask for three channels to be opened at one service and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in three languages. I don't think it disturbs the law, not disrupts the principles, but that the ducks strengthens, I think it strengthens the principles of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14475	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Novaković did, if I didn't make a mistake right now. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not, in my discussion, cause any special replicas, and I would pray, truly, that is not my intention, and I hope that after my discussion, I will not expose myself to any insults, because that is not my intention either. It seems to me that after coming forward, Mr. Minister and the next way to vote on the Council of Ministers that Mr. Jović's justified anger is not addressed to Minister 47 Dokić, but to some other ministers who are there... and I think, if there is one, it should be pointed out then. And that's why it's not right, it's really not right to bring all the problems around this law down to the level of the ministry. But, of course, I did not report back to Mr Jović for anything I suggest, so I answered to say a few words first of all that I asked the parliamentary question for the national structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Radio Television and I must say in a comment that said exactly what Mr Jović was talking about and expressed his dissatisfaction with the national structure. I have proposed, on this basis, the Law amending and supplementing the Law, but I am also advised by the Presidents of the Commission and the Commission to withdraw it since these issues will be properly resolved in this law. Is that a solution in Article 8. The law on the tv system, or not, is now a question for discussion. It seems to me that this article 8 can get away with it, it can get away with it as a basis for changing such a situation. The second thing I could see from these discussions here was the dissatisfaction with the situation in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina TV, or the Croatian Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the situation as it is now is bad, and I have to say that many times, watching that television, I have had the opportunity to see what Mr. Jović is talking about. But it's not on the agenda here today. The second is whether adopting these laws will change it now or not. If we have these legal solutions, we have the possibility of affecting it or not having such a program scheme not being in the future. I must say, with this programming scheme, not only are the Hrvat unhappy. And we Srbin are dissatisfied with the way we introduce ourselves in federal television and federal television. But we know we don't handle it with this law. There is a Federation Parliament that will address these issues particularly when it comes to the programme scheme. What's more important, at least to me as an MP here that these laws don't segregate, so that we don't have this that I haven't been able to see really what we're talking about here today. No, at least not the way it was said here today. We are probably left with all of us here and here at this level, and also at the level of parliamentary levels in entities to fight against these programming schemes being the way they are right now. If that structure wasn't there, people wouldn't be preparing programs like they are now being prepared, because they certainly didn't contribute to the atmosphere that we would be here today when we talk. I beg you therefore it's not something that seems to me with these laws here today can change either in one direction or in another. It is essential to me that these laws create and open up such an option, and I have already said Article 8 or Article 24 of the TV service enable and provide these opportunities that I am talking about. For these reasons, and what I just said we will support, so the SDS Club will support the principles of this law and of course we will see further this regarding the other amendments, etc. We'll commit later. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14477	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14478	Thank you, Chairman. I've really been thinking about giving up the discussion, because I'm a little confused, I don't really know if we're discussing today's proposal for a Law on the Public Radio TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or whether we're opening a debate on both laws. I have the impression that we've opened a debate on both laws, because as far as I'm aware of the proposal for this law on the radio television system, I don't think there are any of these things that are mostly discussed. Secondly, if it comes from the fact that it is impossible to pass the first law, unless there is a guarantee of another law on which there is one amendment by the HDZ Club that I am not going to discuss now, then it seems to me that this is coming into a concept conflict and this law on the public TV system. If justified demands by HDZ on the equality of the people in the media, in public television services, then it seems to me that only one law on radio television service should be passed. One for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one radio television for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina with three channels. Then we don't need this public radio service law. So if, I think, we stay in this position that we haven't, it seems to me that we're about to lose a lot of time and I'm afraid we won't be coming out of this situation today. If we have adopted the agenda and if only this point is on the agenda, then I now have the Law on the Public Radio Television System, I would like to suggest that we concentrate on it and I don't think there's any specific or problem about it. Here, I can state that in that case, if we focus on this, we can also support the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14479	...no more reported. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14480	...a number of times called president of this committee, believe me, if anyone has a headache and anyone gets tired, I think the Commission and the ministry who really did a lot of work to get this law done. I want to meet this house, after all, that we've discussed these laws twice, so in two different terms. When we first had the Commission, having seen many amendments, we immediately decided that in the first part, that the first 49 days of discussion meant the principles of these laws, with the conclusion, I repeat, with the conclusion that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Council of Ministers, the European Commission, OHR and the amendment promoters sat down and possibly agreed on as many amendments as possible. So we adopted this law in principle and scheduled a seven-day extension of the Commission's session where we will only conduct a debate on amendments. So we've left seven days for these people that I've listed to be able to adopt, i.e. to agree as much as possible with as many amendments as possible. That's what it was at the end of the day. So that day when we discussed the amendments, we discussed 9 hours. All these people I was talking about were present at the Commission's session, and normally everyone could have said their opinion. What matters is what seems to me hasn't been told so far and what we need to be honest with each other here. Against this amendment, which Mr Andrić spoke of, well now I return to the service, most of which were representatives of the European Commission and OHR. Here are the members of the Commission here, who were not here against the meanings of neither the Srbin nor the Bošnjak, but I am speaking so now on my own, I have been restrained, I have been realistically looking at this situation, and I am sure, I repeat, to be honest, means that we as the Commission have adopted this amendment that probably means that this law that we adopt this amendment would not be accepted means neither by the European Commission nor by the OHR. I repeat, they were only against this amendment and I think we're accusing ourselves too much of each other because others, to say, were primarily against it. Secondly, I have here a document that all club presidents, all club presidents, seem to be told by the members we have or do not have a comment of 17 members of this law on which the European Commission has commented and suggestions. Furthermore, to be honest again, Mrs Palavrić and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that all the remarks of the European Commission and OHR that they were transformed into amendments by Mrs Palavrić, by the way that she normally had her own amendments that seemed to me to be a total of 28. I repeat that we are too much of a re-indiction between ourselves, and only to say no, here are the members of the Commission here say and when we voted on the amendments there were three for, three abstentions and three against. If we're talking now, maybe I'm talking to Srbin, Bošnjak, some kind of deal, so from the Srbin it was for Mr. Živković, if I have Mr. Živković's right to say, so the amendment was no Mr. Živković, so there's no agreement between these or those, so I think I'm saying that the Commission, like the Commission, means who are these, it's said, Mr. Bešlagić said that we've tried really as much as we could to think about compromises and that's why we've stayed this way. So we have stayed this long and believe me, those amendments, remember what I said, means those amendments adopted by the Commission, the question of whether the European Commission and the OHR will accept. I am saying to be honest, the question is what will be further than those amendments that we as the Commission have accepted. That's it. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14481	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. Replica Mr. Živković, then debate Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14482	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as we started in detail to enter, I told the Commission that it was necessary to pass a law that would adopt this parliamentary assembly and the House of Peoples. And we spent a lot of time today, practically taking bread from the House of Peoples. There the threat of the people is to be debated, there the law should also be considered if there is someone at risk to determine according to the Constitutional Court. So we're doing nothing here. If we need more talk for three hours, but it takes someone else in another place to determine. We need to vote here on this law and amendments that we have ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14483	I thank Mr. Živković. Replica Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14484	Let me also be allowed to say a relaxing sentence. I've been looking for one occasion for my town of pedagogical academy, the university rector says - a respected colleague so where you'll be building a pedagogical academy there when you don't have a tranvay. The college can be where there's a tranway. Dear Professor, help me make a tranway. I need a pedagogue academy. That's how we heard you bring it out here today through the media. How I'm going to take it out through the media when I don't have the media. I would be calm at the place of everyone here in the hall if I were Bošnjak or Srbin, because I have a medium. But I don't have a media. No, no, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, in a political sense, God Bog. I don't need a medium like that. I don't need a medium in a political sense. I need an educational one, I need a medium that will justify what I, as a citizen and my family, expect in terms of information, the preservation of tradition and the culture of a people. I don't have it now. So I don't have a chance, I don't have a chance. I'm afraid I haven't even written. And when we talk here about the international community and scare us, that's why I'm talking to my colleagues, Jovanović. But I'm not scared, I'm on the right track. I used it in my first act today that I want Gandhi's way. I have no intention, nor when I was going to, I look a little sharper, temperament a little southern, but Bog forbid the ugly think of another man, high moral principles against another man. It irritates me when someone else wants to interpret that I'm okay, and I'm being tight. And the principle of applying that isn't applicable anywhere, so give me that OHR, here today we'll have the next law. 51 Yesterday I was the only one on the Commission against one law, it's about registration or business entities. Once again, there's a White World elite who wants to impose something on us that insists on one division, and I don't want to. So that's how I answer to the gentleman here today, I'd be much quieter if I had at least the media of the local people. But I can't agree to attacks, I can't answer needs, I don't have the opportunity to be equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14485	I thank Mr. Jović. The word is Mr. Nikola Šprić. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14486	Do they have a replica? I'll wait for some replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14487	The replica of Mrs. Sopta. I didn't have a record.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14488	The truth is, as my colleague Jovanović says, it is true that by deciding on the principles we returned, we said that we would discuss the amendments when the ministry, amendments and OHRs agreed. The truth is that Mr. Andrić's amendment promoter was not invited to this reconciliation. And the truth is also that the agreement with OHR has not been reached on many amendments yet, and they are not being discussed here and no one is asking the question of these amendments and whether OHR is there, whether it will react one way or another. And it is true, Mr Dokić, that you know the same way that this law entered the Council of Ministers' agenda, and at the very least, it seems unfair to me that you call our ministers that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14489	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Nikola Špirić, then Mr. Sead Avdić. Mr. Špirić. Please, please, please, I'm asking representatives for order and peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14490	Mr. Chairman, I will, of course, take a moment when this law is at stake, and I am pleased that the atmosphere is again tolerated and that we can talk about the law. I must say that I appreciate the efforts that the Commission and the resolution minister have made to come to the original text of the law, to say that as chairman of several discussions with the ministry, I called for the law to come because it was one of the 16 conditions and that is why I want to say that I appreciate the effort that has been made and the bill that we have received. 52 In that sense, I think that the Commission has done well, that this law has been incorporated by 35 amendments and it seems to me that, if we would like to come without an ideal but generally acceptable law, then we should have appetites for the amendment phase to actually come to a reduction in the law. In this sense, I would like to say that the party I belong to is the NSD that we have decided to give up the amendments that we have prepared to contribute to the law, to adopt the law. In that sense, I would like to say that we will support this law in the principles of what would be good, of course, to return to the tolerance of the atmosphere today as well as to other legislative projects that were part of the conditions, we show good will to vote on all amendments, so on all amendments submitted to make a statement and, of course, to go to another reading. The one who supports today's amendment will also support it in seven days, the one who will vote today against the law, will vote in seven days, and it seems to me that today we should put forth additional effort and goodwill to get to this, to these two important legislative projects. I must say that I am not satisfied, of course, with all the amendments adopted by the Commission, but I do not think it is important for this Parliament to make a positive decision. I don't think that's why it should be a problem, especially what Minister Dokić said about the funds being operators, should be operational to operators and serve for their purpose, not that the bank spins them, but I think that this can be done by technical instructions, the law says up to 7 days, which means that technically it can be regulated that the search is every day, but it says here for at least 7 days. I don't think it's good if compromises are made that the percentage that belongs to which operator is changed. But if that is the unanimous position of the Commission, the majority position of the Commission I have no objection to that change being accepted. So that we can force all the amendments that have arrived in time for Parliament to declare them today and bring together the first and second readings on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14491	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would try to return to part of these two laws ahead of us, believing that in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a multinational state, a complex state-decentralised state, multinational terror as we say objectively these issues are of crucial importance. So editing public radio broadcasters is objectively of the key issues. 53 In this context, it is not disputed that we must also respect and respect the European Charter of Human Rights and a decision on the constitutionality of the people in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's not a lot of alternatives, maneuver space, etc. etc. The laws that are objectively before us are created on the principle of the existing state and on this existing state with which, so I would say all three peoples are not satisfied objectively we have built a new concept that has been built by the adoption of this compromise to form even a fourth legal entity that will coordinate these three entities. And now that's really a problem for me. Personally, as a human myself, from the point of view of the rationality of politics and the functioning of such a public radio television system, or corporations objectively cannot, you have not convinced me through these laws which are arguments for the formation of a new corporation that will manage only with a broadcasting system that remains the property of individual broadcasters of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's just a corporation that will coordinate, harmonize the use of so-called personnel resources, technical potentials, so information technologies, etc. etc. Which means the law is a compromise and one law and the other. They're not the best solution. They're not the best solution. They're not an optimal solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no dilemma of any kind. This isn't the best solution. I'm really sorry. So this isn't the best solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's for sure. So it's based on an existing solution, etc. I'm just asking you, here's what I'm talking about right now, whether the real broadcaster in Republika Srpska will remain exclusively in Serbian, with an editorial policy that is exclusively directed towards the Serbian people, etc. etc. Right, Momo? So are there going to be any shows of editorial policy that are going to be red for Bosniaks or Hrvat? Let me ask you something. ________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] To apologize, niđo, please, so we can discuss it this way. So the decision on the constitutionality of the people must be respected. It has to be respected. And if someone thinks they're going to keep the existing situation in... then they're wrong, then this is a kind of scam of both law and law. No way, people. These are radical changes. Radical changes. Which means we can discuss this way that I'm discussing even though I don't want to, I think I'm apologizing. So I told Momo that we simply don't simply solve these problems with replicas. So the laws aren't the best solution for both of us and for me, this corporation is unnecessary. Unnecessary. It is just an expression of the compromise and inability to negotiate within these three public radio television services. So that really the public radio service of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not enough to be a corporation and unite these two. Who's that bothering? Why does a fourth foreign subject have to? Why are we spending money? Why is he forming a new legal entity? It's for coordination. So, I apologize for the compromise. Great. 54 So, no, no, I apologize, I apologize, this is my discussion, and I have to, my conscience tells me to say, so I would beg a lot of tolerance and patience to simply not repeat the voting system from some sessions, I ask you, regardless of the parliamentary majority and everything else, not to repeat myself, to respect what the Council of Ministers has done, I am pleased that the Ministerial Council has unanimously supported these two legislative projects, if I have heard correctly. Unanimity! Which means, I apologize and the president of the HDZ voted this one and the other law. If that's the case, then I just can't understand, and I don't want to understand, simply the HDZ Club or the individuals who react in this way. I apologize, I apologize, I apologize. The Council of Ministers is the first filter and I as a simple party man in the Council of Ministers will not vote for the law, I will not vote for the law because I am carrying part of the responsibility, because the law will come before Parliament. Then I can consider it some other difficult terms, coloring etc. etc. Then we can discuss it. I beg you, so objectively we need to take more seriously what the Council of Ministers brings so that we can't just be distanced from it at Parliament. That it's a Lagumdžija, etc. It's a different story, but simply a parliamentary majority. Which means to be perfectly clear, I apologize. I apologize, I take a little joke aside, it's nothing. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14494	There's plenty of us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14495	So please, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, three ethnic communities and the others, three peoples, simply have, in my opinion, I'm sorry, two identities for me. One is a cultural one that preserves, language, letter, customs, tradition, culture, religion and everything else, it is not a controversial and political identity. The political identity that binds you to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina you live in. Which means if these two identities aren't balanced, it's no good. I therefore appreciate that the European Community and OHR have been partially resistant to these proposals because it is difficult then to simply count on one full political reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that, in that sense, it is a problem. Political identity and cultural identity must be balanced and balanced. And in this context, I think, if, if these two laws have achieved such a high degree of consensus, I will not be resolutely opposed, but then it should be required to leave freedom to another reading to strengthen this decision on the constitutionality of the people, to strengthen the obligation in editorial and programming policy in terms of simple cultivation of cultural tradition, letters, customs, faith and everything else, and in this context of editorial and programming policy, to simply solve the problem of what we are talking about today. It might just be a possible way out of this situation. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14496	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, then the debate of Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14497	A colleague Avdić here said he would no longer be like so far thinking, alluding to the Federal Television and Television programme of Republika Srpska. We Hrvat are already convinced that it is no longer like so far, but even worse. It's worse. You can say that these aren't the most, these are very bad solutions. Not that they're not the best. I am so that we here in Parliament are making the best solutions, and if these are not the best ones, it just confirms what I was saying to the resolution minister here that the commission was even worse than this law, the commission that made this law. Since we never know which one it is, I asked today a representative question to tell me which Mr. Jahić meant by expert groups that prepare laws when he spoke in the Council of Europe. I want to get the composition of those experiments. How do I not know? So you mentioned the president of HDZ here when these two laws came to the agenda, he said so people what the hell is wrong with you I didn't read those laws. Then it was said, I haven't even got them yet, and they said no urgency, the European Commission, this, that. The man admitted to the Council of Ministers that he hadn't read them. The man confessed, or lied to his club. I speak plainly here. It is not my problem, it is not my problem, nor yours, Mr. Novaković, but it is not a problem for Mr. Avdić as HDZ president voted, nor is it a problem for Minister Dokić. So I think that these commissions that are preparing our laws, which Mr Jahić also praised in the Council of Europe, are not good, they bring us nothing good. Why none of the representatives or members of the resolutions, members of the relevant committees are in those groups. How can a representative of OHR tell his colleague Ruža Sopta – so you should push this solution from the beginning and there would be no problem. So if we knew about the expert group, then maybe we'd pass that proposal, but we don't know about it. We don't know about that. We never know who's making the law. I say here openly whenever I see at the beginning of the law what little and, well two small and, well three small and, and the explanation of the concepts, I understand where that law comes from.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14498	Azra Hadžiahemtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14499	Thank you. Allow only one correction. I just didn't pick up the replica to keep the atmosphere warm. My first intervention was a business intervention in accordance with Article 58. Rules of Procedure, I pointed out at the outset that it was a business intervention and it wasn't a replica. 56 Today, among other things, I found the final version of Resolution 1383 of the Council of Europe. To remind you, by the name of a fair obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, the Monitoring Committee which contains recommendations and recommendations among other things, one of the recommendations addressed to the Committee of Ministers to closely monitor the issue of freedom of the media in BiH and to ensure that the Law on Public TV Service and Broadcasting is adopted and implemented as soon as possible in accordance with relevant European standards. I, after such a formulation, especially though I know before, can understand why the European Commission and the international community have been so far and how involved in the current, although I do not belong to those who understand the individual provisions of these laws, I am simply not in that field. But what I want to do, which is why I read this, firstly I have a duty as an MP in the Council of Europe to remind you, although I suppose we all had this, and the second one today we are ahead of our first reading and accordingly I want to propose something until the second reading, I don't know whether certain provisions or individual amendments are in line with European standards as they say they are, or whether they are, or whether they are a possible violation of the European Charter or the Convention on Human Rights, etc. But to answer that, we get to another reading. If there is any discrepancy with European standards as the Council of Europe Resolution adopted at the last meeting of the Council of Europe, if this discrepancies to correct this further... I suggest that we give, or put, in the voting procedure of this law, or amendments, as far as they are proposed, I really don't know which they are, and that until the second reading, eventually by referring to these provisions, we make any corrections in the spirit of European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14500	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. The second reading is actually a declaration of amendments. So we can plead today in our first reading and leave a statement on the amendments to that check why I as chairman can accept that there is an argument for what you have said. Come on, Mr. Jović. I was going to say two sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14501	Professor, I think this is on the right track, and the replica would be in it just to keep in mind, my conversation with representatives from the international community, I want solutions like in Switzerland, you're on the wrong path, it's a rich country you can't afford. 57 When I said, and why? So we're poor and we have to suffer in the name of inequality, I say why we can't look up to Europe. You know everything that Europe builds doesn't have to be appropriate for you. You have to have your own way sometimes. It does not always have to be the goal of Europe alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14502	The microphone word requested the chairman, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14503	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, distinguished members of the College, I will not have a big word or a long debate. I think it's my turn to say a few words about these legal decisions. First of all, as far as the procedure is concerned, every time there's no argument about the content, then we withdraw what was who voted. The MPs are here and are responsible for their role in the process and it is up to them to say their word on the laws, regardless of how the Council of Ministers worked, including HDZ ministers. If people here have their views and arguments, they should be killed or not killed. I mean, in terms of not MPs, but I'm saying I think that this principle should be respected here and that we shouldn't waste time around it, because there have been several times the same cases where the Ministers in the Council of Ministers voted in one way, MPs in another way and from other parties, and it wasn't disputed and I don't think it can be for anyone serious in a demographic sense disputed. It's another thing if it's politics or manipulation, but it's being checked by argument here. As for the debate on this law, I really want to say that there are no arguments here to challenge the legitimate right to move this issue by the HDZ Club because it really is a very important vital issue. Not only for one nation, but for the state as a whole and in this context, perhaps all these arguments were not best articulated. But they were in the best interest to contribute to the adoption of one law and to make it through that law, except for the whole of protection and speciality. And I think they're European standards. Now let's see if we've done it. If we did, then we can't criticize anyone, nor the Council of Ministers, nor the OHR, or anyone, but if there are serious reserves, then gentlemen allow it to be legitimately right to try to fix that law. And Mr Filip Andrić's amendment was not a challenge to the law in any serious context except in order for him to contribute to the harmonisation and achievement of the rights and quality of an entire legislative project. Unfortunately, we have a situation, but she wouldn't be talking at all today if it didn't happen again quickly. Here's how long it's been since the Higher Education Act, like we're not all learning anything. Maybe we don't learn either, I'm personally going away, so we all go to the end, we all go to the end, there's no room for maneuvering to see if there's room for that law to fix so we don't use all the instances here and out for one such situation. And this one will not end only in the Constitutional Court, this one will end further, because the requirements are legitimately correspondence with international standards. I assure you 58 deeply, deep down, and we are obliged to ratify the European Convention on Minority Regional Languages. It's one of the obligations. And, gentlemen, when we ratify it, you'll see how a law will pass that contests the possibility of using and broadcasting programs in one of the constituent languages. It doesn't matter to anyone. So we have the strength to discuss it. We don't have today, here we go. And what do we do? We're not gonna fight, I'm not in, maybe I used to go out so bile like this, but what's the question? Then indeed, Mr. Avdić questions whether the Council of Ministers can adopt such legal solutions on two vital laws with legitimacy in such a complex state as Bosnia and Herzegovina. IJaće do it first, maybe not, and I'll be undisciplined at the club and publicly defend the position of my position as president and member of this club to be questioned. Why? At the end of what state are we making here? What laws do we make? Is it an entity or a roof Bosnian Herzegovina? I think this is just one maneuvering space to preserve the status quo that I absolutely don't accept. I am personally expressing myself through this law and through all similar reforms that are trying to give a vision of reform and serious step-up in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the state of economic and social and human position is getting worse every day. It is my relationship to the essence and ambition that through this law, respecting and the efforts that have been made and the position of the international community is without question. Come on gentlemen, these are serious questions. Let's seriously talk if there are objections to the existing state and the media, if they're justified, if the demands are expressed to improve things through a new legal solution and not respect it again, then I think a lot of things will open up in another way. I don't know what a man would say. Here I am trying to work, to make laws, to do everything we can to meet the requirements, but not to let in this process the creation of these conjectures leave someone without identity. I don't think it was, it shouldn't be anybody's goal, I don't want it, and I'm not saying it's a conscious goal. I don't say. But if there is justification here for some requirements and demands, I think we should respect them and I have answered my word to say that today we are stating the principles of first reading and leaving space, let these amendments be checked, is it possible for them to work until second reading and not to slow down the process of passing laws or what has been done so far, and try to fix some things. At the end of the day we've worked too hard, we can continue tomorrow, here's one thought that should go on track to look for a solution, not to converse to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14504	Thank you. Is anyone still answering for a word? Here's the chairman, that's his job. Mrs. Fatima Leho asked for a word. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14505	I'll ask for something. Since only the MPs in this House will be the oldest, I will ask my colleagues to speak when they discuss Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian, and to spare the language of hatred from this assembly and thank you for having chaired you now in an appropriate way on this subject that irritates all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Me and, I find it very difficult, let's say on federal television, every time any commentator from Mostar, or speaker, comes forward, there's not a single Bošnjak. I wish there was at least one. You know, and that would be good, you know, when we talk about all of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thank Bog that the Constitutional Court's ruling is like this, as Mr. Jović said all three languages should be all in BiH institutions and institutions. So, we all should, since we're created on this earth and under this here sun and under this vault, we all need to have our place and that no one is bothered and no one has to bother, but we have to guard our hate language, because I really have a great deal of trouble here, here, so please as colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14506	Well, obviously, a colleague doesn't watch TV. I invite you tonight to look at the TV, where the Hrvat from Mostar will not see, there you will see the installers and cameramen in Široki Brijeg, in Posuje, in the nogoment stadiums and up to one of the sports meeting leaders of any information, a report coming from the sports field that is Bošnjak, and therefore I can't figure out what this is, I'm eating huge fellow Leho, I'm just looking for equality, so help me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14507	Thank you, but let's accept an invitation to discuss these issues constructively and with respect. I'm closing the debate. I thank all those who participated and Mr. Dokić the minister. My proposal, since it's late tonight and we have a large number of amendments, to make a statement about the law in the first reading and move on to work or to continue tomorrow's work, as agreed. I ask the MPs to declare on the proposal for a law on the BiH Public Television System in the first reading and to vote with the vote. I find that with 31 votes for, 6 against, 1 co-administered and enough entity majority, the proposal for a law on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH was adopted, in the first reading. I thank the MPs, and I move on to point 23. 60 Ad.23. The proposal for a Law on Public TV Service So, the same introduction, the data as for the previous law, with the competent commission adopting 20 amendments in this law, and in the plenary phase of one amendment were submitted by Mr Filip Andrić and Mrs Sead Palavrić, who want to defend themselves again at the plenary debate, with the fact that, whether amendments have arrived or need to plead. From Mr. Andrić, he arrived in business, and for Mrs. Palavrić, we said that the conclusion of the House would determine the fate of these amendments. But here's the information on the amendments and the state of affairs regarding the commission's report on this bill. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Can we consider that through this first debate, we have ended the discussion of the second law? Mr. Andrić, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14508	Well, I just wanted to say, I think we've already exhausted the discussion of principles and principles through this previous debate, and when we're in the second reading, then, of course, I'll take my word for it and continue to explain the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14509	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrić. I think it's a constructive proposal. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement by voting on the proposal for a law on the Public Television Service of BiH, in the first reading. Vote now. I agree that with 29 votes in favour of, 6 against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the proposal for a law on the Public Television Service of BiH was adopted in the first reading. We're moving on, I think we can finish this tonight, if that's okay with you. Thank you very much. Ad.24. The proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH, in the first reading, as you know, we tasked the competent commission to take a look at the new aspects set out in the debate in accordance with Article 95(3) of the law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission held a session yesterday. I believe you have received a new report from the Commission. The Commission adopted two amendments after the review, as you saw in the report. I think the conditions for this bill to be adopted today have been met, but I am opening a debate in my first reading. Is there any debate, except since the Constitutional and Legal Commission held a session yesterday, we have amendments to the Commission's report on Ivo Mire Jović. That's what we'll determine in the amendment phase. Now I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I'm closing the debate. I would suggest that the House declares the proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH in the first reading. 61 Please vote now. With 31 votes for, 2 against, 3 abstentions, the proposal for a law on the registration of business entities in BiH was adopted in the first reading. So we have two amendments. Now we need to determine whether we will go to another reading today. Please let us vote if we will plead in another reading. I'm asking the House to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now. With 33 votes to, without votes against, 3 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to declare this bill in a second reading. In the second reading, we have two amendments, Mr Ivo Mire Jović, which calls for Article 94(1). The Rules of Procedure also submit amendments challenging the amendments of Momčilo Novaković, adopted by the relevant commission yesterday. So, the amendment and Mr. Jović, it says. The amendment and in the report of the commission shall be deleted. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Jović. I'm not arguing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14510	Well, now we're at the next point, so now I'm gonna defend the Council of Ministers and I can do it, so I can do it about success. Strangely, something is happening with this law, and again, as I was just saying about those points, these strange things, strange winds come from people, who here should solve the issue of the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to help us solve, that Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as possible, and in an economic, economic sense, makes it a step so necessary to move forward. Maybe I, as an uneconomyist in terms of the practical part, wouldn't be making an amendment to this nature, and mostly I shouldn't be so bold as to stand up and defend that I'm not provoked. So these amendments of mine are also the result of an unprincipled conduct by the international community. This time the embassies of Great Britain, OHR and one... thank you very much. Look, gentlemen, I'm sorry I'm not limited to time right now, but I'm not going to bother you very much, but it's very interesting. So says the U.K. Embassy. It only happens this way, as proposed by the law, in that form, which was not adopted by the Council of Ministers. So, those I called OHR, the World Bank and the UK Embassy are opposed to the solutions offered by the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers has made only such a small step, which is quite normal, natural, the desire that at BiH level there are registered entities in entities, and that is one article, that if it should represent the country there is in it... and you know this great man and who sends us this sentence, therefore I call him, in this way alone, it is, if it is abolished that there is no register at BiH level, it is only in entities, that BiH can, through the entity, be sure that they will have a system of registration of business entities, which will give domestic and foreign investors the trust needed to invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I will stand in that sentence to explain it. 62 So, Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not asked anything, but entities, will be able to interpret and enable those from the white world to invest here in BiH, and the man who invested the money sees that she is not asking questions. It's going to be a good guarantee, and then it's going to go on, and it's going to help create, look at this miracle, this unique economic space. A, shall not have a register at the level of the State of business entities, or economic operators. It's, in accordance with European views, with pearls like we're getting, because this is against Evorpa, the civilization of man. And the same thing, or the likes of which we get from OHR, well, the honourable representative, the representative, however appreciated, in any case, that I don't leave it out and it's not that, it's purely human, I really don't think, I didn't mean to offend, and I don't want to offend, she said that, however, it's a matter of technical problems. But what we offer is better. They are technical problems but it is better, so please accept, let it be at entity level, and behold, wonders will be discussed by this parliament, which is called the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, there will be solutions for BiH, and BiH will neither be seen nor congratulated with the OHR, which so well and boldly wrote to us in Article 8(3). Here's what they're trying to erase, and I need to read it, it's not too much. The BiH Ministry of Justice will keep the main book referred to in this law in electronic form in paragraph 6. The entity's justice ministries and the Brcko District's legislative commission are required to ensure technical correctness and the current supply of electronic data from the main book. The law only wants it to work and the computer when they want, I have to interpret the professors, how well I listen to you, I've never told you a word. Be patient. I want an honest, equal and future view of the future. So this is where they say the computer can be broken. That's what OHR gentlemen are looking for and that's a technical problem. It's not a technical problem in the law, but it's literally a technical problem, I see it that way, and I don't want to have technical problems in the law, so I've given an amendment and a similar one, or so is this one. And, imagine, unnecessary, but really unnecessary, or touching entities, only that the copy is available, which would be used at BiH level. He can't do that either. Well, why, I don't know that. So I wonder what I'd do on that committee of solutions like this. You left me. Well, it's similar with the World Bank, where, normally, it's known as this, you're not going to get $25 million if you don't adopt this right away, but without these amendments. So here today, as a parliamentary majority, that's what bothers me, we've advocated these previous two points, to respect the Council of Ministers' proposal. Now those in the white world say we don't respect it. I just want to say this. The council adopted the bill, I call on parliamentarians, as a majority in Parliament, to vote in confidence through this law to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14511	Does anyone else want one? Mr. Ćeman. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14512	My colleagues and colleagues, the committee's report, you've been re-reviewed. I am not speaking as the rapporteur of the Commission, because, I think, the report is clear and who read more carefully, it could have been that the results of the vote at this stage or that stage were very clear illustration, as much as there was in the commission, or there was a dilemma about what we were talking about. I've called as an emissary to say on this subject a few things. First, I will support the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, i.e. to adopt the law without these amendments, i.e. by, as the Commission has, however, established most of the votes. And why do I feel the need to say this now? I would little use one sentence from my colleague Jović and I remember the time, and for a long time in the BiH Parliament, I was one of the few or distinct minorities, who cried out for it, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was passing laws. At the time, one politician made a list of a hundred and a few laws, so because of the political ambience in which it was then lived and worked, he had to reduce it to ten and it was an undertaking for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to adopt ten laws. Given this experience and what we are faced with today, thank Bog a lot of laws, I have simply personally concluded that it is good, although I am reluctant to pass the law without these amendments, fellow Jović, because it is shown that, in a year or two, we will probably change this law and enter these provisions again, but the experiences say that, of course, we will come to the right solutions. Whoever remembers, and you don't have to remember, of course, before we talked about this law at this session, I just supported and spoke in favour of these solutions. I see, it doesn't look mature. I don't understand why, either, but I really felt for a reason a great commitment, or the need to say, I will support this law as proposed by the Constitutional Commission, because I am convinced that those who were not for these solutions that we are talking about in a year, possibly two of these solutions will be very affirmatively stated. So we'll have registers at the level of the BiH state. For now, it's better this way than never, because in truth, this law lays down some common standards on registration in both entities. That's why the tooth needs to be supported. And, if it can be better, it can certainly be and I'm glad to hear this story from my colleague Jović, I hope that others will hear it, so we will fix this law in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14513	Thank you very much. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the raps. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14514	Well, I rarely answer. I mean, I see where this is going. I'm withdrawing the amendments. But, please, let him be there finely written down Jović was right this time. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14515	Well, you can't be right. You pulled the amendments, but there you go. Now you've disappointed the audience. I thought I'd be an audience today about this. Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Jović. The amendments are, please, since we have no amendments, and we have declared that we will plead in the second reading. I ask the home to declare the proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH and in a second reading. Vote now. With 29 votes in favour, without votes against, 6 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives passed a proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH and in a second reading. Thank you to all the MPs. We're moving on to the 25th point. Ad.25. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH in first reading, MP Nikola Špirić, Kolega Špirić, submitted the bill 10.5. At the 38th session, we established procedure by 104. We have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is also relevant for this report and has delivered 5.7 to us. As you have seen from the apparition, no amendments have been tabled on the bill. Most of the votes were passed by the Commission. There are no amendments in the plenary phase, I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I propose, please, that the House declare itself on the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Citizenship Act, the proposer of Mr Nikola Špirić in his first reading. Please vote now. So, it has a general majority, not from the Federation of BiH entity. I suggest we agree, this is a good bill. There aren't three days, we're moving on, because I'm holding on to what Šefik is always suggesting to me. We're going to vote on entities. I'm asking the Federation to make a statement to the MPs. Who's against it? Vote now. Nine votes against, so he went to the Federation. He had a majority in the RS entity. Everyone understood Mrs. Palavrić very well. I didn't formulate anything, I acted on the Rules of Procedure, and you should follow the Rules of Procedure as well. And if you're expressing suspicion, don't just accuse me in the paper that someone wants to rob someone with votes. 65 I repeat the vote. They're voting out of the Federation that they're against. Please vote now. Opposite 14. I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH, Mr Nikola Špirić, in the first reading. Seada, from the entity and everything is clear please. I ask the House to make a statement, if we will accept today to enter into a plea in the second reading of this law in a way that is not fair to any amendments. Vote now. He's got most of it for a second reading. No entity. We'll apply the same procedure. Since there was no entity majority from the Federation, I ask that the representatives of the Federation declare who is against it. Do we have the consent to go to another reading? I'm asking the Federation's representatives to state who's against going to another reading. Now they're voting against it. So we're going to the second reading, there's no two-thirds of the Federation of BiH entity. I ask the House of Representatives to declare on the proposal for a law supplementing BiH's law on migration, MP Nikola Špirić's proposal and in a second reading. Please vote now. Well, I can see it didn't go through, but one interesting situation with the political aspect. I find, therefore, that the law did not pass in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're moving to the 26th agenda. Ad.26. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Election Law, Proposer, MP Muhamed Moranjkić, with the notice of the Constitutional and Legal Commission I will remind you, Mr Moranjkić delivered this proposal to us on 28.5. with a request for procedure 104. We approved that procedure at the 39th session. It was constitutionally legal. She's the one who delivered the report to us 21.7. As you saw from the report, the Commission did not support the principles. We have this situation, therefore, unless the commission supports the principles, that the House should be made aware of the report of the committee in question. If the commission's report is adopted, the bill is considered rejected. If the House does not accept the report of the committee in question, the House will ask it to draw up a new report, based on new guidelines, established by the House and within the time limit set by the House. Mr. Moranjkić. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14516	... later on to this Parliament, which is not my feature, but about that. We can't, however, say just two or three sentences, and they say the following. The aim of the bill is crystal clear as the sun and clear. The enforceability of this law is extremely simple and extremely cheap. A great benefit to this country and to this people. The Commission's explanation doesn't stand. Well, I even think that there are some arguments in the group of demagogy, I wouldn't particularly explain them, maybe it's a harsh word, but I don't think the other one stands. You know who this doesn't answer to and why it's voted this way on this committee and why this is how this law is handled. I wouldn't want any further comments, but I'd like to ask for a simple vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14517	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. We are now pleading on the commission's report, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, on the proposal for a law amending the BiH Election Law, the pedicator of Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić's representative. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the Commission's report. Vote now. With 26 votes in favour of, 5 against, 1 abstention and enough entity majority, I find that the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, which did not support the principles in its report, and, in accordance with the conclusion adopted by this House, finds this bill rejected. I thank you all. We're moving to agenda 27. Ad.27. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, with the Commission's report on Foreign Trade and Customs, I would remind you that Mr. Novaković delivered this proposal on October 1, 2003. The proposed law was in regular procedure, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs was in charge. Her report came to us on 15.4. And here we have a situation that the committee in question did not accept the bill. We have the same procedure as at the previous point. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the Commission's report on foreign trade and customs, advantaged for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. So, we are pleading on the Commission's report. I'm asking the House to plead. 67 Vote now So, the Commission's report has a general majority, has no ethnicity. He's going on a date. Can we agree? As you can see, the College is consistent, there is no consensus again. We're going to vote on entities. Since the number of representatives from the Federation was sufficient, I ask the RS deputies to vote against this Commission report? Vote now. So I'm saying that RS has 11 votes against it. So the report wasn't adopted. We're determining to the competent commission that on the basis of the new guidelines and within the time limit that we're setting out today, and since they're going to rest, I think we should be the first next session of the House to draw up this report. Is this okay? The guidelines are such that the bill passes. Okay. Thank you. Moving to the 28th point, that's Ad.28. Proposed pardon law, 2.7 was submitted in the first reading of the bill. At the last session, we accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for Procedure of 104. The relevant Constitutional and ustavno-pravni. She's the one who delivered the report to us on 26th. We included this law in the agenda because of the urgency, since we received information that it was adopted by consensus in the commission and that there were no objections to the amendments adopted. The committee responsible submitted the report. As you've seen, the commission has adopted four amendments. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14518	I will support this law in both the first and every reading, but I have not received a report. I'd like to have it. So I don't know who I can ask the report if I didn't get it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14519	I ask Mr Zorić's representative to respect the fact that we have reached a decision at the enlarged college and that we have said that the report will be divided today, given that it was completed yesterday. He's on his way. 68 I would like to make a statement, the conclusion that Mr. Zorić is given an urgent report. I'm putting in motion a bill of pardon for a statement in the first reading. Well, I can laugh, too, yeah. Okay. I thank you for your understanding. I ask the House of Representatives to plead on the proposal of this law in the first reading. Vote now. So with 35 votes, no votes against and 1 abstentioned and enough entity majority, we've accepted the bill of pardon in the first reading. Given the result of this vote, I suggest that the House declare whether or not we will go to another reading. Please vote now. 31 votes for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Enough entity majority. We're going to make a statement about this law and in the second reading. I ask the House to make a statement on the Proposal of the Law on Compassionation and in the second reading. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has adopted the draft law on pardon and in the second reading. Thank you. Crossing to the 29th point, that's Ad.29. An investigation committee report on SFOR's action at the Palaces you received a report. The Commission report as you have seen suggests certain recommendations and asks this home to support them. I'm opening a debate on a report from the Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Jović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14520	While others are probably also preparing, I would like to try to catch a little bit of time, but indeed what I feel like as a man and as a representative to whom an important role has been given, and I would like to say that on 23 April when we received the task, when the Commission was founded, Mr Ibrahim Đedović, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and I immediately went to work and we contacted all the relevant factors that are seen from this report. We have come to some knowledge that we have put on paper and why not stress unanimously that this is our joint reflection on this problem, and you will see this report that we have been communicating with SFOR, the Prosecutor's Office of Republika Srpska, the Prosecutor's Office of Serbian Sarajevo, and then with the Serbian Orthodox Church, health institutions, the Clinical Hospital in Tuzla, the VMA in Belgrade, the families of the victims. 69 Based on all of this, we have not questioned at any moment the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution, and we have mostly received data that carried the "official secret" title and "confidential", we have not questioned the disclosure of any facts that were available to us, so in that sense, perhaps the most important thing that I have reported is to invite all those who are interested in seeing everything we have received, they have the opportunity, because our valuable secretary of this commission, I want and I want to especially commend her for her work, Mrs. Dragica has been constantly at hand, although it is her obligation, but you must admit that we are not used to doing so in the evening and in the morning, because such work has been ours and visits etc. has always been handy to make either the minutes, or from meetings, or memos, etc. Here as a man I want to say, we live in a country where we're dealing with our internal problems, and mostly a war conflict that, thank God, we've got an international tutor. That international tutor is acting just like an elephant in a glass shop. Probably that the citizens of this country, listen, to give me a round of applause. But I also want to say, it's good that they're here, it's just not good to do that. So our report in the recommendations went that way, not touching the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution, but recommending those who would have to, because they came here to help build modern and modern Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country in which the right to property is respected, the right to freedom of faith, the right to live. Especially if it is known that the international forces were with the camera in this house a few days ago, they recorded every detail. It's impossible a sentence that we've had since SFOR, he says, it's sent about to put it under my tongue simply, it's business simple SFOR has been doing its job and it's a secret what he's done. But he couldn't help saying that in such shops and innocents they got hurt. Well, at least I congratulate you so much for being honest, but I'm sorry that people didn't deserve the doctor's hasty intervention right away, when they realized, and I believe deep down they had to understand their mistake that innocent people had beaten up, then they took them to Tuzla by helicopter in comatose condition, and two hospitals two or three miles here. I'm not a doctor, but I know from life practice it wasn't a good move, people in helicopters in such a state, unconscious drive, and then leave them in the hallway of the hospital as "N.N."and then the family in the afternoon only finds out where their family members died, where they are being treated, whether they are being treated, whether they are alive, etc. I think it's inhumane and humanely inadmissible. And these recommendations went in that sense and in this direction to bring this home closer together to help, and so we also came up with these suggestions and recommendations in which we did not go to the end or act in a court way, to be judges, nor did we go to the end to express any kind of immunity, but to suffer, moderately, measuredly, honestly and justly. I think it can be read from our report, and if we understand it that way, I'm sorry it's too late, I'd be talking about this for a long time, but maybe it's better if I do do it a little bit, although for a long and long time, we should talk about this to get to the ears, to those who decide on these moves to do their job, but by keeping in mind, I said the integrity of property, man and his life, etc. 70 can't explode on the ground floor, and the man upstairs gets hurt. And that's what gave me and gave me the strength to immediately identify myself in the beginning in which direction this investigative commission should go. So the inputs were incorrect and we finally determined them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14521	Ms. Ljiljana Milićević, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14522	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues, I feel the need to briefly address you as a member of this committee in which the three of us worked together with the secretary and managed to complete this, hoping that we'd come to an understanding, I thank the first College, the Expansive College, for coming to an understanding, for this to be on the agenda, because we felt that too much time had passed and that it was our turn to do this before the annual holidays. After speech by esteemed counterpart Jović, there is little to be added and taken away. So I want to thank all the institutions with which we have contacted from the Ministry of Security to those most, come from the public security stations, for the answers we have received from everyone, the materials that have been delivered to us. And I want to ask all of you to try to read this, if something is not clear, what my colleague Jović said, since the mass of this is "strictly confidential" to read and to look at all of this in the light of what is happening to us today, here with some laws, which has been happening to us in recent years. I mean, for me, this house showed the size when we had this one committee that we sat in together and as people sat down and saw what we or some of us were doing and said this wasn't good, it was wrong. And the other day, it was honest with me that she was happy with you when I saw that the court had also reached some sort of verdict that confirmed what we as one commission in which we were supposed to be, in fact, appraised. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that this is how we were a committee called truth-finding. I'm one of those people that there's only one truth in which I think one. We can try to look at her differently, serve her, but one thing's true. I think that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by accepting this report, is making another big step that can show that we are mature and capable enough to look at, accept the truth, even if it was not beautiful, that we are mature enough people and say it is not good. Can we make it better? But I think the first step on our path to taking over all possible powers, just in considering the acceptance of the truth and in this way in fact, means by accepting a report like this, we're going to show that we're mature enough to deal with things. I mean, again, I'm not getting into the goals that were motivated, but I can't accept that this goal justifies every means. That's the problem here. Let everyone do their job, and I pray you and I say that in the context of this, that as a mature, responsible people who are first responsible for the citizens who chose us to condemn 71 of us to be victims and say that to innocent victims. And those innocents have names, names. So this would be on the way if innocent people didn't get hurt, to get killed as little as possible, in as few as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14523	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14524	I'm not going to talk about this case at all, of course, because a lot of things have been said about this case. I won't even talk about what they are, commenting on what my colleagues in the Commission said, because I think they really, really took the job we've given here seriously. I just got up to, since the SDS Club was a proposal for the formation of this commission, to thank the Commission that they really succeeded what rarely the commissions did when we formed them this way, which is to submit a report to which all the members of the Commission were gathered. So it's usually not like that with us. That's why I think we've made a serious report, that they've managed to make a report that doesn't really contain anything else in it that makes someone against it. No less, which would make one of the members of the Commission against. For that reason, I thank this commission as a proposing means that this is done, and I think the work they've done must be worth the effort. I believe that this report will also have its place in everything that we have spoken today and these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14525	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14526	Here is only briefly, on behalf of the SNSD Club, I would like to thank the Commission for its good work. Among other things, as a man and as a medic, I would also like to thank the Tuzla Clinical Centre, as well as the VMA in Belgrade, who have helped even discuss this report. At the meeting, the SNSD proposed a resolution and was also in favour of forming a commission. I believe that this resolution was acted urgently at the time, and this parliament was condemned to the event and perhaps stronger words than it was in this commission's report to the Commission on the event. I would recommend to the Commission, and also to this home, that the recommendations in point 3 be made that the House finds that, in a particular case, there is no doubt that the use of unmeasured force has occurred. This is a very important word to the use of force by SFOR members. We've qualified that 72 in a much harder resolution. I think that both these events and the Commission's certificate of work have qualified it harder and it was, in fact, a really unmeasured force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14527	Thank you very much. No more reports. Mrs. Palavrić. You didn't press Mrs. Palavrić. Then you pressed the wrong button, Mrs. Palavrić, but no matter what, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14528	Thank you very much. Let me make a mistake. I'm not wrong, I pressed right. So, given that this really is a serious thing, we need to be serious, even if we're tired. I think that the Commission has done a really good job and in the findings, in fact, the recommendations when it is said that this action has resulted in a serious injury to innocent people, I don't think anyone should get hurt and at least an innocent person. So people who are not innocent must not get hurt without reason. They have clearly prescribed conditions when a person can be injured and the force can be applied. What I want, what I want to draw attention to, is the end of the third recommendation when it is proposed that the House proposes to the competent institutions of the international community to review the role of SFOR, or EUFOR, which will replace the existing forces in the section that amnestises the responsibility of even the perpetrators of criminal offences. Under the Dayton Agreement, they are not amnesty by responsibility. They should, they can't answer in our country, but they should respond in their country as if they've committed a crime, or overstepped forces in their country. So what I think is necessary is that, that countries whose followers of these events have to find out what the members of their armed forces did and just so, fighting terrorism, trying to arrest war crimes indictees, can't be an excuse for anyone to violate human rights. And in that sense, I would only correct this last position that, again, I underline - they are not amnesty, but in order not to avoid punishment I suggest that their country, I suppose, is aware of who the perpetrators are, that their countries are informed and that what we signed in Dayton applies to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14529	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. No more. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14530	Mr. Chairman, since this is actually a good proposal, I think it would be a good idea, actually, if we adopt this report so as to refer it to those countries that are members of NATO, SFOR, who participated there. There's everything in those papers from which countries they were human. It's not a problem, to send parliaments to those countries. Because that's where the Democrats are sitting to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14531	Thank you very much. No more reports. It's a closed debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the Report of the Research Commission on the determination of truth in connection with SFOR's action at the Palace, with this conclusion now proposed by Mrs Palavrić. Please vote now. 30 votes for, without votes against, five abstentions, enough ethnic alliance. An investigative committee report on the determination of the truth of the action, related to SFOR's return to the Palace, has been accepted. I thank the MPs and also as chairman of the members of this investigation committee for quality and teamwork. We're going to the 30th point, that's A.30. The proposal for a project to determine the cost of donor funds at the 31st session of Dom adopted a provisional report by the investigation committee that Dom formed. You have received a proposal for a project that this investigative committee has prepared in cooperation with the representatives of the Council of Ministers and I think that we can speak out today about this project in order to enable a definitive rounding of what we have determined in the conclusion of this House. Is there a need for a debate? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14532	I thank the chairman. It seems to me that he deserves attention so we can take a little stand over the project proposal for a number of reasons. First, at the request of a certain group of MPs, we formed an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14533	I'm asking for a little more patience. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14534	So an investigation committee that suggested that one project be made. This Parliament has accepted that conclusion, but what has come to pass, or what is before us, raises suspicion. I'm not sure, first of all, that the House of Representatives can accept something that is in the hands of the executive authorities, because here we have a concrete project proposal. Secondly, I would like to refer you to the rules or procedures that the Parliamentary Assembly adopts between the remaining when it comes to spending public funds. Here is a proposal of 299,300 thousand KM, so close to 300,000 KM, it's about a project that works by procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14535	I'm sorry, it hurt Mr. Zorić. I had to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14536	It is a project that requires a public invitation to an offer for the project in accordance with the procedure. I didn't see in this report anywhere that there was a public call, and I don't even know who the author of this project is, because I don't believe that the Investigative Commission has actually made a proposal for a project. I happen to know this matter, these are the tasks that research institutions do, that is, commercial institutions that do business like this under a commercial arrangement. So, first of all, I doubt that this Parliament can at all approve a special project specifically indicating the figure, secondly I doubt that this Parliament can approve a project beyond any procedure, not at all delay the need to do the project. And when it comes to the offer that's ahead of us, if you've opened the debate, I want to point out a few things that can be useful in the next steps in the process towards the project. So, I'm not here to discuss the proposal for a project that is ahead of us and that came through the commission, although I don't know who the author is. First, here in this proposal, or in these papers,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14537	I'm asking the MPs really for a little more patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14538	Here, in this proposal for a paper or project ahead of us, it says that the commission in principle defined all the material and financial donations it received from BiH as the subject of the survey. So I ask the question of what about the immaterial donations, i.e. how they can be quantified, and I would like to remind you that it is all about the various consulting services that someone is paying, which are being provided, and that is, given as a donation to BiH. 75 further, I want to point out one possible discrepancy in terms. The international community treats donors, which we repay as a credit arrangement. So here in this proposal, it is not precisely seen whether this distinction will be done in the spirit of terminology that is common at least when the question of the international community or in the spirit of some of our terminology. On page 4 here says that the Commission has unanimously taken the view that it is necessary to do a project to realise the establishment of donor spending. In my opinion, let's say that the commission, possibly according to the College or the Council of Ministers, should have sent an initiative to call for an offer for the project. This is the procedure especially when the issue of spending public funds, of course with one question expressed of 300,000 KM. I'll tell you that I didn't, that I think the institute of my university where I'm employed would offer this kind of project for half the money. Furthermore, I am not in favour of, in the description of this project, people who receive salaries for work that they do, and whose job this is, obtain an allowance from the budget based on the project. Furthermore, here it says, with the naturally expressed time-time reserve, I don't know that there is any other timing other than time-time, here in a statement on the problem or definition of research subjects is talking about financial donations, material donations, again missing immaterial donations, etc. Because of this, I am expressing a reserve according to this, the first procedure of offering the project and secondly, according to the easy spending of 300 000 KM funds for something that we would possibly get a response to only 20% of the donor funds spent in Bosnia or in BiH. Why do I say 20%? Here is often mentioned OHR, ESFOR etc., so ask yourself whether OHR and ESFOR are funding from donor funds. We're not a NATO member to go for automation. The involvement of ESFOR soldiers here, someone's paying. It also pays one and the role, respectively, of OHR and all those powerful officials who can also be treated as donations. And I'm asking you, can this investigation committee or some project give us an answer, how many donor funds have entered here or spent on BiH. If we are going to get a 20 per cent response from the total donor funds, I do not think this Parliament should allow itself, especially in the wrong procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14539	I thank Azra Hadžiahmetović. You see, we still, Mr. Bešlagić. We need to determine ourselves because we realize our own conclusions. Now let's see how. And forgive me, Mr. Bešlagić, my responsibility means that Mr. Hazim Felić has been announced before. Don't be mad. Gopodin Felić. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14540	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will since the President of the Investigation Commission is absent, he asked me to address this point of the agenda. I'll Kazaću on behalf of the commission and something on my own behalf. In fact, you know that the House of Representatives has formed this committee in its conclusion. The Commission has been working to respond to the task set out in this House of Representatives, its conclusion. In fact, Mrs Hadžiahmetović said certain dilemmas from the expert aspect, indeed and the members of the commission had a lot of dilemmas to which we also didn't know how to give an adequate answer, and for this reason we decided to do this kind of project, we offer the House to decide whether to accept or refuse, so our work as members of the commission would be completed. So, what's this about? With all these dilemmas presented by Mrs Hadžiahmetović, I can order some more. First of all, it's two years or so this project would be working with a questionnaire as to what the final outcome would be. The second thing, if the assumption was that 300,000 marks would be spent on these purposes, although not the final figure and the third thing that matters, this project would be worked on either continuously or occasionally by 7 to 8 people. For this reason, the project as a project and ideas drawn in it comes out of the framework of the mandate of the committee that was formed and for this reason we have decided to address the House, to tell the House in its conclusion whether we accept, or whether we will move on or stop at this. I was really obliged and asked by Mr Gligorić, as chairman of the commission, to say this and here I am taking the opportunity to present it on my own behalf and on behalf of the commission. Of course, other members of the commission are present, and if they have the need to report, let this one, supplement what I may not have said. So, I can really just say that the secretary of the commission worked on this project and to respond to Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, so the secretary of the commission worked on this project together with the president and with consultations with his deputy. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14541	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14542	...exposures I saw this project, I said thank Bog someone did something to offer because we formed the commission because of all the stories that so many and so many billions have entered BiH, there is no telling where it is or what it is. 77 Therefore, this project was not a project that was now....to separate the money. I think this is what I'd say is the project with the faults it certainly has, which should be the Council of Ministers telling us if this project is going to go in and out of the way, with the repairs and everything that's been done, or if it's going to say it doesn't have the money and we're going to take this thing off this committee. The Commission cannot make any report even 20% accurate if it has no data. So, I've summed up that this project is good, under alleged signs with all the faults that can be reported on the other hand, that we need these data. Whether it's expensive or not, I can't do it right now, but the most expensive story is how much money has gone into BiH, that it's someone's been through, and it's from people sitting here for high money. I can't take it anymore. So, I think the commission has found the only way out, she's got the task of making a report on, finding out that she's not able to, and she's offered the project, and I think the House of Representatives should be able to guide this project to the Council of Ministers and say, here's what we can't do, without this, if you can gather data on these elements, we're able to make an analysis, if not, I think that this commission has done this job but without the data of that, it's another thing that someone's just going to give 20% and another dilemma, whether we're going to take into the calculations and donations that have taken away the UmPROFOR, OHR, UNHCR, etc. We won't take that for sure. It's constant data and everything else, but at least what's said to have entered the institutions, and I agree that you should enter... advisors who have great donations for those purposes. So, the essential thing, I suggest here is that when we refer such a project to the Council of Ministers, let it be determined according to this, and this commission will continue to work at the moment if we get the data, if not, I think we better not improvise than improvise and get nothing compared to what we requested. I think we've had a huge demand for this commission, and I'm glad this commission came out with this proposal to say, if that's what we're going to cost. If we're gonna get everything, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14543	Thank you, Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Križanović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14544	I must say that when this committee was formed, fully aware of what the commission could do, we were against forming this commission. I have to say, now I see how much we've been right, just given the fact that the commission can do, realistically what some parliamentary commission can do at all. So that means informing the previous and just before we had one report and this commission shows actually all the difference in individual proposals here. So when there's only political and no other reason behind any proposal, then these suggestions look like this now. Now the commission has come to the conclusion that she can't do it because she can't, of course she can't. Whoever suggested this commission should say how to proceed. The way he sees it, I guess someone when he proposed to that commission before he came up with the way she'd work. Or it's not, most likely not, but it should have had another political dimension. I guess this one, the one that's here right now, the commission can't do it. So, we 78 are in position that the commission has to say whether or not it can do it. If he can't do it, then there's no need to go towards any other authority and so we'll be against any proposal to give any, ask the Council of Ministers for any participation and not just the Council of Ministers but any other authority to help the commission do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14545	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Excuse me, Mr. Križanović. You'll get a good word. I announced Mr. Križanović before you, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14546	I think about this project proposal we've begun to unnecessarily deplete things. A fundamental question is once again assumed before this House, whether BiH needs information, knowing how much donor funds have entered BiH and how they have been spent. Not only for the purpose of determining possible embezzlements of spending, but simply where these funds went, to talk to an international community, which is very often said, you have wasted the assistance of the international community, you are developing poorly, etc. That we can lead a certain policy of BiH's development, ultimately and according to how much someone has received, some area has received donor funding, how much less is someone else, etc. It is clear that the commission formed cannot address this problem with these capacities. And don't compare it to the commission that just gave her report. So be assured that this three-member committee of ours who was investigating this case, with the Palace, has also made some expenses, only they are small, should not have been particularly expressive. Or let's just say that a call or a visit to this military academy called the VMA Medical Academy in Belgrade was accepted, and that would be the cost. People wouldn't pay it out of their pocket. It's a huge number of information that needs to be collected, from a lot of people who were users of this, and I need to say it in a very nice way in one information system to put it in order to have data on this permanently. That's what it costs. There's been an assessment here. We can go to tenders or not go, it's the commission's assessment that we shouldn't go to tenders, do it with our own forces in Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Please, I don't think we should be politicizing this. It is clear to everyone that this commission cannot do the job without cost, that it needs experts, that people who are going to work all the time, collect data from the field for a very large number of subjects, and if it is estimated to be the cost, then only the commission is asking to say that we can't work any further. It's a condition that we could work, so we could finish our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14547	Seada Palavrić 79
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14548	I thank you, in addition to everything Professor Hadžiahmetović and Mr. Felić said, I must also add that I am convinced that even if it is possible to realize that we can take this project, to give these funds, we can never get the information we want. Simply because if you remember, last year we know well, everyone said that about five billion entered BiH, and then suddenly in September they started talking about 17 billion. So, what Professor Hadžiahmetović is talking about, they included all international organisations, it seems to me to me both governmental and non-governmental and ESFOR and AIFOR and UMPROFOR etc. And you'll never get that kind of information. You won't get the information from the donor either because when Kuk came to BiH in time and said that donations were not purposefully spent, that there was corruption, that she was corrupt, that whoever was asked by foreigners, foreign donors, if your funds were missing, no one was missing. No one's doing it. Therefore, I think that continuing to deal with, dealing with this issue, the Council of Ministers would be a waste and money, especially time. And I think the Council of Ministers has far, far-reaching things that can be realized and that we need from continuing to do these things. So this money would be smarter to invest in poverty reduction, not to say a thousand other things, not in making any strategies but concrete examples. So I suggest we not accept this proposal and finally conclude the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14549	Based on what we're going to conclude. Thank you, Mrs. Miličević, the replica of Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14550	I ask then that we say that the commission is unable to do the job and that we take the commission off the job that was given to her and let it be or that we stop saying that someone else got the money and we didn't spend it. I mean, watch out for something my proposal was to send this to the Council of Ministers and let the Council of Ministers say, we have, we don't have and we get a deal and we end up with our commission. This is a disaster if we run away from even getting 20%. If I know it's 20% more than five, so it's 100%, so I don't know anything, this is how 17 billion got into BiH. Is that 100% or 20%? At least to get a number the way it is, because everyone lies to us and we're all thieves, and that's what we here who sit in Parliament allow ourselves to do. I mean it, the commission did the best possible way for a project to be assessed now whether or not it can go. If he can't go, he won't go, if he can go. And second, I'd like to tell Mr. Novaković. Well, if you weren't up for that project, right now I have to express myself politically for the first time, you're afraid now that you spent that money. I'm not afraid of that. Pure as the sun. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14551	All right, Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14552	When we received this report here was quoted today as the resolution monitoring this team that worked, the Council of Europe, preparing for the June session, we members of the delegation took a reading of the predicate of that report and we met with a 5.6 figure now don't hold my word, in that report billions. Do you believe that, without a word, we have accepted the amendment that we have in advance meant, which reads the truth for the sake of it, that most of these funds were related to the financing of the international community present in BiH. It was accepted momentarily, and so it was, footnote, and with that star, it means that they themselves accepted that reserve, and in the rest of it you see, we by one if we wanted to close the circle, we need to know who it was, who it was that donated. Well, then next, who should have been the first hand, then the user the ultimate. So all we can do is have information about what came here, and then we could build a new project that was sent, so somewhere along the way it might have gotten lost. If you'd like to know everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14553	Mr. Križanović, Novaković, Hadžiahmetović. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14554	I'll just have two sentences. I'm serious about saying this as a member of this committee, that we're very aware of the weight and complexity of the task and that we're in very serious...and the truth is, I mean, this commission is ready, that it's not incapable of doing this. Ready and able to do this, do it the way we suggested. And secondly, I am deeply convinced that BiH is in the interest that after 10 years of donations, here is 9 and something, finally knowing what she received, how much she received and from whom she received. And that in conversations and with the international community we act as serious people and that we can't receive information from 5 to 17 billion and keep it quiet, because we can't, we don't have any information. We can either accept each other or dispute both without any arguments. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14555	Thank you. Mr. Novaković. Let's focus, please, on realising the conclusion of home. We formed this commission, no one forced us to. So we gave her homework, to see if at this stage this, what needs to be done or something else. Here's to being constructive. I mean, it's not some other home, we've set it up. We're back to square one. Excuse me, Mr. Novaković. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14556	I'm just saying, Mr. Bešlagić's last line is not worth a line.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14557	Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14558	I might be able to disrupt some idyllic political nature with a proposal. If we're going to talk about the content of the project offered, I don't dispute that we need to get as much data as possible, although we need to start to clarify and be aware that we can't get any logical information about what the name of this task is. But as we're going to talk about this project, and if we were to possibly give anyone an assignment to do it, then I'm pointing out that this paper that's been offered to us all, requires dorado, I've only mentioned a few things, but I want a comment, here I'll just tell you one fact. If you ask the World Bank or say what is being treated as a donation to us, the World Bank will tell you that 5, something billion dollars has been invested in BiH based on donations. I'll just tell you that these are credit funds that BiH is paying off as a loan under a) under the IDA terms... it's not a donation for us. You'll get that amount as if it were a donation. I'm saying that now you need to clear up some old, do some... I personally appreciate that it would be best to refer to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to initiate a proposal to do a project for the Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with the rules and procedures under which the project of this kind is being carried out and to give a deadline to the Council of Ministers to do this project by a certain deadline, taking into account all these reserves that we have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14559	Mr. Munib Jusufović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14560	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to be very brief, I had no intention of including myself but I want to bring a practical experience closer to this area. I believe that Parliament is making a decision to need this kind of information, or report, absolutely had a good intention, without further ado, and all those who today think it is necessary to welcome such a good intention. I have to tell you right now that I'm totally pessimistic about getting any information at all. I'll make myself clear. For the reasons that we needed, I'll tell you about three thousand facilities of various international organizations in Brcko in the south have invested. From various European countries, Saudi Arabia, etc. It means different... I have to tell you that the same principle is the same pattern of behavior when we asked that we need it to have cumulatively. No 82 was the only one who didn't want to give the information. That's the data for them, there's no way we could've gotten anything. I want to say about those who think it's impossible to get to the relevant one, the report. We can draw various conclusions as to why it is, we would have come to some if there had been both washing and all. It's just data for them. There's just no way. I'm just taking an example of one environment where we couldn't get to any single data. So, all the data that someone here is saying is being thrown out. What do you do next, what don't you do, if you knew you could get 10 percent, but I don't believe it, because I know we didn't get any information here, then I would support it. Since I think that's what I see here, I'm against it because I find it immaterial, because there's nothing I can do about it. And I think that that part of politicizing, I have to be honest now, what Mr. Selim is saying, Novaković, is politicizing, so if you don't vote, you're afraid, you're where it went, I mean that's not the way, it's not the principle. That's not the way, we can't force someone to vote how we like it if they don't want to vote then we say that's it. In that case Mr. Novaković could tell me and you, Selime, you were the mayor of Tuzla, you got all the donations you wanted, and I got them in Brcko, so you could say the same thing. Why am I saying this? I speak for reasons in the last Parliament, who won't vote for this, they're malts not criminals, that's because someone needs it, I mean don't really mean it that way. It irritates me wherever it goes on like that, I'll vote counter-voting, maybe even by argument. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14561	Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14562	First of all, the home made such a decision to form a commission. No, I was against it. Well, Novaković said that. And then, yeah, yeah, he was against it, and then he justified it and he could've made it up to this commission first was to know who was hit and who hit him. Here you don't know, there's talk here that you got 18 billion and that we stole, we stole the Bosanac and the Hercegovac, all the information we wanted to get, the commission found out that... without argument, and I didn't ask for anything else, but that the proposal or that the commission said you couldn't do it or ask for it, you have a project that was expensive or that was given to the Council of Ministers who were going to say, this is a project for the future. So leave him out of it and we'll finish the job. And don't tell me now I voted against it and now you see how stupid that was and I voted against it probably. And the third thing, Munibe, I'm not afraid of this either, and you'll get all the information from Tuzla as far as the donation came, so don't talk to me sick. I'm not asking him to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14563	Is it a replica, sir? 83
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14564	So I say publicly and loudly that I will vote against when someone makes me vote like that. Turns out I didn't vote, I did vote really, I'm not saying it's a great honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14565	Thank you very much. Please, the debate is closed. I'm just saying that as a home, we can't run away from responsibility for this issue because we've taken over and reached a conclusion. And don't even make this late for hours to simulate this thing. It's not quite that simple to say here. Now there's nothing a commission can do about it, and there's no way to accept this project. Let's be serious. Let's get a deadline for this committee to do on the basis of this debate with the Council of Ministers. WaitŠefik wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Well, here's what I think. I keep putting the project to the vote. I don't go to the essence of things. The point is, this House has taken over from... before the public and will offer a report through the Commission of Investigation. Well, here's my suggestion. So it's not just mine, it's me who sums up the hearing, Šefik. There were still demands that this, in agreement with the Council of Ministers, definitely determine the character of the project whether it is possible to finance it, whether it is too expensive, in what way to commit to it and what bothers us to give it to the commission for a month and that here we are now. I put my proposal to the vote. I ask the House to be clear about this proposal. I put the motion to the vote, sir. Here are some better formulas to hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14566	I don't think, I won't bother at all. We just need our colleagues and colleagues to know that in the commission as equal members who... were in some way involved in the work of representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights, representatives of the finance ministry and the Treasury and the Ministry, another ministry. Therefore, they were... The Council of Ministers is kind of involved. Therefore, I would really like to decide today whether we accept this project or not, and debunk the commission so that it can no longer work and that it is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14567	I'm staying with my proposal. So I mean not only the Ministry of Human Rights but the Ministry of Finance, in terms of the reality of the project and as an institution. And that's what we're gonna ask for as a home. I am putting the motion to the vote. Please, Dom, there's no more. What about the technique? I ask the House to make its statement on this proposal for a conclusion. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, We'll leave 'cause there's no Mr. Špirić to agree. There's no college member. I wouldn't let Mrs. Špirić object to me tomorrow. 84 We move to the final point of the 31st agenda, that's Ad.31. The election of one member of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 4(1) 1 of the House of Representatives shall be elected by a member of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Given the overall structure of institutions under the law, it is time for the candidate to be of the Bosniak people's order. We have received a proposal to appoint Mr. Zehid Kovač as a member of the High Court Prosecutor's Council. Then it's the mistake I got here, Zahid Kovač. In addition to the motion for a decision, you have received a résumé as well as an act of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. I'm opening a debate. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14568	I really don't get it if the High Representative named 13, what doesn't he name the other two?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14569	I'm sorry, we're naming this proposal according to the law that we adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14570	I do not believe that since this point was put into effect, the law states that the High Representative appoints 13 and the Council of Ministers and House of Representatives 2. I mean, I don't believe that's what law says.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14571	Mr. Jovanović, we appoint an institution according to the law that we adopted. The Council of Ministers appointed, all other institutions should be appointed under the law that we adopted, not according to what the High Representative has appointed. So we respect the law that we have passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14572	Here's a proposed one and says it takes two.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-27-0.u14573	The Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of One, and it established one candidate. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 85 I ask the House to declare a proposal to appoint Mr Zahid Kovač as a member of the High Judicial Council of BiH. Vote now. With 26 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we appointed Mr. Zahid Kovač as a member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. We've exhausted the agenda for the 42nd session. I'll lock her up at 20:45. I thank all the MPs. I wish you a pleasant holiday to refresh yourself and with a new creative flight we continue our work. Youbiti be reported to be in touch with the club chiefs and the Home Secretary, if you can catch me, you can catch up with me. The session was completed at 8:50 p.m.
