ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14947	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 45th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests, as well as representatives of international and non-governmental organisations who follow the work of the House, were invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present. According to the service report, I find that the session is attended by 33 representatives. From the Federation of Bih 21 from Republika Srpska 12, it means 33. We have a full-time quorum, we can work and decide full-time. Justice was sought by Mr. Suljkanović, Mrs. Sopta, Mr. Hadžić and Mr. Jovanović who are on the official path. The delays were announced by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Mr Sead Avdić, the justice of Mr Munib Jusufović. You ladies and gentlemen received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. This morning at 9:00 a.m., we had a session of the Colleges in an extended composition and we have a small addition to the existing draft agenda. It refers to the 15th item of the agenda, where, instead of point (e), the Commission’s report on the harmonisation of the point (e) would remain only the Joint Commission’s report on the effort to reach an agreement in the identical text and under 1) the Law on Seed and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants, under (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, under (c) the Law on the Red Cross-Cross Society and under (d) the Law on Missing Persons. And a new 18th point of the motion for a decision on the parliamentary term of Mr Munib Jusufović, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So it's consistent with the Expansive College. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I thank the MPs and find that the 45th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda, 1. Minutes from the 43rd and 44th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Confirmation of appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, 3. Agents' questions and answers, 4. Report from the Commission from the College to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code of BiH, Proposer Selim Bešlagić, First Reading Law, 2 5. Report from the Commission from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, first reading, Proponent Mr Momčilo Novaković, 6. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for a conclusion that the relevant Commission is drawing up a new report on the Proposal for a Law on Payments and Refunds of the holder of the judicial and prosecutorial duties of civil servants and employees in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, 7. Proposal for a Milorad Živković the List of Publicities of Households and Agricultural Lands in 2005 following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH, Second Reading, 9. Proposal for a Law on Public Television Service BiH, Second Reading, 10. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy of BiH, Second Reading, Law No 01.02-2-70/04 of 29.07.2014, 11. Proposal for a Law on State Border Service, Second Reading, 12. Proposal for a law on control and control of the crossing of the state border, first reading, 13. Proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and income distribution, first reading, 14. Proposed law on the financing of BiH institutions, first reading, 15. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text pa (a) The Law on Seed and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants BiH, (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH (c) the Law on the Red Cross-Cross Society of BiH, (d) the Law on Missing Persons in BiH, 16. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on Internal Affairs, 17. Special Report on Human Rights of BiH on Election Registration issues in order to achieve an active electoral right and achieve passive voting rights of national minorities in BiH in the 2004 and 18 municipal elections. Proposal for a Decision on the parliamentary mandate of Munib Jusufović, a representative at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Moving to point one, that's, ad 1. Logs from the 43rd and 44th session of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state by voting on the 43rd and 44th sessions. Who's in favour of accepting the minutes of the 43rd and 44th sessions? Vote now. I understand that, unanimously with 32 votes, we accepted the minutes of the 43rd and 44th sessions of the House. Thank you very much. Moving to point 2. That is, Ad2. Confirmation of the appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 3 The chairman of the Council of Ministers adopted the Decision on the appointment of Mr Slobodan Ečimović as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on 7 September 2004. In accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law and the deputy ministers are on duty after the House approves the appointment decision. The issue of approval of the appointment of the Prime Ministers and Deputy Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 10.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The decision to appoint the Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is yours, and I am opening the debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare by voting on the Decision to appoint Mr Slobodan Ečimović as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations at the Council of Ministers of BiH. Vote now. Therefore, the proposal or designation of the designation decision had a general majority. The Federation has an entity from the RS that doesn't have a majority. In the business deadline provided for by the College, this one will be declared. We're going to the 3rd point, that's it, Ad.3. Advocacy questions and answers As you know in the last few sessions we have not had the opportunity to comment on the answers to the parliamentary questions. During that period, the questions were answered by Mr Petar Kunić, who was asked at the 28th session. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, on the question asked at the 31st session. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, questioned at the 35th and 36th session. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić and Munib Jusufović asked questions at the 38th session. Mr. Beriz Belkić, Sead Avdić, Muhamed Moranjkić, Selim Bešlagić, Šefik Džaferović, Milorad Živković, Ljiljana Milićević, asked questions at the 41st session, and Mr. Adem Huskić, Selim Bešlagić, Elmir Jahić and Milorad Živković asked questions at the 42nd session of the House. Do any of the MPs who have received answers to questions want to comment on the answers? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14948	Chairman, respected colleagues, I am not satisfied with the answer to the business question number 1511547/04 since 16.07.2014. On the first question of the Tuzla customs terminal, except for the finding that the conditions of all customs duties do not satisfy, all other arguments are incorrect. The customs terminal in Tuzla was done under the regulation and assignment of the Federal Customs Administration and was obtained(?) is in a contest that has never been annulled or if it has never been unpublished or are those who have won the contest ever notified of shutting down the same. The customs terminal is constructed under all the conditions specified in the letter and should not be defined. So I ask that I be answered precisely why it is not respected, that is, when the customs terminal in Tuzla will start working, because in the current conditions of road construction to the current customs terminal that does not satisfy it are catastrophic. I'm going to turn this matter over to you again in this form. 4 And the second question for the transport of cigarettes or certain... he replied that they were not in charge of taking care of other customs administrations outside BiH. However, I must inform you that this has already been done, that the Croatian customs office has withdrawn the decision to grant consent only at the crossing, three customs crossings and that further transfer of cigarettes is allowed, i.e. at the customs terminal in Orash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14949	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Next to comment is Mr. Živković, so Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Ćeman, so Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14950	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've been given two questions, so if you'll allow me to comment both questions. One question is the question that the SNSD has raised several times in this Assembly and it was about paying out pensions in the part of BiH where they were earned and no longer doubting, so the May 12th Agreement was signed inter-entityally on pensions paid throughout the BiH area. By speeding up the implementation of the agreement, we would solve a major problem that is an obstacle to our entry into the EU as regards human rights violations. And in this response, it was pointed out that there was a great risk that based on the judgments received and the recommendations of the House for Human Rights, practically all pensioners who have the right to receive a pension where they are earned, sue the state. For this reason, I thank the Council of Ministers who signed this agreement. The second question was that on several occasions when it comes to important laws here, we spent a lot of time discussing where these institutions should be the headquarters to implement these laws, we'll remember various agencies, indirect taxation directives, etc. In this response, as you can see in Sarajevo, there are currently 45 BiH institutions. In Banja Luka we have 2 in Serbian Sarajevo 1, I do not see that in other cities we have. Is it centralised, is it decentralisation and what is not given in or is not answered to my question is a proposed list of institutions that we need to form and where they should be. If the Council of Ministers had the courage to write at least proposals from these institutions, they would see that a large number of institutions go back to Sarajevo without other BiH cities having institutions. I'm asking you here, is it typical of centralisation of BiH or just strengthening the state as some want to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14951	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14952	The Honorable President, I had the answer to that last session, I don't have it with me right now, but I have to say I'm totally dissatisfied with the answer. In fact, that's not the answer. My question was when will the agreement between Croatia and BiH be concluded on pension-inhabited insurance, when the citizens of BiH will begin to exercise those rights they have acquired in the Republic of Croatia. The answer was that the commission was formed and nothing was done and there was a meeting. So, what are the conclusions of that commission? On several occasions, I insisted on answering that question and there is no answer... that the competent ministry must be serious. So there is no question of where fundamental human rights are being violated, and in this House and on all committees, human rights are being discussed non-stop. Human rights are the basis for changing the Constitution, human rights are for this, human rights are for that, and here fundamental human rights are being violated, just as they are being violated by Mr. Živković's question. I ask the Council of Ministers to get serious and give an answer because it is a few thousand people from the Republic of Croatia who are citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14953	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14954	Thank you very much. My question was whether or not there is a place and how the centres are organised to say the resociation of drug users, what their status is, and whether the legislation is sufficient, is sufficiently stable in fact and complete in order to successfully fight that evil. I got a satisfactory answer, but since I haven't figured out which legislation I mean, in terms of the assessment now whether it's enough or not, I didn't, of course, get the deal. And I was curious because, in contact with people, the right to tell you, most people think besides these preventive educational and other measures, that they simply need and have a more effective system of sanctioning those who are this, etc. So I would just specify the question really is whether in the criminal-legislative area it is satisfactory in terms of an effective fight against drugs and all those who simply in this context can be treated as unauthorized behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14955	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Ms. Ljiljana Milićević, here are the comments on the answers received, so Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14956	At the 41st session of the House of Representatives, I asked the question of the name of the Municipality of Berković, which is called Berkovići by the Law on Territorial Organisation and Local Self-Government and the name Stolac Berkovići is applied according to the CIPS project. In fact, the answer I received was in fact in general, none of them sent a copy of the Law on Unique Original Count, so the list of municipalities, the decision of Karls Vestendorf of '99, and the essence of the questions was that the CIPS project recognises the name stolac Berkovići and the dissatisfaction in the Municipality of Berkovići is for the reason that when we look at other municipalities that have their own name, the typical example is the same as the war that was in the municipality of Trebinje, is now in another entity, it is not applied to the same decision and I demand an actual explanation, I believe that this odluka of Vestendorf does not apply to the Municipality of Berkovići, as it does not apply to the Right. And in that sense, I repeat the question of enlargement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14957	Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14958	I thank you, Chairman, I must say that I am in response to the parliamentary question when this is about the case of Aleksandra Mumović and otherwise whether there is or whether 6 is now being tried for a verbal delinity in the State Border Service, I must say that I have received what I knew. But I didn't get an answer to what I didn't know and why I asked the question. Namely, I received an answer that it was a violation of international, interpersonal relations because it was appointed misbehaved against its colleagues and associates. Well, the remaining one thus questioned what the interstate and the status of the BiH state itself are said here. Indeed, I don't know if Mr. Sulejman Tihić should answer because of his initiatives that question the status of the BiH state. Is his behaviour toward his colleagues in the presidency also inappropriate, if it can be inappropriate to behave in the State Border Service? Of course, I am not a representative of Mrs or Miss Aleksandra Mumović and she will probably seek her rights at the Court of Human Rights because apparently her rights here and human rights are at stake. I also received an answer on whether the president of the second-degree Disciplinary Commission resigned after this case. I got the answer that you did resign for personal reasons, which I guess is enough to say in itself that these cases and these cases are just doing what this person here is surprised to do. I sincerely hope that these cases will not really be and that simply this case will be sufficient to teach that this issue of misbehave towards colleagues is really, in some ethical code, truly reflected in all possible aspects before making such decisions as was made here. So I'm not this one, happy with the answer because I got what I practically got this one, I knew before this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14959	Thank you very much. This concludes the comments Mr. Adem Huskić, please, I have not seen you sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14960	Mr. Chairman, I was deliberately waiting for the last one to comment on my being satisfied with the answer. So my question was about changing those registration plates on cars at the time of transport and contained one suggestion that these tables were not changing, and I received a reply from the Council of Ministers that a legislative procedure was being done, that a law would be done that would enable the unique registration of cars and that the tables would not be changed. It's on the trail of what I thought, and I'm satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14961	Thank you very much, Mr. Huskić. No more comments. I conclude this first part of this point and we move on to asking new parliamentary questions. For now, I have a registered Mr. Nikola Špirić, so Mr. Ćeman, Križanović, Moranjkić, Živković, Andrić, Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14962	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I did not want to report for debate within the second item of the agenda. It's over, according to the Foreign Trade Ministry. What I'd like to say may be a mature 7-hour time, and that's what we're going to see in the College to define one item of the agenda for maybe one of the next sessions. This is an analysis of the implementation of the conclusions of this Parliament, regardless of what the state body concerned, the most conclusions were made towards the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and, unfortunately, the largest part, according to the information I have, are not being implemented, which means that this Parliament is located in one of the heartless areas when it defines its own conclusions, so today I will ask a question based on the information I receive from the field. You know that we have made a decision to change customs tariffs immediately before the annual holidays, i.e. this Parliament, although I was then voting against and it has been said that within three months, the Resolution Ministry will inform the public and Parliament how much these customs tariff changes have been in the interest of meat-producers and how much in the interests of carnivores. Unfortunately, we do not have those decisions but I am getting information from the field that the Council of Ministers is simply continuing to work in different ways against the interests of domestic production and producers or Resorno to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In this context, I ask the question, on the basis of which the conclusions and decisions of the Council of Ministers allowed the import of meat and meat processed from tariff codes 0202309000 then 0203191500 or 0207141020 then 0210113100 and 0210198100 and the fact that the ladies and gentlemen, that imports are imported through the crossing of Račva and in the crossing of Gradiška in a way that imports are directly against domestic production and domestic producers. It's known which privileged companies are involved. You also have information in the Republic Authority with... Republika Srpska in Banja Luka can also check and we have complaints from manufacturers who have international certificates in accordance with international standards of companies that have the right to export to the European market, who simply cannot sell what they produce because from Poland and other countries, what we warned about when we were changing the tariff system. And in that sense, I am ready for the public, of course I have here a letter of Milošević- Transport, a company that has an international certificate, to give the public an insight to check it out, but it would be good if the Resord Ministry had submitted to this Parliament within 3 months of the information on whether the change in the tariff system or tariff has yielded fruit and whether, in terms of the debate we had here in Parliament. And of course, to ask the Presidency whether it was moving in the appointment of the Chief Auditor in line with the conclusion of the Parliamentary Council of BiH, or whether the Presidency acted in accordance with the law, which I also warned when we reached that conclusion, a conclusion within the Council of Representatives. So, I'm interested in one answer, and it would be good if people who have references from outside trade came to the Resor ministry or(?) The candidate who was offered spent 5-6 years at the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced, apparently engaged in exporting live or importing living people. It had nothing to do with where it was proposed and that was the reason for my abstention. So the time has come for people with references to be held responsible and I do not dispute the right of political entities to negotiate, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14963	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14964	I have two questions, but before that one little remark. In fact, it has the opinion that members, as most parliamentarians say, should not be asking parliamentary questions 8 because, as they can through the government, but I want to make this comment right now. Namely, I've been asking a question and wounding this, given reviews in this regard. People I represent sometimes simply want to either initiate solving some issues or information. Therefore, I want to ask two questions that are current and are really motivated by the discussions on the relevant topics. Namely, we welcome the fact that at BiH level we received the Law on Defence, Ministry and these structures, etc. People are interested, and that's my first question, the next question. An agreement on a balance of military effects in BiH and neighbouring countries, the Republic of Croatia, as well as Serbia-Montenegro, has been reached in time, this is not the official name of the agreement. The question is, how is this agreement implemented, who oversees it and whether the BiH Presidency and other BiH bodies, as far as I know, the Parliamentary Assembly has not informed or discussed it, and what views on this matter are taken? Of course, I ask for a written reply from the BiH presidency and possibly the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence, depending on who is considered responsible. The second question is, what is the truth about counterfeits in the CIPS project, I mean recent writings in the media, and I request current data on the realization of the project of ID card, driver's license, etc.? I'm asking for a written reply from the Civil Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14965	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14966	I would like to remind Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues of the 34th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which was held on 23.04, so by discussing the agenda, there was a debate on the provisional report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the relevant commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Restitution. And on this occasion, the House of Representatives has made two very important conclusions for me that I want to point out here now. I would quote that conclusion, both conclusions. First, it undertakes the BiH Council of Ministers to establish a working group that, by respecting the proposed law of MP Nikola Špirić, the amendments to the other legislative initiatives on the institution, is meant by the law that I have also submitted, the results of the extensive debate on this subject, all written and other suggestions, the comparative experience of the relevant European countries, transition countries, and especially from the bh environment, to propose a solution within 3 months, i.e. a new amendment to the bill proposal or a whole new bill. I was quoting the conclusion of this house. The second conclusion on the same point was reached on my proposal and it was said, the Council of Ministers undertakes to inform the House of Representatives within 30 days of the return of the nationalised property, with a specific reference to the following. On what basis is this property returned? What institutions and individuals and what kind of assets were they? Now, you see, from the first conclusion, it's been six months since the session, and the deadline that should have been respected, it's already been three months and this second five months has passed. I would like what my colleague Špirić had just said about the institution's relationship to the conclusions of this home, we had a two or three session debate here, or some information by the Council of Ministers, as he carried out the conclusions of this home. Then we estimated that this information was not valid at all because it could not be debated. Now, that's why I'm not going to place this issue on the Council of Ministers anymore, but I'm asking the College now, what are they going to do to make these conclusions come true? By the way, it would be good to repeat the debate on how the conclusions and decisions of this home are being carried out in the interest of the dignity of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14967	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14968	Thank you. I would ask two questions, similar to a colleague to Ćeman, and I would support him on his first comment on the question of position and opposition, because this is a unique case in Europe that I do not go beyond these frameworks, that of the 10 questions asked, 8 sets a position, whose ministers are working or not working in this country. The first question, everyone in this country is known and it is a public secret, that you can't get a pension either in the Federation or in the RS regardless of the conditions and condition of the patient, or a person without a bribe moving in a quantified number of 3,000 marks in his pocket. It's a well-organized mob operating under the auspices of state institutions and bodies or bodies of public institutions. The question is, will anyone in this country put an end to it and when and who is institutionally in charge, even though I know it, but I want to ask publicly about solving these problems because so far, practically, no one is involved in this, and the store is already legally working in this country? While patients die in a certain state, others at the expense of the state's robbery, both states and nations, are receiving pensions, are taking on the burden of this country. And the second question, again recently aggressively through the media, is the commercial that Corridor VC is building Bosmal. The question is, is this ad true, and if so, when a tender is called and under what conditions and if it is not who and how does it spread these untruths? I ask this Parliament today to reach a conclusion, to prepare for the next Parliament information on all activities in preparation for the construction of this corridor, what has been done so far and how far it has occurred, because you know that we have recently chosen a commission that was missing so that this programme could be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14969	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Živković, please. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14970	One question very briefly. Is the tarmin correct, the departure of BiH's Mine Unit to Iraq? I think that is a very important question, given that we here in Parliament have had resolutions that have gone into the commission phase. We were also thinking about putting it as a part of the agenda, so I think it would be very important to answer this question very quickly. The second question is that if anyone in this Parliament knows that BiH has 100 million unpaid funds somewhere, it should say that because I have information that 100 million unpaid funds on which BiH has the right to remain in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, BiH earned 100 million KM through the BH power grid based on electricity transit. The funds lie in the vault of the Republic of Croatia and have no intention of paying off BiH. I ask the Council of Ministers why he does not insist on these funds and ask the High Representative, if it is not his role to help this troubled people for 100 million, what is his role in this country? Is it just imposing the law or is it a representation of BiH in Europe and the international community to help it in cases like this? My question is, when will the Republic of Croatia pay for BiH over 100 million, earned by the transit of electricity through the BH power grid, and does the Council of Ministers have that information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14971	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14972	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I can hardly remember the sessions, so I did not mention in all the parliamentary question the date on which the meeting was held when we discussed the problem of arresting Mr. Jelavić Prce and Rupčić, so my parliamentary question was referred to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. Will it also be evident when it comes to the report of the committee that gave the investigation of the legality arrested by the gentlemen mentioned? As far as I know, a conclusion has been made or a deadline has been left in which they were obliged to manifest themselves regarding this report, so that we can end the procedure here. Unfortunately, we have witnessed the fact that against Mr Jelavić, the president of this country yesterday and others, that I do not now appoint them here, you have had the opportunity to see it in the media these days, especially on television last night. There are some new processes that remind us of those times, the most difficult times for communists who Stanjin could have forgotten. I don't think we have the right to shut up and close our eyes in front of this, so I'm also telling the College, not a question, but an initiative through which I'm asking you to put pressure on these ministries, give them a precise, short deadline in which they are obliged to manifest themselves on this first question, so that we can end it and then further see how we do so. That would be the question and initiative of the College. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14973	Thank you very much, Mr. Filip Andrić. The word is Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, please. Well, Mr. Vinko Zorić. I don't have any more reports. Is there anyone else who wants to?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14974	Here's the year I'm in the House of Representatives, my questions are always annoying because I have to say that questions are always about the question of life and justice of people and the injustices that are being done to them in their lives. That's how it's gonna be now. Since we Hrvat in BiH have no media, then this is the only place where we can hear the criminal things that happen to us as a people. Just 10 days ago, in Tuzla, who was proud of her multiculturalism in these times, literally with the help of five terrorists, the priest Don Marko Lasić was beaten with faith or not by the police. So I ask Minister of the Interior, Tuzla County will he stay in that place and will he do anything, because here's ten days gone by, there's not a word about it? The second question concerns the same person, the same function, that in Lukavac Municipality, in the last three years, which was killed, which raped 6 Hrvatic. The victims live with their perpetrators in the neighborhood. They see him every day. None of them have been processed. Why, am I asking a question? And one question to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. We all remember the public advances, in my opinion, the disgraced General Klajn, as he is certain who the murderer is in a terrorist act according to the late Minister Joza Leotar. Years have passed, things have been covered up, and Klajn's gone home. That's why I'm calling the D.A.'s office and asking, will he and when he's filed a criminal charges against this hostel and will that happen soon? Because it's an ugly message from the international community institutions, according to the BiH regiment, playing towards the family of the murdered, according to those whom the late minister cooperated, worked, who knew him and I think it is inadmissible and I'm surprised and perhaps it should be so, why are other representatives of the international community, institutions and individuals silent in this country? And we all remember very well that that's why the information was wrong, the money got, no one's answering for it because the money went to the people who were in jail, so they were forced to testify wrongly, and neither were the people who had been in prison for two years and wrongly... filled the newspapers and headlines and none of those passionate newspapers, or television houses, any word of apology to those innocent accused people after two years. It's my question as a satisfaction to these people, that this breakthrough by Klajn should be brought here and tried publicly.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14975	Thank you, sir. Mr. Bešlagić's word has a gentleman, don't get up until I give you my word. The question has been asked by the competent minister. If there's anything wrong with the quote, let him answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14976	So three, five thugs of which three Muslims and two Hrvat beat up Don. Therefore, they were caught and it is not true that nothing is done. I would ask only so much for the correctness of this House. So don't be dramatic. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14977	Please, Mr. Bešlagić and Avdić, that you respect the Rules of Procedure, you cannot speak anyone until I give my word. [[Joint discussion Beslagic, Jovic]] Please, Mr. Jović, come on. Please, Mr. Jović, let us respect the Rules of Procedure and the Rules here at the House of Representatives. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14979	This is Belagic's because the only thing to do is figure out whatever we want. Uh, I have three parliamentary issues and none of them will be related to the bottle, but since it's also a bottle in the media blockade, I can tell you that last week there was a European boxing championship and that the team won three-quarters and three-fifth places, which is a huge success of the Bosnian-Herzegovic sport. The first question is the College of the House of Representatives, when will I begin to receive representation material on the Croatian bunny? In fact, it has already been half a term, and I have not received any material in Croatian and often get materials in English. Is it the colonisation of BiH or is it something else? The second question, other issues are the Ministry of Transport and Communications or the Council of Ministers, what about building highways through BiH? Who makes the decision on the roadways and the start of construction? Who is responsible for highways, BiH institutions or entities? Who builds the highway of Sarajevo-Sarajevo-Zenica and does it fit the same in the Corridor VC? How can it happen that we have a constant traffic sign on the Master's road, a speed limit of 20 km per hour in a length of 2 km in an uninhabited area? And the third question is to the Council of Ministers, when and will the parliamentary procedure come to the Sport Act?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14980	I thank Mr. Zorić. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda. I'm closing the agenda because people don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. And come on, don't think, let's work together. The man has used three times and said what he thinks, without getting a word, and instead of protecting the College and the Rules of Procedure, you are now insisting, that practice is still legalized.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14981	I've heard other claims. We have the right to hear what it is, at least until the answer comes. It would be right if Selim got his word. All right, I'm pulling back, all right. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14982	Please, Mr. Zorić, help me run the session. I'm trying really hard to respect you, to get you all a word, and I didn't really deny anyone. Thank you very much. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on a draft law amending the Penal Code of BiH, a proposal for a representative of Mr sel Bešlagić, a first-reading law in the Commission of the College reached agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law of BiH. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 45, I am reporting to the House and I find that this Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code has been adopted in the first reading. I suggest the House declares whether or not we're going to go to another reading. Please vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14983	...if known, here's where they ask on this side what's going on. Well, it doesn't matter here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14984	With 22 votes for, 1 against, 3 abstentions, we have a general majority. We don't have an entity. So, the College is, there's a consensus in the College that we should make a statement in the second reading of this law today. Let's go to another reading means. Before I open the discussion in the second reading, I would just like to inform you that you have received a report from the relevant committee which found that there has been no amendment to the bill submitted by Mr Selim Bešlagić, but that nomotechnical processing of the text should be carried out as well as to add to Article 2 which has been omitted by mistake, as stated in the report. I am opening a debate on the proposal of this law in the second reading. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14985	It's about the fact that this Criminal Law has processed everything and who's covering up war criminals, etc. and no process has been processed which knows where the mass grave is and does not reveal that it is in fact required to comply with the same law. This is about the fact that after a statement about Srebrenica we've got about 20 data on mass graves, but we still don't know about Bugojna, we don't know about Mostar, so it seems like this amendment is looking for, requires that this process be processed who knows about the mass grave and doesn't say that it actually fits the Criminal Law. It's just one addition that, with these remarks being made, I don't think there's any reason not to vote on it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14986	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14987	I didn't get it right. I wish my colleague would say it again, not seriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14988	Today it has become known that many know where the mass graves are, but they won't say. There are other conditions, and that's actually asking for money for that information. For the reason we don't need to turn this knowledge into a business and know where the mass grave is, I consider it a obligation for every citizen of BiH, then we just wanted to get into that point of the law and who knows where the mass grave is and doesn't report it, that it fits, by the same meaning I'd tell the dots as well as who knows where the war criminal is hiding or who committed some war crime, etc. So there's nothing there, just to get that clause into that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14989	Okay, now I hope I can move on. So, I absolutely support this, but this is the question that Miro Jović asked earlier. So, it's claimed that someone knows, then whoever knows someone knows it's the same fault he didn't say. I mean, it's, like, maybe a happier solution would be if in any process it was determined that someone knew and didn't say, then that they could be held accountable, not if anyone knew. I mean, I'll support that, no matter what the formulation, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14990	I thank Mr. Zorić. After him, the word was asked for by Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14991	I've been from the beginning and I'll still be against this law. Not because I don't think anyone should fit the one who knows, but really this definition, means this vague formulation to be found in one law, really what the Criminal Law is, it's not clear to me, be careful I am, that if someone knows, that someone knew and didn't, or was looking for money for it, it's criminally appropriate. That's not controversial. But to prevent a person from asking for money to give information, by questioning in a very bad way, or leading to an even worse possibility, which is that everyone accuses that he knew, so now we're just proving to the courts whether someone knew or didn't know, it really doesn't make any sense. So an extremely inaccurate formulation that will not actually achieve what the promoter wanted to become. And for that, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14992	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14993	...the same thing about this who knows, so there's no formula right. I didn't find her anywhere, in criminal or otherwise. As to who knows, I'm guessing 15 knows or something. If certain facts are established that say he knew, otherwise that formula is very dangerous, very awkward. I think it needs to be avoided and it's unacceptable, at least from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14994	Thank you very much. No more, Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14995	I don't have one here, just this one, this compliance decision I won and I didn't bring, believe me, this material. It is defined by the same treatment as the cover-up of war criminals, war crimes committed, etc. So I can't say who knows now. So the same terminology was defined on the commission, which Mr. Kunić was on and which he was on, I think they were adopted unanimously, which means there was no dilemma whatsoever. Therefore, if it is necessary to read this, [[Common discussion]] Well, no, then I don't know why you adopted. I think you can read that proposal, so if it's inconclusive, then I agree that it needs to be corrected. It may also be postponed for the second session of the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14997	We've already entered the second reading, and we're where we are. Who wants another word? He doesn't want anyone else. I am concluding the debate on the fourth point, Meaning on the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code of BiH, Proposer selo Bešlagić in the second reading, along with this supplement, that nomotechnical processing of the text should be carried out as well as the addition of Article 2 as stated in the report. I ask the House to make a statement by voting on the proposal for this law amending the Penal Code. Vote now. Do you want to do it again? We'll do it again. Can we, uh, get the service ready? I ask the MPs to vote again on this bill's proposal. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, So 23 votes for, 8 against, no abstentions. The general majority exists. There is no entity from the RS. So, thank you. As with the previous point, the College will declare within the business period the existence of an agreement on the amendment of the Penal Code of BiH, proposed by Mr selo Bešlagić. I thank you all. Moving to the fifth point is, 16 Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Auto-Moto Union of BiH, in the first reading, proposed by Representative Momčilo Novaković, you received a report from the Commission from the College. As you've seen, no consent has been reached. In accordance with Article 65(4), we will hold a second round of voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH in the first reading, proposed by Mr Momčilo Novaković. I ask the MPs to vote, all vote. I'm asking MPs to increase the concentration, especially some I've never warned before while others have spoken and I'm not calling out individually, but I'm asking them to really cooperate. So, we're going to repeat the vote and I'm going to read again what I've already read in a conversational manner. So we received a report from the Commission from the College that no agreement was reached on the Proposal for a Law on the Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, Proposer Momčilo Novaković. In accordance with Article 65(4) of the Rules of Procedure, we are going to the second round of voting on the bill tabled by Mr Momčilo Novaković. I ask the MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. So this bill didn't get the necessary general majority. I thank the MPs. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for a conclusion that the relevant Commission draws up a new report on the Proposal for a Law on Payments and Refunds of Judges and Prosecutors' responsibilities and civil servants and employees in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH Therefore, according to Article 65(4), we now go to the second round of statement on this proposal to draw up a new report. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote, now, vote now. Well, since the proposal for a conclusion has not been given the necessary majority, we move to a statement, i.e. a vote on the bill in the first reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal for a bill on salaries and fees of the holder of the judicial and prosecutorial duties, civil servants and employees in the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office in the first reading. Vote now. I find that this bill did not receive the necessary majority in the first reading. So this law is, the bill is considered rejected. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda is, 17 Ad.7. Proposal for a Milorad Živković the List of Publicities, Domesticities, Apartments and Agricultural Lands in 2005, pursuant to Article 104 of the Law on the List of Publicities, Households, Apartments and Agricultural Lands You have received a proposal for this law, with a request for a procedure as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14998	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as explained in the explanation of the application for the 104th procedure, we are aware of the need to pass this law. So, at least we've come to the point where this law is necessary, and I'm going to tell you a few reasons why it's necessary to do so as soon as possible. According to the Programme of Activity for the Implementation of Priorities in 2004, by the Council of Ministers, and from the European Commission Report to the Council of Ministers... on the feasibility of negotiations between BiH and the European Union, on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we had an obligation and we discussed this document at the beginning of this year, or at the end of last year, to pass this law by 31.05.2004. That deadline is long gone, and we've been through it, and one of the reasons why I'm a promoter, not the Council of Ministers, is that we don't respect the deadlines. In this House, doubts were expressed when we discussed this document, that some deadlines were too tight and that we would not be able to respect them with this dynamic and one of these deadlines was the Law on the census. In 16 priorities, this is priority number 12 and I think adopting procedure 104 would respect that priority, especially knowing that it is the chairman of whether it was currently in Brussels for talks on when BiH will enter into negotiations with the EU. I can also say a few more details that there are certain dates in the law that if we follow the usual procedure we will not be able to respect. Also, the reason is that no law has ever been passed that would have been applied for several years in advance. So the laws are passed a year on the census, in the year preceding, and the next year, in which the census will be carried out. I will only state to you the Law on the census of the population and dwellings in 2001 in Croatia, which was adopted on 27 June 2000. The previous BiH census law in 1991, which was passed on July 31st, 1990, and the census was in '91. So this law was supposed to be passed on 31st of the year, so that the list could be prepared properly next year, and that's why I think the procedure of 104 is also justified. On the other hand, if the passing of this law for some other years were to be moved, they would find themselves in great difficulty. The law that would have been implemented in 2006 would have a limiting factor that in the time of the general elections we do not have enough money to implement this law, a law that would have been passed in 2006 and implemented in 2007, it would have come very quickly so that we would no longer follow international recommendations that the census of the population would be carried out in the years starting with the unit. So we couldn't make a pops in 2011, because it's a very short period of time and a great burden for a poor country like this. Also, updating the ballots we had in these elections, all parties, especially in those areas where the parties did not get... votes as a major problem instructions are updating ballots. If they did, or passed the law this 18 year, make a list next year, they would have updated ballots for general elections in BiH in 2006. Not to mention, in order to have a quality database, we were present here when we were bringing in very important strategies such as PRSP or discussing VAT law, only then did we see how many statistical indicators we don't have for basic but very important laws that we're making. And the international community, which is all based on paper and pens and statistical data, has also faced these problems, so there has been a reflection in the proposals, let's say the height of this, the VAT rate or what the priorities of the PRSP programme are. Not to mention the amount of money and time savings, because so far we've been listing refugees in entities several times, doing various studies on the economic and social map of our population, even doing cattle policy and spending the force of money solving the slavem partially, without a unique methodology and with a temporary character. I hear you're going back on the list of refugees and displaced persons, as well as reviewing the data on fighters and disabled persons. I ask you why so much money is spent on solving a partial problem, if we can do one serious problem, or one serious approach by adopting this law by procedure 104, to do the job. Of course, procedure 104, as you know, implies that there is a right to an amendment phase, you have the right to hear all relevant institutions and persons concerning this topic and I think there is plenty of time, resources and political readiness to do this job next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u14999	I thank Mr. Živković for his explanation. I'm opening a debate, keep going. Mr. Bešlagić, Potočnik, Avdić, that is the order. Excuse me, Mr. Bešlagić, Seada Palavrić applied technically, first of all. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15000	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have listened carefully to the legislator of this law and I agree with him that BiH really needs reliable statistics. However, the reasons presented by the applicant for urgency are not acceptable for the SDA Club procedure under Article 104. A team before, there are quite a number of reasons to doubt good intentions when it comes to self-fulfilment of the PRSP requirements in the adoption of this law. Let me personally express my doubts over the fact that amendments to the entity Constitution have not yet been implemented, according to which employment in all public services, therefore, both in the authorities and in the management posts, must reflect the 1999 census. So if it were done then we would have had reason to believe that a sustainable return would occur, that the picture of the whole of BiH would be what it was in '91. In a situation like this, we're not prepared to support procedure by 104, and when it comes to regular procedure, it's going to take a lot more arguments for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15001	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15002	Chairman, respected colleagues, Mr. Živković explained this law and I accept it but as such, I think that since we have the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, the list of the population of property and the rest is only possible on one condition for me. When this ministry acquires courage and says that the return has ended and that we have no more evasive and displaced persons, that moment absolutely this law comes into force and I think that I can absolutely realize that we need these data. The moment that that happens, every census will challenge people, I would say, and support and decline. That's why I think the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Faces according to the data they're now reading, and it seems to me that the figures are extremely large, that I can almost do it on the basis of these figures that say that about a million and a few thousand people have returned, that there are about 500 thousand left abroad, and if we can figure out how much, let me say that the process is over. If there is strength and if there is an argument that this process is over, that we are no longer dealing with the problems of the refugees and displaced persons, then I absolutely support this law and means, conditionally, that I support it if the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons says that we are done with a process called return and completion of this process means the factual adoption of this law and the entry into this phase, which is called the list of the population of property and of all other elements. That's why I'm saying, I've read this bill, it seems to me that the draft is excellent, there are no objections. I'm not about to talk about going back to '91, we can't go back to '91, but we can make it up at least 60-70%, that's absolutely true because we can't get 300 thousand dead, let's say on both sides, make up, we can't get 500 thousand people back to this field, we can't get some condition, but whoever wants to come back, when that ministry says it's done, I think that's when this law absolutely has its place, and I'm about to back it up then.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15003	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15004	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, on the one hand, we have an unfinished return process that will continue for some time, on the other hand, we have a problem not knowing how many BiH residents we have. My thinking is in this direction, to make a temporary census, with the absence of a section of national and religious, or nationality and religion. In this way, we would know how many people live in BiH and when the return process is completed, within 5 or 10 years, we can make a concrete census of the BiH population. So, I suggest that this law pass a provisional list, without these two sections of religion and nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15005	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. The word has Mr. Avdić, Sead Avdić please. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would also like to say a few words about this bill. In fact, at first sight, it is a logical and justifiable request. This country needs a real state of the population at all times and it is not controversial. However, one fundamental thing is forgotten, this is a country in transition, four years of war and a million people moved from its hearth, two million, which means that while there is a Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons at BiH level, there simply can't be a census, which means everything needs to be done to complete this basic process of return and conditionally speaking, part of the neutralisation of the consequences of ethnic cleansing, etc. It means to restore BiH's demographic structure and enable its full multiethnic content. This means that these are fundamental objectives, and in this context when I talk about priorities, it is one of BiH's priorities, which means I would not be able to agree that this law can block European integration, the NATO Pact, etc. We know well what is blocking, at the top of the list of priorities in this country, is to do everything on the side of the potential of both entities of the Brcko District, bringing in war crimes suspects to justice, justice, and simple co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Which means, you see, we have problems in BiH blocking our European integration and our path to the NATO Pact, which means that this law is objectively not in space or in time, simply this one, for consideration or for simple, and at least according to the urgent procedure of Article 104. So, I repeat again, it would not be good to politicise this census, it would not be good to profit on this, it is a fundamental problem of BiH, and I am speaking to BiH again, while this country has the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, until it has implemented a decision on the constitutionality and equality of the people, throughout the territory of BiH, until we have a stable return, a sustainable return, etc. People, how to think and talk about the census. Which means that, yes, I respect the reasons, simply every country should have a simple state of the population in its entire territory, but statisticalally, statistics agencies can also come up with other methods, mathematically and statistically, with a reliable indicator of how many BiH residents there are and by all parameters, what they need to decide in the economic sphere and the political sphere in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15007	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. So, I'll read you the order of reports, then we'd like to allow Mr. Živković to tell the end. Was there a replica? Mr. Novaković, Mrs. Perkanović, Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15008	Thank you very much. I'll replicate Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Avdić. I can't believe I heard this proposal from Mr. Potočnik. To make a list of the population without a name or name. I'm really interested in whether someone ever made a census like that. And what a function such a census is, as Mr. Potočnik suggests. I, uh, I sincerely hope I didn't hear right. As for Mr Avdić, I must say that the story of the political dimension of the census cannot, unfortunately, be avoided. And exactly what Mr. Avdić was talking about is the political dimension of this. I figured out from what Mr. Avdić said, that we'd be doing the list in about 50 years. Before what he said, he won't be able to make it happen sooner. 21 Of course I volunteered for the discussion, so I'm going to say my position on this at the discussion, but, uh, I had to replicate because defending with this argument, the need for one activity, what a census is, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15009	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, Mrs. Perkanović, Mr. Potočnik, I'll read you the reports, that no one, I've all registered. Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Belkić, then Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Novaković, these are discussions, Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go, Mrs. Perkanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15010	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from these discussions, is to say that the census prevents the return. On the contrary, no. I think that the census is necessary not only as a reason and one of the conditions for the entry of the law for entry into the Council of Europe, but also one more reason to see the current situation in BiH. So we'll see exactly with that list. We will have one better approach to solve all problems in BiH, because we will have the right picture, and without a real picture and the right picture, we have no right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15011	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15012	Mr. Novaković, your name is Novaković Momčilo, like my Mladen Potočnik. The fact that you feel Srbin, I feel Bosanac and Hercegovac, but it's a matter of you and me, and from an organisational economic point of view, so that we can plan, so that we can conduct development studies, so that we can do them at all, we have to have data and it's no problem if people write without those two sections. Don't be silly, I'm not first Bosanac and Hercegovac, but first I'm Mladen Potočnik, and then after that, I'm feeling inside myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15013	Two more replicas. Mr. Zorić, Mr. Avdić. Count on the agenda and count on longer work. No problem. Mr. Zorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15014	I, uh, I don't challenge Mr. Potočnik to have his own opinion, but to propose to make a list without national, religious, etc. You see, unlike you, Mr. Potočnik, I'm first a Hrvat and I can't be anything else. I can make up that I'm something else. And then I got the name Vinko, I could be Ivan, Marko, Ante I don't know, hardly Jovan this, I could get any name. Even my parents could not baptize me and would not be Catholic without baptism can not be Catholic, but I cannot invent that I am not Hrvat. I can't make that up. That's what Yugoslavia asked for, that's what you're looking for. She asked 22 national, all national, and so my people. I mentioned earlier that we were, that the BiH team was at the European Championship. There were no flags anywhere, except the Italians were thousands in the hall. If someone else had done so, in the EU in the ENU, they would have been characterised as chauvinists, nationalists, etc. Everyone keeps to themselves and no one will hold us because neither we nor you suggest we keep ourselves to ourselves. I accept Mr. Ćeman to be Bošnjak. I accept Mr. Novaković as a Srbin, but don't ask the three of us not to accept what we are and to be ashamed of it as a legislative body, legal, that people make themselves known. So why is that, why is that? And plus, for the first time I've heard of construction that some Bosanac is a Hercegovac. Let's say I'm a territorial Hercegovac. The Momčilo's a Bosanac, but it has nothing to do with nationality. Come on, don't ask this one, make a cartoon out of one of these important laws. Either we're for the law or we're not. Either the time has come for a list or not, but to make a cartoon out of laws like the census, I don't think it's an option and please don't do it anymore. Especially, here's an exception to the HDZ Club from that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15015	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. I had a gentleman before, well Mr. Potočnik. After Mr. Avdić, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15016	One thing to understand. I look at the problem of how to get out of it and how to solve on one side the problems of developing this country's employment etc. And I don't challenge anyone at all, as I do myself, that he feels both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, if you will and anyone else. Therefore, do not understand my proposal as a denial of the nation and national feeling, but as a proposal to resolve both relations towards the EU and relations to development without hurting any nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15017	I thank you, Mr. Avdić, for the replica. Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić, you have the word, the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15018	That's what Mr. Zorić looks at next. You're at a small door in your discussion very alukquently pulled two things. First, you have apostrophe of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin in three national parties, thus dissociating both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat to other parties. There you go. The other thing is the quote, you said Mr. Momčilo Novaković could go over it cold, that he was Bosnac. But you didn't say the geographical term. If you say so, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15019	Thank you very much. There's more and more developing here, this, the spirit of tolerance and understanding, no matter what the difference. That's what the College says. Mr. Špirić, the debate. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15020	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, of course we are discussing the procedure today, whether it will be shortened or regular procedure concerning the Census Act, but what I want to say is that it is a serious state issue. So it would be good to avoid a different kind of deargumentation at today's debate on the procedure. When the law is debated, each MP will be able to say what he thinks of the law, whether he will accept it in that form or change of form, or not at all vote in favour of the law. I have to say that I do understand a little bit about this matter, but these days you could, say, read different articles of demographics, people who deal with this area, which is important, very important to the BiH state, and I have to say that today is the first time I've heard things that surprised me. It may be a product of debate within political parties and I don't mind it being, but to have a list tied to the right to return, it's a disaster. So the list and return have nothing to do with it. The right to return is a fundamental human right. It'll take so long for people to use it, but here it's very important that we have a political consensus that no one disputes the return. So that's the basic human right, the right to, the issue of the constitution of the people, too, has nothing to do with the list that needs to be carried out, nor who brings the census beyond the list the right to the constitutionality of the people. That's the final question. I heard the idea that a list should be carried out without a nation or faith. It's, it's also making sense to me. In a country such as BiH, people are not just mere figures, and from that list there will be different data, how many populations there are above all, what their age, sex, national structure, everything that the census, what territorial distribution is, everything that a list in a normal state needs to cover. Then, I say no list as long as there's the Department of Human Rights and Refugees, ridiculous. Let's get people to figure out what the list means for this country. Doesn't mean a list of legalizations of ethnic cleansing. There's a responsibility for that, if that's what it was. So it has nothing to do with the list. Well, the number of victims, I have to tell you, will be out in public very soon with information that has been made for seven years on the number of victims. You can't blow up the situation in this country through the number of victims. I have to say that every normal man is also sorry for one man who died in this country, regardless of his national and religious background, but the state has had to know by now what her population is missing. Why hasn't anyone taken up writing down the victims of BiH. No matter what nation they belonged to, which armies they suffered from, to know what we lost from the population. It would be a responsible relationship between the state and us state deputies. So we need to have comparable statistics with European statistics. All economic parameters in this country are fiction. They are forecasts, rarely bad forecasts, and, I would really pray that this gymnastics is religiously avoided in the debate about the need for a census if possible. You'll see what kind of data we'll get when we cross-reference the official reports on the number of victims with the story politicians in this country have been telling. And, to me today, some messages are clear, and now I understand why someone won't accept something paid for by the international community, which the state has called long ago, but new commissions are being formed, because here it is going, forsaking the situation in this unfortunate state, playing various diametrically opposite information, in order to rarely keep national tensions at high temperature. So I ask, therefore, whether or not it will be, it's actually important that we take care of the state so that the procedure is shortened to complete the list in '95. '96 is an election year, '97. It's too late for the story that the Council of Ministers launched, and we supported here that in 2009, the year of admission. So, they won't let us do it normally, whether this is one of the conditions or not. This is one of the essential conditions for us in this desire to know what we have. So that's the most important reason. It doesn't matter if someone in Europe ordered it to be a list. If that's what they're supposed to tell us, then we're really not normal. But it doesn't exempt any of the responsibility for war crimes committed, for ethnic cleansing for the right to return, the right to constitutionality, it's not a question of this law, and I would really like someone to tell me honestly, as I honestly say I'm on the list. Why is it honest? Any arguments against the list? So we'll know how many were killed, so we'll know how many citizens of our country are out there. We'll know how much we have in total, it's very important that this country knows. And what's the reason? I want to know what the reason is, at least I want to know and ask you to tell me human and friendly. So, I regret every victim, but you can't talk 300 grand without having 70 or 80 grand listed. It's not nice to say that. We're sending an ugly picture of the state, but we need to determine every number of names and last names, and it's supposed to be a responsible state business. I'm surprised we haven't had a state commission yet to determine, and I think there is a commission, only yesterday I found out, which has been working on for seven years and has data. I watched them yesterday, only those data to the rulers don't like it, because they've exposed the people. So we're going to have to plan for these superficial analyses, and that's why I think the list should. The honor of all nations, nations, the will of men to return, that does not question this list. I beg you, therefore, not to discuss the essence of the law but the procedure. I'm also for short procedure. If there's no mood, let her go regular, but let's get this job done. To send a message that we are a country that takes care of every man inside and out of the devil and that everything that has a feature of the list in France, Norway, Denmark, America, that our list contains. Well, if you want us to put in the number of dead people killed in the war. And that's the number the country must have. So everything can be covered, but it's just a matter of political will, whether we want it or not. And, I think those who oppose the census, under the motto that they say they want BiH as a whole, make the biggest contribution to the division of BiH. I don't know if they're aware, but I think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15021	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Replica Mr. Sead Avdić, before Mr. Belkić. Please include Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15022	...it's still a dominant question. People, if it's a technique just and a simple condition of the European Community, then we agree. It's no problem. I said a logical and justified request for a country in transition to have a census. That's not controversial. But in this space and time, with such war consequences, such a simple process of transition. We lost four years. We lost a decade of one life simply fighting for one country. Which means that all these arguments fall into the water compared to what I once again claim. The question is objectively asked. In a country where an intense return is being made, an objectively still intense return, where we do not yet have the maximum respect for human rights and the sustainable return of people returning to their hearth. That man will think twice about whether he will stay here or not. Which means, both in such a situation, when we don't have a sustainable return, a stable return, a sustainable return, a simple survival of these people, etc. Then just make... it's really a political issue. Then there's no other argument, and I'm telling you, there are methods of statistics that can clearly identify a fairly real situation in BiH and that's not the problem of people, only our institutions don't deal with it. Have them take some data from the federal ministry and entity ministries from RS, education, science, culture and uniquely all that data can be super-sponsored and made, simply to a real number of BiH residents. Don't tell me that this can't be all fiction and that, we're just doing it by heart and simply with some predictions of anti-cipulation, etc. So it's not all fiction. It can simply come to a real state in BiH. I think I repeat once again, dominantly and politically, but also these other reasons, suggest that it is not time for the BiH census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15023	Thank you. Replica Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15024	I'm really sorry that I have to replicate my colleagues to Seji. I mean, I didn't want to invite anyone to the replica, but I'm talking about the procedure of the law, etc. The census is strictly a state issue. Whether politicians, political options from the data they get, make politics, that's their right, but the list is a state issue, Mr. Avdić. I've been reading, so these days, I've been following demographics what they say, what makes them a problem in these studies, but you can't justify it because the country is in transition. You can have some questions, too, if you want to talk about the list. I agree the same, if you want to go back to the issue of residence and the issue of residence. A list is one serious thing. The census will cost three times as much as the election. Three times. The country must concentrate financially to see how much and how much funds it will allocate for the census. But let's avoid these things that can look like politics itself. So, if anyone will, no one can. The basic human right is to return and do not bring it into contact with the list. But look what's going on. There's no problem with how we're going to get into other system laws in this country. What if, in future, I say to every law, like, but I beg you, therefore, to analyse the situation now, BiH is waiting for difficult questions. Heavy in political, economic and development terms. What do you think if one group or one people shows up now that says, the condition of any conversation is the list. I'm not into that kind of story. We can't condition something that's ours, which is common. So it's no problem that this doesn't get the light of day, that we don't pass the proposal to have a census. I'm telling you we're doing a bad state of BiH, everyone who lives in it. But, well, I respect that others, that there are other thoughts, that people say, it's not the time, I am a legalist, I respect Parliament's will, but try to avoid every time it's a state issue to share. It's a tough question if we split up the national list if we need to. I mean, that's what I don't like about access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15025	Please, Mr. Avdić, before I give you my word, I will not take your word for it. It's a procedure. Do not debate the content of the law and do not, please, be angry if I warn you, not to you, but to everyone here, a request for a procedure under Article 104. There will be an opportunity when we decide on a procedure to give arguments to all who are important to this law. Here, please, because we're not going further on these 26 issues, we're going to have everyone who signed up get a word in, and then I suggest we take a break before these important laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15026	I agree with the chairman, that we are simply talking about the procedure, not the content of the law. I never once questioned the need for a census in BiH and the need simply for this country to know the situation in BiH. So, absolutely all this is necessary, but it is, and there are other reasons and arguments that condition the assessment, simply, justification for the adoption of the law now on new space and time from the aspect of the census and the implementation of that action in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15027	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15028	...the abuses and the Rules of Procedure, the exhaustion of people and I, indeed, have no more words. You all go out, he goes outNikola and he says we're discussing procedure, he's giving a five-minute speech, he's coming out, he's out, he's out, and it really doesn't make sense. We're discussing procedure. So the BiH Party will not support the requirement to go according to a shortened procedure. We, of course, don't mind going through the regular procedure as the Rules of Procedure says. For what? The discussion itself and the debate itself said that it was a law that would produce a mass of controversy needed and unnecessary. So it takes time to do that. Furthermore, here it is said and we agree that it is a state issue and a state project. The state issue, the state project, without participation and government, or the Council of Ministers, we do not also think of pressing public debates, serious debates, consultations with professional bodies, institutions and serious work within clubs cannot be resolved. So that's one argument. He cannot come to the motion, MPs, with the full respect of Mr. Živković. He probably used experts and help, but I still prefer the participation of our official institutions. We also have the Department of Statistics, a little bit to get some opinions and a reason why it defines us not to support the shortened procedure is. Namely, the current demographic state of BiH, I will be very careful, moderate, is not the result of the normal continuity of people's lives. So also the list law, that the list law must be respected. So we need time and we'll be so the law doesn't go according to a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15029	Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15030	I think MPs need... exclusives, to put aside this is a state parliament where we need to talk, if we want to come to a solution. If anyone's in a hurry, go home. Who thinks I'm maltletting him has other options, but I have to say this. Mr. Živković proposed this law on behalf of the second-in-command club in BiH. The political party has teams of people working. Do not dispute Mr. Živković and we to consult the Council of Ministers and all that, if you need to consult, but I do not have any 27 problems, Mr. Belkić, if you need 24 hours, at least I can do it, but I am asking you, as I respect the party club of your party that will propose the law and I do not think I should say that there is no power to get out, so it is another in force, which may also have its own institute if necessary. There, just in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15031	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15032	Here's to me having a little fun too. So, I said it was a state project and we don't think that one MP, regardless of what expertise he used, could offer a project, without the involvement of state institutions, in particular the Council of Ministers, the Department of Statistics and a number of other institutions, which deal with this area, and I really pray that you don't put in your mouth what you're not told. The party's strength, the importance of the party I was talking about, can be viewed as a stenogram. Don't talk about it. Don't let people get to us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15033	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. The word is Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15034	Dear Chairman, I would like to refer to the need to pass this law and to see the reasons why BiH and we need a census law. We now say there is no final return, last year we said that no return of property was completed and we always have reasons, so we have a situation and we say this won't be a relevant indicator, it won't show a real state, and the fact is that everywhere in all the reports from the Council of Europe, from international institutions we meet with the fus notes, where it says, this is based on an estimate, it's based on a sample and I can tell you that we're poisoning as one very non-serious country, because all the data we take is taken with the reserve. We've been put on our souls that our development strategy is based on data, so one of the basic resources of every normal country is a human resource, based on data that are completely taken with the reserve. We don't have a population list. We didn't get the strength of what Mr. Špirić said earlier to write down and, rest their souls, their dead. That we know the exact number, and now we don't want to write it down alive. I think that BiH, I think, has given us a condition that by 2006 the next general elections will have to work, that we must have a census and that is the condition of the Council of Europe. Whether or not we're going to be making a list of the population, as it turned out, wouldn't surprise me at all. I think there's a real need for a list of dreams to be done next year. I, as Mr. Živković's initiative, said Mr. Špirić, the other strongest BiH parties, must add others to the RS, too, I take it quite seriously. And, as a thing that has to be done and I think this is a good initial capsule for something we have to do. I'd personally have a lot of amendments to this bill, but I think we all need to overcome politics. Believe me, there's an expression to say, atheists would say, and here some people seem to think, says, atheists would be disappointed in heaven, and from here some of them would be disappointed when we meet in the Eurpian Union, there's very well known how many trees you have and how many fruit trees you have, how many houses and everything, and we try here, and how many who live and where and what they do. 28 We have nothing and as much as we take everything with a reserve and we think it's normal to live with a blade, so much the world accepts us with a reserve. Therefore, if we do not wait for the Council of Evorpe, or for a foreign agency to write a law and we will translate it finely and adopt it together, I think the direct need for a census of the population to be made in BiH in 2005, and we will soon get it black on white that our task is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15035	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. We still have Mrs Đurković and Mr Gligorić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15037	Excuse me, Mr. Novaković, I ask you to accept the suggestion, not the suggestion, but the fact that we are discussing the procedure. I don't mean you, I mean all the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15038	... a suggestion to me, since I was just thinking about the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15039	I had no doubt, you'd be an example of another.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15040	The SDS Club will support the procedure proposed by Mr Živković or as Mr Špirić said, the SNSD Club and, if we think that the law as law has, indeed a series of shortcomings and we will act in amendment. I wouldn't be too boastful if this law were a SNSD project, because this law should be much more serious, but in the procedure itself, we will try to try everything we think is missing or bad with our amendments. So, we'll support the procedure just because what's written there, those deadlines that were foreseen by the law, because in some other procedure, those deadlines would not be feasible. Of course, I won't talk about the need, etc. We'll leave that behind. If there's a debate, and I hope it comes to that debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15041	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15042	The Party of Democratic Progress will certainly support both procedures and this law, because let me remind you. That I was on behalf of the Party of Democratic Progress, even with a debate on the 29 return strategy, also sought a census, i.e. to go into it. So I'm not going to add anything else, because that's what we're going to talk about when it's time, when there's a debate on the law, and I'm just saying that we don't need to politicise things and that this country from the stage of temporaryity and partiality should finally be introduced into a serious and stable state, which has all the indicators and parameters, based on which it can lead both its policy and its kind of state and life from individual to whole. So, I support both the procedure and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15043	Thank you, Mrs. Đurković. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15044	Gentlemen, on behalf of the mixed club, we suggest, even though the debate is over, it might have been better if I called at the beginning. Indeed, we have a place to talk about the procedure and this club supports the efforts of MPs, particularly Mr Živković, who has made an effort to come out in this House with his proposal and has offered himself a shortened procedure, so that I can have my amendment act and, possibly, to correct everyone on my part of this bill, and it would be best for us to plead now for the procedure, unless it goes through the short procedure, I also understood Professor Avdić and others that no one would dispute the need for the adoption of this law, and then there remains a regular procedure and no one would dispute it, and in that way either in a shortened procedure or regular procedure, we will enter into the process of passing this valid law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15045	Thank you. Here, Mr. Živković, if you feel the need, because it's about the reasons for the procedure. Please for a moment, because it's not a debate about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15046	Of course, but you must also consider that I did not report for replicas after every presentation here and if I had the need for each individual to explain and I thank all the MPs who praised the efforts of me, the party before whom this law and all those who had a different opinion. I'd just like to point you to the basics one more time. In the program that we have all considered here and adopted where we have said that the political consensus of all parties and positions and opposition to both homes at the plenary session is very often praised. In talks with a variety of international communities, delegations and representatives, it is necessary that we bring 16 priorities. This is, I remind you, a priority area of 12 reliable statistics. Law and act to be adopted, census law, period 31.5.2004. Do we, by not adopting this law, say to Europe that we are serious about meeting 16 priorities for the talks? We also share with international representatives the book, which says on the last page that BiH is a state, there are square kilometers, the number of inhabitants 4.332.339. Who says it's like that? What are we talking about? We lie, we talk about how many Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin. That's not true. 30 If I were to mention the presentations of certain MPs, I would mention and remind Mrs Palavrić that it is not a condition for the implementation of amendments to the Constitution for the census law. The only condition Mr. Bešlagić mentioned is the implementation of property laws, the implementation that I have from Mr. Jasmin Samardžić, the minister of refugees and displaced persons of RS, that the degree of implementation of the property requirements is currently 99.5%. It gives more than 41 municipalities an international international certificate to the international community and that seven other municipalities by 15.12 are in the process of obtaining the certificate. It's the only condition for this law to come into practice. There are no other conditions. Other conditions can be listed and hidden behind them, saying that the census law is a political issue, not a crucial issue for joining the European Union, which we are talking about and what our mouths are all about. Likewise, Mr. Avdić, let me say that it does not block the non-compliance of this law entering the European Union, but it makes it difficult for us to travel and process for the simple reason that we do not adhere to the agreement of the signed documents. One of the signed documents is, and, the realization of 16 areas. When there was a debate here on whether or not it is necessary to put a national provision between Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Zorić, I must say that both are represented in this law. It is therefore stated in Article 8 that it is not necessary for someone to declare themselves both religious and national, and that it is a signator to warn the one who writes. So you have the freedom of will and the freedom of your commitment to plead. Yugoslavia, whatever it was, I think it was good and it had the same definition in Article 8 of its law, where it says, a person wearing a list is not required to declare his nationality, because the list... does not have to contain a section about it. So they were good laws, but apparently they didn't suit us all. Mr Belkić, I say, expressed his suspicion in the very way of passing this law, or preparation. I do not dispute every MP here with the right to write, pass a law, hand it over to this Parliament in accordance with established procedure, and I will support every MP's efforts to do so, using his spare time and all the resources at his disposal. But if it were said that the demographic state was not currently created by a normal process, I would ask him why the population census was being brought in in 51 years. How many years have passed since World War II, and have some expressed doubts about the return, or have they asked that I do not know how long the 41st census is used indefinitely? So I also tell my colleague Novaković that SNSD is a serious party, this is a serious proposal, amendments are allowed in procedure 104. I already have some amendments, which concern deadlines, changes in street names and cities that have been stated in the law to run since October 1st, it cannot be respected, but all other legal members here are in accordance with the laws that we have so far, in laws that other countries around us have implemented both in the first year and in the laws and recommendations of the UN for the justice of laws that will be able to compare between certain countries. So, I don't think it's your comment that the law is needed with a lot of changes. I think it is necessary, that some parts be dressed and changed, but I think the basis of the law itself is very well passed. And, in the end, I call on me and the SNSD Club to accept procedure 104, to force both the Council of Ministers and all others who are tasked with doing this, and we have expressed our good will to help them realize their task, given the time, which we have come to accept procedure 104. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15047	Please, we've closed the debate. If you want, but I think really, Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Zorić have answered. So I don't have to deny it. Please, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15048	I, unfortunately, must replicate Mr. Živković. First, because of the fact that there are far-reaching conditions among these 16, which we are not trying to meet from the census, which were relevant on June 28th and will be again in December. So I'd like to see the same bet. And, secondly, even though we had 100% implementation of property laws for the purpose of returning, without implementing amendments to the entity's constitution and decision on the constitutionality of the people, therefore, without being able to hire Hrvat, Bošnjak and others in public enterprises in the RS and the Federation, also, Srbin in the Federation normally, without that possibility, therefore, to hire about the budgets, how they will be employed somewhere else and how they will remain in that implementation. There's nothing since that implementation, then there's no sustainable return. That is why it is a prerequisite for the SDA to speak at all about the census, because I say again, if the taxpayers' funds cannot be paid by those who are not the majority of the entity, they will be employed in the other sector. So you're wrong when you say it's not a prerequisite. In fact, it's a prerequisite for us, and there's no list without it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15049	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15050	I respect the opinion of our chairman that we should not now be replicating the proposer here, etc. However, I was bothered by this one story about how Yugoslavia had handled it well. Mr. Živković, '51. Hundreds of thousands of Hrvat couldn't register as living or as dead, and you think that's good. I believe that neither your nor the Yugoslav law is good enough to avoid national commitment. Whoever has no nation, let him write no. And to me, in my opinion, the law should say it's a mandatory national plea. He who has no nation shall write no. I don't have a nation. And you, as a proposer, were really wrong to write down what anyone said and then the chronologists started replicating. And that's not your job. You can't go through with the procedure, and I'll vote for the procedure and I'll back you up. But your purpose is to explain the shortened procedure, and not, in fact, replicating everyone except Špirić. I think that's where you were wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15051	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. No matter what the context of the debate on the procedure was, it was obvious that this debate could not be avoided, no matter how the result of the vote today was in one tolerated sense. I am now asking MPs to make a statement on the request of Representative Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law on 32th List of Publicities, Households, Apartments and Agricultural Lands in 2005 under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. It's a nice word, Mr. Gligorić, and you should repeat it more often. So, it has the necessary general majority, the RS has an entity from the Federation no. We're going for a match. Here, according to the Rules of Procedure, the College will come forward on this. I'm thanking all the MPs, and I'm proposing for the debate. I'm closing item seven, and I'm proposing a break by 13 o'clock, because we're waiting for two demanding agenda points. Thank you very much. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the Jn Radio-Television System of BiH, in the second reading Just let me say mine and you will get the word. [[PAUZA]] Let me remind you, at the 42nd session, we passed this law in our first reading. I remind you of the report by the relevant Commission on Transport and Communications, which contained 35 amendments adopted by this Commission and submitted to the plenary phase of the amendment by representatives: Ms Sead Palavrić, one amendment challenging the Commission's amendment to Article 9. A bill of law. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, who has submitted six amendments she wants to defend again at the plenary stage. Mr Selim Bešlagić one amendment, which contests the Commission's amendment to Article 23 and Mr Nenad Mišić, which contests the Commission's amendment to Article 23. I ask the BiH Party, which is, by the way, precise and its club to stick to its standards. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15052	Mr. Chairman, it's not about this point, but I have to say, I just want to say that I didn't respond in time to vote for the election of deputies, so on the second item of the agenda, but now I've taken the results of the vote and I've found that by mistake the technique is not a registered vote by Mare Perkanović, a member of the club, who, otherwise, could have decided on the choice of deputies. It was green on the screen, but when it was registered, it wasn't registered. I understand that I did not respond in time, I could react within this point and ask for an individual vote, but I would like to warn you that, indeed, such mistakes in the technique should not happen to us, because especially when there are such serious issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15053	Mr. Novaković, what you said should be taken into account. The process isn't over. So, I mean, he hasn't been elected, and he's coming back to the House no matter how we in the College agree, because it's poslovnički, so it's an opportunity to make a vote both technically and in a different dimension of quality. I think now that you're back at this stage, I don't think it's real. Mrs. Perkanović, please. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15054	...the tape and it's got this list. That changes the situation. I mean, it's not like it's gonna change the situation around here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15055	Mrs. Đurković. Can you give me the ballot of that vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15056	...that's the whole bullet now. This isn't right. That should really be checked out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15057	Can you just give us two minutes to look into the College? Please, since this result of the vote and the procedural state is related to the confirmation of the appointment of a decision as deputy minister, now at the College, means business at the College. We can agree and the decision is confirmed. If we don't agree, Dom will agree again. So, there's a re-vote. Therefore, in that vote, we will ensure that there are no such situations. I wasn't warned about them by the club on time and at this point we're on the second point of the agenda, and we're not contesting, so that there was a man and there would be a situation where the decision could be confirmed. A little thing's going to be expanded. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH in a second reading. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15058	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, it's a little hard to get back to when we had this law in our first reading. However, I will now remind him that he is, like this next one, who will come, indeed, one of the areas, one of the 16 areas where significant progress must be made when it comes to the Performance Study. We also all know what is a condition for the European Commission to adopt the law in accordance with European standards and the Dayton Agreement, to take measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial and editorially independent single state television system in BiH, whose constituent broadcasters, therefore, services will share a common infrastructure and we know that this was our task. So to adopt such a law. After the Council of Ministers offered the text, all of us as the heads of the parties' clubs in this home and the heads of the people's clubs in the House of Peoples, received suggestions from the European Commission and one and the other law, which we are told which segments of the proposal offered by the Council of Ministers do not approve of the standards of the European Union and which the European Commission will not be satisfied and will not give an assessment that BiH, therefore, has a passing mark on this law. I have primarily, by reacting to this act and the act of the Office of the High Representative, formed amendments. There were some of mine. The Commission accepted the largest number and kept it in the report. However, we are left to decide on six more of my amendments, 34 which also meet the assumption that the law is in line with European standards. It's my new six amendments, actually the old ones, which I repeated, the first of which refers to the definition of net revenues from marketing advertising, which, indeed, is missing in the law. The second is about the need for the program to be complementary. The third amendment, fourth and fifth talk about corporate jurisdiction as a new joint legal entity and the sixth talks about the financing of the corporation. I assume you all have these amendments and there's no need for me to explain them again. However, if there is, I will do so on your request. And, secondly, my reaction to this law is, my disputation of Mr Andrić's amendment, which was accepted on the committee, which refers to Article 9, because the text of Article 9 as adopted by Mr Andric, once again, is not in line with European standards and will not satisfy again the condition that we meet the recommendations of the European Commission. That is why I plead, therefore, to accept my disputation of Mr Andrić's amendment, his amendment number VIII to Article 9 and to accept my amendments from 1 to 6 to the proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH. I believe that in this form alone, this law has the opportunity to pass the evaluation and get a positive assessment from the European Commission. I made it clear to you this way that I didn't come up with anything new. I have been trying to come along with Mr Genjac to the European Union directive, which they called on in the comments of the European Commission. I've learned a lot of new things in that area, because I'm not an expert in that area, but what I've done with my profession and my will is that I've made amendments, so I've given them legal form, and I'm all in favour of adopting them so we can finally settle these laws and move on to the next area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15059	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word has Mr. Filip Andriće, let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15060	Before I say what I was going to say when I pressed this button, the application, I would ask Mrs Palavrić what my amendment does not comply with European standards? And I'll read the amendment. Article 9 is amended and read. The BiH Communications Regulatory Agency will assign the frequencies to the RTV services required for the implementation of this law and the Public TV Service Act of BiH. It's a change and I wonder, I ask myself and her and all of us. In which this amendment is not in line with European standards, and another thing that the complete Law on Public TV Service is not in line with the European Conventions on Human Rights, is not in line with the Constitution of BiH, which explicitly says that all three constituent peoples in BiH are equal, the proposed law on the Public TV System and the service do not do so. On the contrary, unfortunately, the Croatian people cannot achieve this bill, I must talk about both laws, because they are connected, cannot achieve their rights, which are given to the Serb people and Bosniak people through the RS TV service and the Federation of BiH's tv service. With this, our relationship with this law is conditioned whether my amendment to the RTV service of BiH will be accepted, and in that case this law would also be acceptable for us, 35 if this amendment would not be accepted, then this law for the HDZ Club of BiH is indeed unacceptable, probably for the other hrvat MPs here and also for the Croatian people. So don't expect our support for these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15061	Mrs. Palavić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15062	First of all, I want to make it clear that I am not going to talk about the service law at this time, but when we talk about the system, I think it is incorrect to talk about the threat of any nation, because neither the Radio Television of the RS must be an exclusive service of the Serb people or the Radio Television of the Federation of BiH is the service of the Bosniak or Croatian people, but it is the equal use of all three languages of the constituent peoples. In contrast to the standards of Article 9 as adopted on Mr Andrić's proposal, what we know about the state we are and how much we can and how much can be achieved by the BiH broadcaster at this time. The European Commission insists that, therefore, it is standard for us, that there is one TV station and two radio stations for the entire BiH territory, as states and that there are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15063	Please, who brings the laws here, Mrs. Palavrić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15064	I'm saying, Mr. Andrić asked me what he wasn't into about European standards. If through the Performance Study, Europe has set a standard for us and said that the European Commission's delegation to BiH will specify it, then it is a standard for us. That's how I understand it. So we are passing laws, which I want to meet European standards and the European Commission. If we don't want no problem, then it's not meeting European requirements. So, we bring them, but, indeed, can anyone at this time in BiH have more services than this law proposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15065	We have two replicas. I apologize to Mrs. Palavrić for the intervention. But I think that, however, we here should be focused on the role of Parliament and the adoption of laws and that I must warn the MPs. Mr. Zorić, then Mrs. Milićević. Please, for a moment. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15066	I actually have to say that I can't accept that someone remembered that right now they need some extra standards and it's unacceptable that someone remembered that we need to fix the laws, sign the amendments, which someone else wrote. I think this Parliament has enough power to bring out the best solutions on its own and that there is no need for apriories to accept what someone has set for us as the best. Secondly, as for the standard, we once had the first raps on this law, here are clearly asked questions to Mr Brankudokić, and we have confirmations of 36 Councils of Europe that this law, the bill we have received before this Parliament, is in line with the standards of the Council of Europe. What standards we now pursue when at the last point of the agenda we say is according to European Union standards that we do not need a census, but we are not for it yet. Gentlemen, the bill is in line with the Council of Europe's charters and it's acceptable, and what you're imposing is some of the higher goals, and we'll talk about them after the census. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15067	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15068	Well, my replica is that a colleague of mine filed amendments and then if someone told her they weren't good, she'd pull them out, but only someone. Here, I tell her they're not good and we'll see if she pulls them back. And as far as the Eurap sanders are concerned, I'm surprised I'm never a signer of those European amendments. I'm really surprised, and why I can't sometimes convince Europe that I'm European thinking. As far as European standards are concerned, when it comes to something that the international community cares about, it convinces us so is the solution in Europe, so take it, when we show it, so fine, we accept, we have voted everything you asked for, and the law on television comes and we say, "Be careful, 40 thousand Nijemac in Belgium have television." These are European standards. Ha, you're far from Europe. So, I don't want these gentlemen from the international community to double standards or we're going to rewrite European solutions. Should we rewrite European solutions, shall we rewrite the Constitution of Switzerland? No, like Switzerland, it's a back-up state. That's no good. We need, we have two services, two TVs, federal and RS. She's right, she's a colleague, it's not a TV set by the Serbian people, it's a TV set by the RS in which Srbin are dominant, run by the Republika Srpska. In the Federation, it's the other way around. It's the FBiH TV, where nine Bošnjak and eight others sit in the Federation government. We can do whatever we want to talk about here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15069	With a veto in the House of Peoples on vital national interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15070	But why is there no veto in the government, please don't enter my word. I know what I'm saying. I'm talking about the government. I'm not talking about Parliament. I'm talking about the government, and if you have something to say, feel free to tell Mr. Džaferović, for a stenogram to know who I'm talking about. So, it is the fact that nine Srbin are sitting in the RS, and in the Federation of BiH of 17 members of the 9 Bošnjak government. And it's clear to everyone what this is about, except for whoever's ruling. So it's not clear to you that you rule in the Federation. I, wherever I have in the municipal council, now there have been elections, wherever I have one more HDZ boasts that he has won. Looks like we're not normal, we didn't win if we had more than 50%. And here, Bošnjak, or the SDA, claim the days of power of one who has over 50% of the members of the government. Well, you have the protection of vital national interest, but that's all we have. We're not going to talk here about the Federation's Rules of Procedure and the Federation's Houses. It's about television. I will support, now that I have answered my word, I will never speak of this again, so I will refuse 37 of all these amendments, and I will not attend another of this disgrace, and I will remain in the first law, unless the Philip's amendment passes, I call on the other law to invite all Hrvat to come out so as not to attend this disgrace and the shame of the Parliamentary Assembly, where one people, whose constitution guarantees equal rights, has no right. So, not equal, but no right to attend, and it is a shame that it is happening in a country that hopes to be in the European Union, that a nation, whose constitution, has just guaranteed all rights, has no right in this BiH, nor in its letter, nor in its education, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15071	There goes the debate Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15072	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, on behalf of the club, want to express our position, which is that both of these laws, the proposal on the public radio system and service should be accepted by the opinion of the Commission, namely the fact that the Council of Ministers or the competent ministry and Minister Dokić, proposed and took care of a modern law and, of course, standards, which implies this area. The Commission also had that in mind. Our competent Commission for Transport and Communications, which also had the opportunity to consider and make known the amendments tabled. Therefore, I am saying this for both laws, that if I did not report later on to the service, it would be good to accept the opinion of our commission and this way, and this time that we might lose practical use of that, if one of the MPs is unsatisfactory, we would have the right of course to make a statement about their amendments, but it is better to pass the law than to question it, because this wet area is not regulated by law and it would be good to think about, any amendments and additions to the law, which now have amendments. I think that way we could solve this issue, because speaking to our colleagues, everyone thinks that we're going to spend a lot of time in a debate on these two bill proposals. If we estimate that this law has passed one procedure, that there has been enough time to take care of all the standards and that we can have a modern and quality law. At this point, I appeal to Members to support what the commission and many amendments have adopted that have become an integral part of the text of this law. And that's how we'd cut our time short. There would be a good law, and I would suggest that MPs, in fact, who have tabled the amendments, withdraw their amendments afterwards and come practically to a statement on the law. Here, that's a suggestion. We're trying to be constructive from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15073	Thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15074	Mr. Chairman, my colleagues, I must say that I am a member of the Communications Commission and that we have discussed these laws more strongly. When we ended up, look out, there was a debate on that committee that we needed everyone to sacrifice. However, when the law came to Parliament, I saw that Mr Mišić had submitted a supplement, or an amendment to the law under this member of funding, a return to the proposal 38 which was before, and on the commission was changed and I then submitted the amendment. I would like to say that I would be very happy to vote for the Commission's amendments, the Commission's proposal, and, if we agree, I would like to withdraw my amendment, so it seems to me that the Commission has made a great effort. I think that's something to be appreciated. However, it is the right of every MP to submit amendments and, I say, if there is a decision on my amendment, if Mr. Mišić withdraws, because there was no, it seems to me that Mrs. Palavrić's remarks on this amendment, I am ready to withdraw my amendment to this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15075	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Mišić. Here you go. Please report in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15076	Very brief chairman. I agree, if Bešlagić withdraws his amendment, I also withdraw my amendment and that we go to the solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15077	Thank you very much, Mr. Mišić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15078	I thank the chairman and, if it will seem quite logical that I suggested this at the beginning, but the discussion so far gives me the right to perhaps propose something right now. The public broadcasting system and the public radio-television service are part of one package, and it would be logical for us to hold a debate on both sides of the debate before the proposals that were related to the debate, i.e. the ongoing adoption of the law which is the next item of the agenda. In that sense, I would suggest that we conduct a debate on this other law, so that, yes, we can eventually see in which direction we will go with a statement on amendments laws, possibly some new proposals, etc. I appreciate that it would be useful to hold a debate now and on the proposal for a Law on Public Television Service, the more some solutions are conditioned under the previous law, that is, this point of regret has been the subject of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15079	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, but I think that the debate, mostly, was carried out that these are amendments now and that we should stick to the procedure, but here, if there is a need, we can also declare this proposal. And I don't think we're gonna waste any time. The debate has already been concluded here and it is sublimated and what is related to the next item of the agenda. If you can accept it, and if you want us to plead, I won't run away from it. I think the mood in the House is going in this order. So now we're going to move on to a plea. I haven't seen Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15080	I apologize for calling again, but I expected to hear from the Minister or someone else on behalf of the Proposer, because I was on the committee when the amendments were being discussed. The Commission accepted only those amendments, which were requested by the Ministry of Communications. I want an answer to the question before I make a statement on the amendments. What is the purpose of the joint legal entity of the corporation three services, if he will not do what I propose in my amendments. So, that all the resources, the digital platform, the emissions structure will be in the corporation, that it will not manage the assets, the technical resources, the advertising, and what is the reason not to accept amendment VI that regulates corporate financing, because it can indeed, ad-hoc predict its psolation, if we do not act in the way I suggested in the amendment? How will he know what to do next year? I ask the President to provide an opportunity, and if you have not even denied the Minister formally to explain to us why this is unacceptable, if he still thinks it is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15081	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. I didn't deny the word. If the Dominister wants a word, he'll get a word whenever he wants. Mr. Dokić, Minister of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15082	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will come from those remarks whether the law is in spirit with European standards or not. Instead of my comments, I will read to you what a group of experts of the Council of Europe, who organized a round table in the Holiday Inn, attended by members of the Communication Commission of this home. In the part about general comments, I'll read the whole part. Experts generally praised this draft and said that it is generally in line with relevant European standards, respecting this assessment, experts stressed that it is of great importance to ensure the independence of public radio television services, I stress, public radio-television services and their editorial independence, without political interference. In this context, Article 4 of this Service Act fully defines what is the editorial independence and independence of each service, and in order not to have any controversy about the issue, this member is completely copied from the recommendation of the R96/10 Council of Europe Ministerial Commission and you follow in your text, and I will read you that recommendation. So in that recommendation is Article 4. see how it is within the law. So, this means that defining the programming scheme, that is, what means is the independence of radio-television services, concepts and production of programs, editing and presentation of news and topicals, organisation of activities and services, recruitment of employment and management of staff within services, buying and renting of goods and services, handling of financial resources, preparing and implementing budgets, negotiating and preparing and signing of legal acts related to the operation of services, prescribing services in the legal post-opportunity, also in relation to third parties. Why many of the amendments submitted by Mrs Palavrić were accepted, I mean over 26-27, and 5-6 were not accepted. All those who have not derivated these principles are 40 accepted. Those who are in collegiate with these principles are not accepted. So these 5 or 6, which are not accepted, they define these basic principles, which we have set out in Article 4. I, as far as I know how to make the law, members who come behind those who have already been defined cannot define what is already set. So that's the basic reason and I really don't need to comment on any individual. The public corporation has a series of powers, and I assure you that it is a major step in relation to what we had so far in its jurisdiction, among other things, complete functioning, i.e. the management of transmission infrastructure and digital platform, and nowhere else you have what would have adopted these amendments, one amendment would mean that this corporation is managing the camera, with the office space, with the office, it's completely contrary to the basic definitions that Evorpa recommends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15083	I thank Minister Dokić. We're done arguing. We're moving on to an amendment statement. Unlike the preamble, when I read what amendments are in circulation, we now have a situation where Mr. Selim Bešlagić withdraws an amendment challenging the Commission's amendment to Article 23, as well as Mr Nenad Mišić, who also submitted an amendment challenging the Commission's amendment to Article 23. So, we will plead on the amendments submitted by Mrs. Seada Palavrić. First amendment, which contests the Commission's amendment to Article 9. A bill of law. Please state the amendment to Mrs Palavrić, which challenges the Commission's amendment to Article 9. A bill of law and vote now. So the amendment doesn't have a general majority and it's not accepted. We are moving on to a package of six amendments, which Mrs Palavrić again defends at the plenary stage. The first is Amendment I to Article 2. A bill of law. You have all the amendments in front of you, please let us plead in line. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the So Amendment I to Article 2 is not accepted. We move on to the Declaration on Amendment II to Article 4 of Mrs. Seada Palavrić. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. So, with 16 votes against, and 13 for, I find that the House of Representatives did not accept amendment II by Mrs. Seada Palavrić. We move to the Declaration on Amendment III to Article 6. A bill of law. I ask the House to declare its vote on Amendment III to Mrs Palavrić on Article 6. Vote now. With 17 votes against 12 in favour, I agree that Amendment III, Mrs. Seada Palavrić, on Article 6. The bill was not accepted. 41 We move to a statement on Amendment IV of Mrs. Seada Palavrić to Article 12. A bill of law. I ask the House to declare by voting on Amendment IV to Article 12. Vote now. I find that with 17 votes against, 13 for, this is the result of the vote, the House of Representatives did not accept amendment IV to Article 12 of Mrs. Seada Palavrić Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio-Television System. We move to the Declaration on Amendment V to Article 13. A bill of law. I ask the House to declare by voting Amendment V to Article 13 of Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Vote now. With 16 votes against, 13 for. I would like to conclude that Amendment V to Article 13. The proposal for a law, submitted by Mrs Palavrić, was not accepted and we move on to the statement on Amendment VI to Article 14. A bill of law. I ask the House to declare Amendment VI to Article 14. A bill of law. Vote now. I agree that with 16 votes against, 13 for, amendment VI of Mrs. Seada Palavrić to Article 14. The bill was not accepted. That concludes our statement on the amendments. The word is for Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15084	15 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15085	I'm setting a 15-minute recess at the request of the SDA Representatives Club. Gentlemen, let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] Please check your cards. We move to a vote on the bill's proposal, which is an integral part of the commission's report in the second reading. I ask the House of Representatives to declare the draft law on BiH's Public Television System in a second reading. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. The service warns me to wait. Tell us when we can. We have a quorum, we can decide. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal for a law on BiH's Public Television System in a second reading. Gallate now. So I find that with 13 votes for, 11 against, the proposal for a law on the public radio television system of BiH, it is not accepted in the second reading. 11 votes in, 13 against. He doesn't have the general majority, and he doesn't have the entity. So I agree that the proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH was not accepted at the House of Representatives in the second reading. Moving to point 9. Ad.19. Proposal for a Law on Public Radio Television Service BiH, in second reading 42 I would like to remind you that the proposal for this law has been adopted by the 41st session in the first reading. The Commission's report contained 20 amendments, adopted by the commission. During the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by Sead Palavrić, one amendment, which again defends at the plenary stage and Mr Filip Andrić, also one amendment that defends again in the plenary phase. Yesterday, we received amendments from Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, who called for Article 94(3) to point out new aspects, so the opinion is that the College is of the opinion that these amendments, too, Mrs Hadžiahmetović, are entering into the procedure equally. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15086	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, esteemed guests, the public works, it seems to me that it is an important and other law, which has been insisted on both outside and trying to create an atmosphere within BiH, to reach legal projects. It činimiti that the statement showed something, which earlier, when it only happened in the opposite sense, was condemned by both the international community and the internal political structures. I must say that the MPs of the RS have supported this law, and if we are aware that it is not ideal, that it is their weaknesses, but I think it is very good to get the legal text. I also think that this second law, and since it's about the laws in the package, I assume that the fate of this law will be identical. I'm sorry we couldn't get the strength to pass this first law. And, as far as the SNSD Club is concerned, we will contribute as much as this first to vote in favour of the laws. There are no ideal legal projects. We need to be prepared to adopt laws and get better legal texts through the change procedure. If we split up like this on the Federation and the RS even vote for and the other one vice versa, I'm afraid we're not on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15087	I thank Mr. Špirić. Who wants another word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15088	Dear Chairman, I must say that the SDS Club and this law will be on the same line as the previous law. So we will support the text of the law, which was adopted on the commission. I also want to say that not adopting the past law, and probably this as it stands, will probably lead to a very characteristic situation, in which BiH may be left without these laws. Of course, BiH can get these laws by imposing a high representative. I sincerely hope it doesn't come to this, at least I shouldn't, but I have to say that the SDS Club will, in future on this project, which we've been working on now and we won't vote in the future for any project that's contrary to the project that hasn't been adopted today. We must make it perfectly clear that we will support the Council of Ministers project, which is future and neither. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15089	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who wants to move on? Mr. Petar Kunić, then Mr. Filip Andrić, then Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15090	Your Honor, I would also like to say, very decidently, that our club will not accept any concessions when it comes to this law and that is why we can be expected to have one stalemate, that we will very hard to get to this law. Often in this House, there are some things that are being broken, but I think that the RS in general on this law has given quite concessions, quite concessions and had a great degree of understanding, and, of course, MPs who have followed the interest in this direction have voted for this one, we will also vote for this next law, but I think that, looking for concessions on one side constantly, on the other hand do not seek, I think it is not correct and every trend in this direction has its end and I must tell you that we will remain very consistent, as far as these laws are concerned, that we will not make concessions in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15091	Thank you, too. Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15092	I thank Mr. Chairman, in the debate on amendments to the previous law, a lot of fellow MPs said they would make a sacrifice, give up the amendment so the law would go easier to spend less time and that it would go easier. I have to say the same thing that I have long since given up who knows how much, out of the ten long ones, I've spared the commission, and I've spared this home, but these are amendments that would really be welcome as repairs, but they don't matter how many amendments I've renewed towards home. That's what I'd like to appeal to my fellow representatives for one understanding. This is an important mandman, essentially bringing these laws into line with the BiH Constitution, with the European conventions and bringing the Croatian people to an equal position in BiH with the other two peoples. Nothing special, we're no longer looking for anything with this amendment. If this amendment passes, if you do not accept it for us, it is absolutely acceptable and the system law and the service law, and if this amendment is not accepted, then it is a clear message to the Croatian people who are their position in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15093	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15094	In fact, I wanted to look back at the comments that I don't think were necessary because they came after the vote on the system, but when they did, I also want to say that I don't think anyone in this country has made a concession, I think BiH 44 states are equal and I think it would be good if we all started to make concessions. So let's not expect that only one party in the future will seek to meet 16 conditions and whatever is done at the state level, but that is a concession. Gentlemen, you bear responsibility for the laws, because such laws as they were before don't meet what we need for the Performance Study, don't take us to Europe and don't object to the Federation and the RS, etc. I need the state as much as it needs for Mr Špirić and Mr Kunić and Mr Novaković no less. Let's do the same for her.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15095	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong, incorrect quote Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15096	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of plowing and calling anyone. It is the right of MPs, of course, to decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to warn you that it is not good at important, system-based state laws to divide into RS and the Federation, it is neither law nor legislation. Just remember when sometimes there were 11 MPs from the RS, and what signs they went on. Republika Srpska is not for this law. Members of the RS, etc. And I'm afraid I'm not, I'm not the kind of man who wants to divide like that, and I don't give up on such divisions, but we also have to take responsibility together for the unadopted law. It's an obligation of the state. Please, gentlemen, it had to be done, if there was room for a compromise for two months, we delayed this and the commission, then twenty, then thirty days. dakel, there's no room. Niko one is willing to compromise more than what has been done and what people who love the state would adopt the law and work on a compromise on change. So, that's all I wanted to warn you about, and I'm very interested in whether it's going to be written and, if I, of course, don't want the Federation MPs, so you know how we feel when we work here in the interest of the state, when the title of the RS is adopted in the morning. Niko one makes a difference between a party or a state dimension. So, I just wanted to point out, without the intention of hurting anyone, I take away his right to decide what kind of thoughts, and I think we've done a lot of damage to the state. Many of the laws we passed are not ideal and, look, when we oppose these laws, and I sometimes when I resisted, it was logical that after making adjustments, amendments to the law. Niko of us did that. Because neither the laws are the product of our thinking, or even of our purpose. Well, in that sense, I really don't invite anyone to replicas. I'm sorry we didn't come up with a good legal solution. That was the purpose of my debate, not to accuse anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15097	I thank Mr. Špirić. I think we should reduce these observations, because there was an opportunity around some of the other fundamental laws to show this principle, so I've warned on many occasions. That's why I don't want to repeat the same story at all today. Mr. Novaković had a replica, so Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15098	I want you to, I found out one, it seems to me the hard truth from Mrs. Seada Palavrić's statement. 45 Namely, I found out that this was supposed to be a concession from the Bosniak side. How can the concession of the Bosniak side be amendments to the European Commission? Dear gentlemen, did the European Commission take the amendments to the SDA or did the SDA take the amendments to the European Commission and is this now voted by the European Commission or did the SDA vote? Please, if these are the concessions of this nature, then I am, indeed, then it is certain that this act has been agreed with the European Commission. And if that's true, it's a very, very difficult fact. I'm sorry if that's the case, and I have to say that after this, I feel like a lot of things are clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15099	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Zorić, Mr. Duraković after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15100	I have to comment on Mrs Palavrić's findings and if yesterday I tried to point out some facts, which she was very skillful or out of ignorance of these things, too. Mrs. Palavić, you must know that you live in a federal state, that there are two federal units, that are the Federation and the RS and that the Federation and the RS have their powers and that state powers, because it has divided the powers of government between state and entity and that is reality. Please, it's a reality and we have to figure it out sometime. Who now owns the information. They belong to the entities. Read the Constitution, you're a lawyer. You can also read if that is not enough concession in terms of the compromise of this law. It's certainly a state-level maximum, too. That there is a unique service, that there is a service of one republic, one entity. That's why I don't like the proposal of the Croatian side. Why don't I like it? Because they're looking for a service at BiH level. Let them seek in the Federation, for the Fedeacija is their entity. That's where you need to look for your channel, and that's where you need to look for a solution. Therefore, we must look at the legal aspect when we pass laws. Well, that's enough here please, she says you're not for the state, you're not, I am for the state, but I belong to a federal unit who chose me to be the House of Representatives of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15101	I thank Mr. Kunić. Please stick to the agenda and the arguments, because there would be a lot of answers to these requests from the Croatian side. Don't reduce us to a narrow space. We fought dearly to get that stereotype out of the way, and we removed it, and the better it spread to everyone and to you and to us. Mr. Zorić for the replica, then Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15102	I'm not into replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15103	All right, then, Mr. Duraković. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15104	I answered, and if I swore I wouldn't do this, but really, first of all, Mr. Kunić, and the rest of them, this Parliament is not a market. What concessions? In the name of whom do you speak? I don't know you didn't mention the party you represent and speak for the RS. Republika Srpska now gives some great concessions and has some threshold of roast which you will not cross. This is the BiH state parliament and let's look at the state interest. And Zorić, as he whispers to me, he cannot watch BiH television. Well, of course you can't. You don't feel the state of BiH as your own, but it's already being imitated. Shame on you. Enough of your nationalists... you Jović, it's a shame on you. Oh, let it go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15105	Please, I'm going to implore the session here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15106	Come on, break it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15107	I mean, you got your word to Mr. Duraković. Niko one's bothering you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15108	I declare that there are no concessions or concessions to any kind of drink settlements here, but to try to see if the bill is valid, whether it needs to be completed, whether it needs to be improved in amendment and whether there is something in this sense that we should do together. I, for example, appreciate the initiative of MPs and MP Filip Andrić. It basically comes down to the fact that BiH radio-television programmes should be tailored to the needs of individual constitutive nations, etc. It all comes down to the fact that this broadcast of these programmes separates itself into three different channels. Well, it's from the point of view of language equality, maybe at first sight it's good. It's just, Reverend Andrić, since I'm doing something about it, the ether is more saturated than down on the ground. First, the question is whether there are frequencies and the ability to broadcast these channels in three languages, Croatian, Serbian and Bosnian, in BiH at all. That's the first thing I need to say is a technical and material financial question. Another is that from the point of view of some rationality, why can't it be a suggestion that every diary or all those shock shows, one day in Croatian, one day in Serbian, one day in Bosnian. Perhaps it would be more practical and then we could find a very easy compromise, to represent the absolute equality of all three languages. And all three, as the constituent people say. So you can talk about it, but not to say here now that someone is making concessions of this kind or that kind. No one should make concessions. At the end of the season BH TV is already working and I will tell you Jović if I say that I am ashamed to say that the predominant Croatian language on that channel is predominant. Even if I spoke Croatian when you didn't even know how to speak. So you just said
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15109	Please, Jović, you'll get the word 47.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15110	So don't interrupt me first, please. I wasn't interrupting. Replica, what else is there? So I'm going to go over this proposal that we have on the benches and see if and how and how in the first or second reading we're going to determine about it and things like that, and not that we're talking about how someone here has been giving concessions. Finally, no one here is authorized to grant concessions or concessions on behalf of the BiH state. I guess we are MPs of the state parliament and I guess we should primarily defend the interest of the BiH state. And someone said whether Kunić is a federal state, not she's called the BiH state, not the Federation of BiH, and don't even out what you're denying others, you're looking for yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15111	Mr. Kunić, please, if you ask for a word, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15112	Constitutional nations should be the same in Republika Srpska, as in the Federation, with the same rights and the same obligations, and it cannot be a Federation in the Federation that is a sovereign and internationally recognised state under the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina and does not write the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15113	Thank you very much, Mr. Duraković. This was your replica. You've replicated and mentioned people who weren't directly involved and this one, you're right, it's not controversial, I didn't interrupt you or anything. Well, I think you're looking, but your reaction to Mr. Zorić deserved to be interrupted, but I didn't, and I will never interrupt you because I respect you, but we need to find out now that we're having this debate and that we all contribute to ending this debate. I can interrupt the session, I have a right to the Rules of Procedure for a short time until a little passion calms down, but here's my idea of whether we're going to work or not, I think. Mr. Vinko Zorić, here's after the replica of Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15114	I would like to see if counterpart Belkić can appreciate that I say so briefly, because after the break, I expect Mr. Duraković's apology. I said here this one, though, not in the Mircophone but I said and I stand behind that I can't watch BiH TV. And the answer for me is that I don't like BiH and that's why I don't watch that TV. I invite Mr. Duraković, of course, after he apologizes to come to me, I'll buy him a table and a drink, and set me up on BiH TV. If that works, he's got the gift he wants from me. And I taught Mr. Duraković my children this way, when they told me they didn't like soup, you know what soup, soup. I told them soup doesn't have to be loved but it needs to be consumed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15115	Replica, Mr. Duraković, here we go with the replicas and a break of 10 minutes. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15116	For what it's worth, Mr. Zoruć, I apologize. I don't go into the secrets of your love, really, but it's your statement, and it's good that you've confirmed that you won't and you don't like to watch BH TV, and here we're talking about installing that television. Well, you don't have to. Love is weird. I can't make you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15117	Ten minutes, thank you very much. Dear MPs, we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We are now on the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Public TV Service. We have a replica of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović, please welcome Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15118	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I think that my performance towards MP Duraković was the only possible way for a European type to say to his nebuloss, his humiliation, the demeaning of the representatives of a people and people in this House. So from now on, please protect against such pests the people who want to work honestly in this country. The one who loves BiH then loves its citizens, its institutions and advocates working on the rights of equality between people and citizens and peoples in the country, and not the way we had it here today, so in order to clarify my speech, I would say that I am speaking to Mr Duraković because he addressed me directly, in the 1980s, Mr Duraković, you told him that you spoke Croatian before me. You and your party kicked me out of the party in the '80s because I spoke Croatian in a shameful solution and wrote it. Whenever you want, I'll make you a solution. It is said that it is BiH with a bridge agreement and that it cannot be used Croatian. And that's the party you wrote on then. I thank God today I don't belong to that time, and thank Bog neither my child nor my grandson will belong. Such men will no longer decide the fate of my family. The second thing I want to do for you is that if the gentleman who is here today said that he can't watch TV like we have in BiH for technical reasons, then no one asked a question about love, but that country hates that man because he didn't create technical conditions and hates that end. And that's the rebellion in us that is. So earth, turn to all people that we love you like a mother, not that you reject us. And we don't let that go. That's the other thing I wanted to say. And another, respected friends in 1945, and we always say that history is a teacher of life. At the border of Austria and Slovenia, all known, civilians and soldiers of the Croatian 220 thousand, 7% of Hrvat came out of the war of the other world, less than they entered the war. But the whole 50 - year - old thing was about the so - called. The Croatian State. Today we can no longer speak of it as being so-called, and I want to transfer it now to this, then General Aleksandar III wrote a password that the deck needs to be cleaned. Dissident Đilas in New York said that the password meant Hrvat should be killed so that Yugoslavia could live. The Hrvat prisons are full in BiH today. BiH will live, gentlemen, but only with the Hrvat. This isn't the 45th and it won't happen again. The allusions I'm making are clear. I can't have 49 TVs that say they're so-called. hercegbosni. And let's get this over with. Don't let anyone here tell me what my flag is, which is my coat of arms, my people. I don't want anyone telling me I love or I don't love anymore. I don't want that humiliation anymore. And it is no wonder 50% of Croatian children leave this University of Sarajevo after their first year of studies.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15119	Mr. Nijaz Duraković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15120	Mr. Jović, as you tend to insinuate and speak simply an incorrect fact. And you said that in the '80s or 80s, you were thrown out. By the way, I wasn't in any authority of the Communist Union at the time, and you said the party kicked you out because of what you said in Croatian. I repeat that even today you do not know the new Croatian saying, although you are trying very hard, but those years right on the political scene of BiH, the leaders were Hrvat. You can't say that you were disabled because Branko Mikulić was headed and then Ante Budimir, Hrvoje istok, and then Franjo...as interior minister throughout Yugoslavia, so Rudi Kolak as the head of the Federal Assembly, etc. And they all spoke better Croatian than you. And no one was kicked out of the game. It's about that. Secondly, you always mention Blajburg and the sacrifice of the Croatian people. That's right. Of course, that's what historians say about it now, but he was Jasenovac, there was Clay, there was a lot of other things. My Bog, it was a revolution and you can't generally accuse, but at the head of that revolution was a Hrvat called Josip Broz. My Bog, and you're now talking about that you couldn't feel like a hrvat, that you couldn't speak Croatian, which is absolutely a notorous lie, because I'm going to list you hundreds and hundreds of thousands, take my texts from the '80s, and you'll see that I wrote so-called. Croatian not so-called Croatian. A new word, me, with verbs on...and so on. And with no archaic words, of course I wasn't talking about the ocular pants whether or not it was about the melloclis, but I was talking about the way it was said literaryly whether it was. So, a newbie... and a standard language term. All the Balkan liguinists of the former Yugoslavias argue that in the former area that involves both Serbian and Croatian and Bosnian and Montenegrin languages, in fact, only the standard language variants. As we understand each other well here in this House, so I guess there's the right for each of these to speak in their standard language terms, and that's ultimately constitutionally sanctioned. And I really don't see any reason to falsify history and deal with a whole 60-year-old historian over my back and my smallness. Neither was I tossing you out, nor was I tossing you into the party, for if I had wondered anything, you certainly wouldn't have been there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15121	Please, you'll get the replica is not controversial, but here you are, and we've exceeded the time frames for both. I'm begging you, so now you've all got a chance to say, to get things on the agenda and work. Here you go, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15122	When a university professor is unargumented, an unknowingly Latin job that doesn't belong to him, it looks ugly. Mr. Duraković, I want to tell you right now, there were never pants in Croatian, so it can't be an occupier, because that word is originally from the Greek language of pants. You might know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15123	Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Please focus. Who thinks that today was a chance for us all to talk, let's all say, don't go over one line now, let's go back.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15124	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15125	We thank Mr. Potočnik. Who wants another word? So, we have reports, so Mr. Vinko Zorić, Tihomir Gligorić is whether, a mistake, Mrs. Seada Palavrić and Mrs. Azra, means Mr. Vinko Zorić and Mrs. Azra Hadržiahmetović. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15126	Here I wanted very much about this law, especially about Mr. Andrić's amendment. I find it a little degutant that others are convincing this club and think that this club and the legitimate representative of one constitutive people in BiH, uh, what's good for us. I was recently with Mr Pamuk and Mr Mišić, at the meeting of the Central European Initiative in Ljubljana, which was on 16th, 17th and 18th September, and we discussed above roma rights in the Member States of the Central European Initiative. Believe me, there are much more rights for these peoples than for the Rom than Filip seeks this amendment for the Croatian people in BiH. Is it possible, then, that we want what minorities have in these countries, or which, and we boast that we will bring it to BiH. And of course we need to bring and protect minorities. I just have so much to say about this law, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15127	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. The word is Mrs. Ahra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15128	Thank you. I'll probably be in the usual discussion that's been conducted so far and I need to explain the amendments I've submitted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15129	Please let us respect these ladies and at least give them a chance. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15130	I didn't hear what the intruder was, maybe it's better if it is. I've submitted two amendments. One of the reasons one of the members of the proposed law has already been overcome here. In particular, Amendment I refers to Article 35, which by transitional and final provisions regulates that TV BiH, TV as it stands here, will broadcast in a transitional period, and then lists what, will have priority in using the network, etc. Since Bosnia and Herzegovina's radio television has already received its frequency, this mammandman or the contents of this amendment, this article has already been overcome. I therefore propose that Amendment I be deleted from Article 35. Amendment II refers to the short name for the BiH Public Radio Television Service in this proposed akona text, a BHRT keybinding has been proposed. The amendment stands here with the proposal, the short name of the BiH Public Radio Television Service, BHB. In an explanation that is quite detailed here for all MPs who have received the amendments because I hear that some of the technical breakdowns have probably not yet received these amendments, the interdepartmental one says that and I will remind you that BHRT is quite long, that it could not have drawn out an effective keybinding that, both visually and visually and pronunciation would have been simpler, more popular, simpler for translation, especially for translation into English that is common in this branch. In addition, I will remind you that Europe's most famous public services have BBS, RAI, ARD, ORF therefore with three letters, that, with the impracticality of the BHB pronunciation, the name of our country is actually read on both sides. It is simpler in the visual sense, it has great possibilities for creation and it is simpler for the English language that I repeat again, usually in this branch and has its meaning in English, Bosnianhercegic brot casting service. Therefore, Amendment II refers to a change in the name of a shortened service name which is much more practical, more visual and I think it would be much more suitable for all future actions, especially media, visual, or audio, etc. to which this service would be engaged. So two amendments relating to the content of the proposed law and another comment. With respect to all the three languages in which we receive bill proposals, i.e. in which laws are published, I must say that the version of the Serbian language, i.e. the Cyrillic letter, contains one absurdity indeed. Teleshoping is an English word and English is written in Latin rather than Cyrillic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15131	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Ms. Seada Palavrić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15132	I just want to look back on Mrs Hadžiahmetović's amendment and I think her first amendment has its place, that it really is about new circumstances and that it should be accepted. However, when it comes to the second amendment and the abbreviations and the name of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Radio Television, I must remind myself that the Commission has accepted my amendment to Article 4 which accepted the Radio Television Bosnia and Herzegovina and BHRT. So 52 to be disputed then the amendment had to be disputed, in fact, the commission's report that was accepted. And I think it would really create a lot of problems then, especially that it should be implemented through the whole law, because I have consistently done so and it has been accepted by representatives of the Council of Ministers and by the Commission. And with that, I think the second amendment is unacceptable and the first one's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15133	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? No more. A final debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Public TV Service of BiH in the second reading. We're moving on to an amendment statement. We follow the order of articles on which the amendments are tabled. The first amendment of Mr Filip Andrić, Amendment I to Article 9. Proposal for a law on the Public TV Service of BiH. I ask the House of Representatives to declare the amendment I to Article 9. Mr. Filip Andrić's bill. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, So, an amendment with five votes to, 25 against, four abstentions, doesn't have the required majority and isn't accepted. We move on to the Amendment and Mrs. Seada Palavrić to Article 19. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service. I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal, on the amandman I to article 19 proposed by Mrs Seada Palavrić. Vote now. So 13 votes in, 17 against. Amabndman doesn't have the necessary majority, he's not accepted. We move on to the amendments submitted by Mrs Hadžiahmetović, amandman i to Article 35. I ask the House to make a statement on the amandman I to article 35 proposed by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Vote now. The amendment has a general majority. No entity. So there's no consent, but we went straight to consent, so now we're pleading in the second round, but we all vote. Okay. So, please, those who are against voting. Vote now. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European We reiterate the vote on the amandman I to the article by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. 53 I ask the House of Representatives to declare themselves, that those who are against it may be spoken, for this is the second round of voting. Vote now. So the amendment was not accepted because Republika Srpska's entity had 11 votes against more than 2/3. We move on to a statement on amandman ii to the 4th Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. I'm asking the House to make a statement on the amandman. Vote now. So the amandman didn't get the general majority and it wasn't accepted. That's how we ended up making a big deal about the amendments. Mr. Vineko Zorić asked for the word before his statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15134	I'm on behalf of the club looking for a one-minute break until we get out, let the farce continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15135	You'll understand that I want to be a minute free with my club. And the sequel goes normal. The First Vice-President will hold the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15136	All right, I can get out of my place from here. That's not the problem. So, we are now pleading on this law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The amendments we voted on today were not adopted, they were not accepted. I call upon the House to declare this law. Vote now. I find the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly with 24 votes in favour, with one vote against and five abstentions, with the required entity majority adopted the Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am now giving a two-minute break to invite a colleague chairing to continue this session. Stay put, I'll let you know, let the services inform the chairman. It's a two-minute break. 54 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15137	We have a 10th point ahead, that's Ad.10. The draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's customs policy in the second reading, Law No 01,02-2-70/04 of 29.7.2004 At the 43rd session of the draft law was adopted in the first reading. The Commission sent us a 2.9th report. As you have seen, there have been no amendments, but the commission has found that the drop is not a precise number, so it has improved Article 239. The commission also found that nomotechnical processing of the text of the law should be carried out. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's customs policy. There's no record of a hearing. This is a second reading, no amendments. We declare the proposal for a law on the customs policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the number I read in the second reading. I ask the House of Representatives to plead. Vote now. With 22 votes for, without votes against, 6 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the proposal for a law on customs policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No 01,02-270/04, since 29.7.2004 was adopted in the second reading. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. On the 43rd session of the House, we adopted this bill in our first reading. 2.9. we have received a report from the relevant commission. She's like you've seen her adopt six amendments. In the plenary phase, Sead Palavrić submitted two amendments and one that contests amendment number V of the Commission and one amendment that wants to defend again. I'm opening an amendment debate. Are there any reports? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a statement on the amendments. So the amendment and Mrs. Seade Palavrić who disputed the amendment number V of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Please make a statement about the amandman and Mrs Palavrić, who contests the amendment number V to the proposal for a law on the State Border Service. 55 Please vote now. The amendment has a general majority. No entity. So we're going straight to the opposite vote. Please, since there isn't. So in the second vote, in the second round of voting, the ones who are against it vote. Please vote now. Requesting reenactment. I ask the MPs to plead, those who are against the vote now. So there's not enough 2/3 in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15138	Whose didn't it accept? Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15139	Please, we'll use the technique one more time. Let me know when you can turn it on. One more vote. Only those who are against it vote. Vote now. Well, no, here's what they're asking you now? Well, there are people who claim that for technical reasons and they responded immediately, as it is. No Niko came in from Sead, don't. There was an intervention of a representative who sat and voted constantly and, as I appreciate when you asked, I had to respect it now. Please respect that. The amendment was not accepted. There are 2/3 of the Republika Srpska entity. We move to the Declaration on Amendment I to Article 21. The proposal for the law of Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Please state the amandman and the article 21st Mrs. Seade Palavrić. Vote now. This amendment did not have a majority, a general majority. So I'm saying it wasn't accepted. That concludes our statement on the amendments. Now we move to a statement about the Law as a whole in the second reading. I ask the House of Representatives to make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service in a second reading. Vote now. I therefore conclude that with 28 votes in favour, without votes against and 3 abstentions and enough entity majority, the draft law on the State Border Service and in the second reading was adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the 12th point, that's 56 Ad.12. The proposal for a law on the control of state border crossings in first reading, second reading, I do not apologize this is still the first reading even though we had at the 43rd session of this law in the first reading. At that time, the House adopted a conclusion giving the Commission a 15-day deadline to consider the requirements that have come from the Directorate for Direct Taxation and possibly new amendments and to submit a new report to Dom. The Commission submitted a new report on 24.9 containing 23 amendments adopted by the Commission. The Commission concluded that it had re-admissioned the amendments contained in the Commission's first report and the new 17 amendments submitted in the new deadline in the context of home-defined guidelines. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. I note that we are considering the bill in our first reading. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We declare the proposal for a law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border in the first reading. I'm asking the House to make a statement by voting. Vote now. 29 for, one against, 2 abstentions, enough general and entity majority. There were no amendments. I suggest that Dom plead whether or not we're going to do another reading. Please plead. Vote now. So we unanimously accepted that the proposal for a law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border should be made known in the second reading. There were no amendments. I would also like to make a statement on the proposal for this law and in the second reading. Vote now. I find that, with 28, without votes against and four abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we have accepted the proposal for a law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border and in the second reading. We're going to the 13th point, that's Ad.13. Proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and the distribution of revenue in first reading at the 43rd session adopted the procedure under Article 104. The Commission submitted a report on 24.9. The Commission adopted two amendments. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. 57 I am opening a debate on the bill on payments to a single account and the distribution of revenue in the first reading. Are there any reports? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the Bill of Payments proposal to a single account and the distribution of income in the first reading. I'm asking the House to make a statement about the bill. Vote now. I find that the House with 13 votes in favour, with no votes against and one abstention, has accepted the proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and the distribution of revenues in the first reading. I suggest that there were no amendments to plead whether or not we're going to go to another reading? Vote for second reading now. So we've accepted with 31 votes, one against, and no abstentions and enough entity majority to declare this law in the second reading. Since there has been no amendment in the plenary phase, I ask the House to declare the Bill of Payments in a single account and the distribution of income in a second reading. Vote now. So with 26 votes for, without votes against, five abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we've accepted the Preydlog Law on Payments to a single account and the distribution of income and in a second reading. I thank the MPs and we move on to the 14th point, that's Ad.14. Proposal for a law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in first reading The same as in previous session item 43 adopted procedure 104. The Commission submitted a report to you on 24.9 and adopted two amendments. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing applications or hearings. We move to a statement in the first reading on the proposal for a law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the first reading. I'm asking the House to plead. Vote now. With 30 votes in favour, without votes against and 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the proposal for a law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the first reading. 58 Please state that there has been no amendment and that we will declare ourselves in another reading. Vote now. So we agreed to make a statement in the second reading with 31 votes in favour, with no votes against and one abstention. As no amendments have been made, I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a second reading. Vote now. 28 votes for, without votes against, 4 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the proposal for a law on the financing of non-substantiations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're going to the 15th item of the agenda, that's Ad.15. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text and under (a) the Law on Seed and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) the Law on the Red Cross/Crist of Bosnia and Herzegovina and under (d) the Law on Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina As we pointed out at the beginning of the session, a sub-point has been taken down – a report on the text of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Investments Agency has not yet been completed by the Joint Commission. As you received reports on the text's compliance, the text of the Seed Act and of the fruit material was agreed by the adoption of one amendment, the Law on travel documents, was also in line with the adoption of one amendment and the Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross was in line with the adoption of two amendments. A meeting was held this morning regarding the text of the Missing Persons Act. You've got the report. Consent has been reached. Since all the laws have the consent of the commission, can we declare ourselves in the package, or should we individually? The Secretary of the House proposes individually, and I respect that. I therefore ask the House to declare a report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Seed Law and fruit material of Bosnia and Herzegovina's agricultural plants. I'm asking the House to plead. Vote now. With 31 votes for, without votes against, abstention, we unanimously accepted the Joint Commission's report on the conformity of the text of the Seed Law and the fruit material of Bosnia and Herzegovina's agricultural plants. 59 We move to a statement on the Joint Commission's report on the harmonised text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please plead. Vote now. We unanimously accepted the Joint Commission's report on the harmonised text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents. We move to subpoint c), it is a report by the Joint Commission on the harmonised text of the Law on the Red Cross/Brussels Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make your statement on this report. Vote now. We also unanimously accepted the Joint Commission's report on the harmonised text of the Law on the Red Cross/Brussels Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. And we still have the Joint Commission report on the harmonised text of the Missing Persons Act. Please be made aware of this report. Vote now. And we accepted this report unanimously. I thank the MPs. I agree, therefore, that we unanimously accepted the Joint Commission's report on the harmonised text of the Missing Persons Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 16th point, that's Ad.16. Information from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on internal responsibility I am opening a debate on this information. The College suggests, since there is no one from the Council of Ministers to postpone this debate for the next session. Thank you very much. I think there's a consensus. We don't have to vote. So this debate is going to the next session. Thank you very much. We're going to the 17th point, that's Ad.17. A special report by the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on voter registration issues in order to achieve an active voter's law and the achievement of the passive voting rights of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 2004 municipal elections, you received representatives of the Ombudsmen Special Report. 60 At the session, we were invited by an Ombudsmen representative to attend the session during the review of the report. This morning was Mr. Mariofil Ljubić. He's not here right now. I'm opening a debate on this report. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Please include Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Ćeman on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15140	Thank you very much. Very short. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the Ombudsmen report yesterday, accepted the findings, the evaluations, the proposal for a measure, that is, what should be done and proposed, but we did not combine in the meantime to do a written report on it, but here I will say it very briefly, and I would suggest that in the part in which it is normally the addition of the Election Law, and I will remind you that one election commission working on the addition of the Election Law and in two phases. The first phase was what was already done before the municipal elections and we'll remember what we adopted. And in the second phase, some initiatives, some of which are also placed through this Parliament and others, concern general solutions, are not only characteristic of local elections but also of the electoral system at all. So, in that second phase, access as soon as possible, but that unlike work so far, where the Electoral Commission Working Group worked to move that part of the job actually into the Council of Ministers. I think that such a mood was also in the working group of the Electoral Commission itself and that, in fact, the Council of Ministers prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, if necessary and what should be done for this next phase. So along with this, here is the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the further addition of the Election Law and the conclusion that we have accepted those other proposals and assessments given by the Ombudsmen institution, so I am finishing this report, and once again I ask for the understanding that we have failed to make a written report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-10-12-0.u15141	I thank Mr. Ćeman and also welcome Mr. Mariofil Ljubić Ombudsmen for the human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If he wants to take part, he can. Anybody else want some? Okay. There are no more applications for discussion. I am concluding the debate and I propose that we make a statement on the report, the Special Report of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with this suggestion, that is, the addition given by Mr Ćeman on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Would you please vote now? I agree that with 26 votes for, without votes against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the House of Representatives has adopted the Special Report of the Ombusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on voter registration issues in order to achieve an active electoral right and achieve the passive voting rights of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 2004 municipal elections. Thank you very much. 61 we still have 18 points left, that's Ad.18. Proposal for a decision on Mr Munib Jusufović's term of office, a representative at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, I informed you this morning. You received a motion for a decision during the session. I'm opening the debate. We agreed to that on the Extended College.0 Have there been any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House of Representatives to declare the motion for a decision on Mr Munib Jusufović's mandate, a representative at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. You're voting now. I agree that the House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour, with no votes against and two abstentions and a sufficient entity majority accepted the motion for a decision on Mr Munib Jusufović's mandate, a representative at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank the MPs at 16:00 and 15 minutes, and I conclude the 45th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The next 46th session, as things stand now, will be the 26th of this month. Thank you very much. The session ended at 16.15.
