ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2357	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of the media, I warmly welcome you all and open the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at today's session. Of which 5 of the Bosniak people, 4 of the Croatian people, 5 of the order of the Serbian people, therefore, Mr Branko Zrno is not present at today's session, and I would justify his absence. Thank you very much. For this session, I suggest the following agenda: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, first reading, is proposed by the Election Commission, and 2. The balance of personnel in the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution, according to national principle. I would like to point out here that this is the agenda that we, in fact, set up at the previous session, and we said that the electoral law should be put into debate and try to adopt it by today, because it was necessary to make a decision on elections and we expected that the House of Representatives at yesterday's session would have a debate on this law, which didn't happen. So we wanted our home not to be in a situation where it was too late to make a decision and that your choices or that the election process would be disruptive, which is why, possibly, this house wouldn't pass that law. The second item of the agenda, too, was defined at the last assembly, because at the request of our colleague, Mr Šiljegović, we said that his question would be his and we said that it would be at the first session, which is held after the previous one. It is, therefore, today's session. Here, I am now opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Does anyone come forward for a word based on this agenda? Any objections? Any suggestions for a change and a supplement? So there isn't. Now we'll put on the agenda vote. Vote now. So the agenda was adopted with a total vote of 31 for and 1 was abstentioned. Thank you very much. So the first point of the agenda is 2 Ad.1. The Commission's proposal on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, first reading, is proposed by the Election Commission, in line with the conclusion of the House of Nations adopted at the 20th session of the House of Peoples, held on 6 April 2004, today we are considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. This is the first reading. The House of Representatives is, as I said, not considering this law. There is therefore a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. I'm opening a debate and please, who's calling for a discussion? Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2358	Yeah, this is the first time we've gotten used to... working in this room like in our second term, while we're just getting used to the technique we have. I would like to welcome all present and say that a session of the 22nd session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has just been completed. As a competent, relevant committee, we discussed the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, which is proposed by the Election Commission of BiH. You waited for us a little, but there were reasons for it, all of which happened in some kind of fast deadlines, there were some unexpected moves, but here's because we wanted to bring it all to an end in a sufficient way, I believe our apology will be accepted for the extended work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, we discussed as a relevant committee, as a competent committee, on which we also had a discussion on three proposed amendments to the Proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law to Article 39 to Article 40 and one relating to transitional and final provisions. We have long debated these amendments, in particular the amendment to Article 40 of the Amendment and the amendment to the original article 16.4., the redefining of the earlier article of the ban on political promotion. And, one and the other and the third amendments were supported by an authorised promoter, the present lady from the Election Commission, by not deciding not to declare amendments because of a very important provision, so we choose in an article that regulates the rights of the media to charge or not to charge for election promotion. We have a local election ahead of us. This amendment to the transitional and final provisions, it seems to me, will not be disputed, concerns that the chapter, which regulates this is Chapter XVI applicable in these local elections. Unfortunately, we heard one more thing, which is, today will be a decision to call local elections, which is what we are now talking about not to accept this amendment on transitional and final provisions, provided that this ends the parliamentary procedure would not be applicable. Another provision in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law will not be possible yet, as elections are conducted under the earlier law. We'll probably hear more about this than the present Mrs. Korać. So, in view of this circumstance that we did not, that we discussed it, but that we did not end the debate on amendments, we did not make it clear, regardless of how we received a positive opinion from an authorised applicant, that is, to point 2 of the amendment, which speaks of public electronic media and how this amendment is foreseen. So, we leave time to allow this home to run for constitutional-legal commission to extend the time for amendment to this bill, so that at the next session of the Commission, which you will be informed of by the Secretary of the Commission, we can also discuss what we could not define, because we wanted to reach a consensus on the amendments that we accept to the Election Law. So, 3 we ask that, that the House extends this deadline of amendment to us, that the Rules of Procedure enables us, with your approval and because of the specificity of this issue, to make further separate contacts with the media-based, electronic media authorities, so, Federal TV, RS TV and state television, because we are all concerned by now in the debate in the working group and on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it seems to me that we have ironed out to subdue that word to an adequate standard that satisfies over 100 electronic media in private ownership in BiH. So that's how I'd like to finish my exposure. So I realized that we're just going to have a debate and it's going to be the first reading today. So we don't have to rush. We have plenty of time, but with our debate, with our decisions, therefore, and as soon as possible, on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and one and the other, we encourage it to end as soon as possible, at least around this law, and about others we have not reached, around this law to end parliamentary procedures, to amend and supplement the Election Law, in order to at least be applicable to those referred to in this Article 164 of the original text, or Article 40 of the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2359	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. I would like to ask Mrs. Korać, as representative of the proposal, here we have heard Mr. Filipović, who came out with one proposal, whether the Proposer has any objections to this proposal and what the Proposer is saying. Here you go. We have to film you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2360	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, the Proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law supported Mr Halid Genjac's proposal to allow for another period of time for the amendment, as the official announcement of local elections goes today at five o'clock, so that he also supports Mr Filipović's stance as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And, just, a very short replica to Mr Filipović, the promoter did not support but did not oppose your amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2361	Is there anyone else coming up to the discussion? I think, Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2362	Maybe a little more to explain the situation. So, at today's session, we have on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law in the first reading. This session today was scheduled within one urgent time frame and the intention was at this home and last session to end both the commission phase and the first and second reading of the law within the deadline, which allows the amendments to the Election Law to be completed on the day of the elections, and the day of the election is today and it will probably come within the next two hours. Anything adopted by the day of elections can be applied in the elections. What is not adopted, of course cannot, because it is a practice and it is a question of the electoral law. 4 For these reasons, we had a conclusion that we adopted at the last session. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, with some efforts, has achieved that the session is being held today. The House scheduled its session during today's day and thus fulfilled the assumptions that the people's home fulfils a very important obligation, that amendments to the Electoral Law should be implemented in a way that respects the existing law in the meantime adopted in BiH, above all by the Minority Act, etc. Therefore, the House of Peoples has made assumptions to ensure that elections are held in accordance with the positive rules, which have been adopted and in a way that the recommendations of the Council of Europe are respected. Unfortunately, for reasons I will not enter, the House of Representatives has not provided the above-mentioned assumptions until today, and since until today this House of Representatives has not been to this law, and neither has the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives finished the work, so it is quite evident that this law cannot be adopted in the House of Representatives today. Since the law is only valid if it is adopted in both homes, and we could possibly now adopt the House of Nations, from the point of view of applying to the upcoming elections, it would be as if the law had not been passed. The Constitutional and Legal Commission held a comprehensive debate on some amendments. In particular, these solutions are supported or indicated the need to improve solutions in the draft Law on Amendments to the Election Law, but, while respecting all these circumstances and respecting the need for these solutions to be further squeezed, make them more quality in a very subtle area such as political advertising in electronic media, we have proposed and ask for this home to be supported, to extend the amendment phase to the next session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so that, possibly some more amendments can be submitted, in order to do something in a more appropriate, relaxed atmosphere, to discuss these and the submissions of amendments and amendments themselves. Just yet, there are no assumptions that we in the first reading are considering and, eventually, we adopt, and this for the commission stage and for the second reading, I think it's quite reasonable and will find support at this home. Let me just point out, therefore, although this is affecting somewhat and concerns first reading and second reading, the issue of political advertising, paid political advertising in electronic media, which is a very important issue, it is possible to resolve after talks and with representatives of the Election Commission, in a way that is applicable in municipal elections, which will be held this year and in the conditions of adoption for some 15 or 20 days of the law at both homes. For the simple reason that this campaign of paid political advertising takes place two months, or 60 days before the election with some elements that have been further reinforced the last 30 days before the elections and there is no need for preparation to be regulated with today's day such as the preparation of ballots, the preparation of the appearance of ballots, the application procedure for candidate lists, etc. all that needs to be adopted with today, in order for this preparation process to take place. So, lucky enough, it remains the possibility that this area, which in the current Electoral Law, is being dealt with incorrectly. In the proposal for an election, the amendment of the Election Law was resolved, but not to the fullest quality and with the amendments offered, with the intention of getting better rid of it. There is, therefore, the area of paid political advertising in electronic media within this deadline that I have stated to be adopted and applied to municipal elections, which is also very important for the media, but also for the integrity of the electoral process. It is, several, more than 5 clarifications or additional elements to understand at which point we are in position and in which we are talking about the law in the first reading, I therefore believe that the law has come from quality assumptions, that existing legal solutions are implemented and implicated in the Electoral Law, that there is a need for these solutions to be agreed and in the Electoral Law, there are certain technical issues, which need to be resolved in the Electoral Law, and there is this issue of minority representation in municipal councils and this political advertising, therefore, are all segments which the Law amending the Election Law has the ambition to solve as well as possible. Anyway, he's dealing with them. For these reasons, I believe that the law, the Proposal for a Law on Election Law, should be supported in the first reading and, of course, I also expect this House to support this commission phase to be extended, in order to make more quality amendments in the next few days and finally to join and adopt the Law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2363	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? Here you go. I'm sorry. I made one mistake. It's Mr. Jukić's turn, then Tomo Limov. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2364	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, this is one situation in which, I think, we did not want at all, but it happened, there was a situation that we would not be able to make in the future, given the deadline that today highlights changes and additions to the BiH Election Law. I don't think this is good at all, but I also dare say that's why he's not responsible, the House of Peoples is not responsible for this situation. Could this have been different, or could it have been as planned and that this would have been adopted within the time limit, and I think it was, but here, unfortunately, it didn't happen. I am, in fact, skeptical a little bit about the explanation of this part of the fact that paragraphs XVI to XVI of this electoral law, which is later when we adopt amendments and additions and for this day, therefore, beyond the deadline, that is, the date of the election announcement that it will be possible to apply the amendments and amendments. I don't know what it's based on, if it's a basic principle, which is accepted and which says that elections are being conducted on the basis of a law that is valid at the moment of the elections being announced. I don't get it, but here, I'm not going to go into the details. I wanted to talk about some other things. Very specifically, in fact, about the electoral law and, let's say, what I do here in the Electoral Law is not clear, and that is the choice of representatives of national minorities, so I wanted to look into it in an explanation, and there is still very interesting reason. I do not know if it is clear to others, it is said here that the percentage of 3% is said in Article 13 of point 14. Members of all national minorities in BiH have the right to elect their representatives to the municipal council of the municipality of municipalities. Members of all national minorities, who participate in the total population of the municipality up to 3% of the population, are guaranteed at least one place by decision of the council of the municipality, that was the second item. The third item says: Members of all national minorities participating in a total population of more than 3% of the population are guaranteed at least two seats in the municipal council of the municipality. This third item is clearly clear to me, however, the other is not. So it's up to 3%, and what's the lower percentage of the participation, or the number of people in the national minorities, means everyone, and I understand that, but what's the bottom threshold. I think this is inaccurate to give, leaves room for one great arbitrary 6 and I don't know how it works either. Here, Mr. Radovanović says that it is one, theoretically I think it is too much of an exclusive that, however, only one is enough to be there to have room, I don't know if there are ten or twenty or thirty or 35 council members, if there is only one resident, it means, these municipalities, and the electoral units that immediately ensure his participation in the membership, i.e. to be a member of the municipal council. I think this should be more precisely standardized and arranged, especially if I have a problem with the lack of an explanation of this article, at least I didn't get it in my materials. I think it's a good decision, though, but this wasn't prepared in time as material. It wasn't in time delivered to us, there wasn't enough time for commissions to work, and I think that, with my regret that today we won't be able to do it as planned, we don't think there really was enough time and enough time to study this quality. The truth here of these forty-six amendments, most of them actually don't matter too much, sometimes it's also about technical repairs, etc. However, some of these amendments are extremely important and important. I will repeat, extremely important and important, this article in the media is very important, very important, and it is very important that we determine ourselves on the matter of the media. So one approach is that there are no restrictions, and what he means is that those who have money could be unlimited time present in the media. Another approach is to, say, limit that time that can be bought. Paid ad means buying. Buying time in public media, or in electronic media. We will somehow regulate the public, but the issue is private, and let us not forget that the issue of private media advertising in them is very important and important, because some of the private media have coverage in BiH on two-thirds of the territory and even more, and that means, very, very large coverage and then really whoever has the money, if we don't set it right, you would have the opportunity to get into the media, the truth in private, but still in the media, which use a public good end, the right to broadcast in this area, etc. would have a much greater chance than those who would have and who have significantly smaller and more modest funds to fund their campaign for their promotion. So I think that this, here are these two questions that I have highlighted very important questions and I think it's good that when we can't already catch this deadline that we've set ourselves, a little truth ambitious and from us that we've imagined it, but we've been prepared here for something like that, but it hasn't happened, so it's good that we decide today to extend the deadline for the work of this competent commission and that we have more time to act amendment to this proposed text of amendment and addition of the BiH Election Law. Here, this is my few principled remarks and a few details about which we will definitely have to take into account in these next how long it will take, I will not even predict time and then we will get better quality, quality solutions to this law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2365	Mr. Limov, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2366	Thank you very much, Mr. President, although I thought it was less important, therefore, given the situation we are in, Mr. President of nature, that we will all adjust our discussions. I will make a direct statement about the principles of this law, but first of all, I would like to say that at the last session I warned about these deadlines, and I am glad that the House of Nations has done everything possible to do today in order to do this job that is related to calling these elections to one, because today is the 170th day that the law has been cut off and that part cannot be touched. Of course, in that sense, I want to say that I am prepared, and in both readings I will declare this law, nature, by accepting first and foremost its constitutional justification, this has been expressed, which I have also presented at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but also the fundamental 7 shoes on which this law is based. I want first of all to express my regret that certain things that we are normally required by international conventions, and in connection with national minorities, we will not be able to implement in the autumn elections. I wish I had misunderstood, but that's how I understood the promoter, so, of course, it's never too late, however, it's a real shame that we won't be able to live up to this in practice, because we were bound to, in accordance with the law on the protection of the rights of members of the national minorities, which we brought in at the end of last year, and in which this obligation is clearly specified, and I say, given the obligations arising from the international conventions, we should have done so. This example shows that, of course, I understand this law as a kind, as a reform law, so in the context of overall reforms, but this example shows that in the reform process, all participants must properly do their part of the work within the envisaged deadlines, especially when it is related as in this case for specific terms. Of course, this situation in which we have found ourselves shows only a consistent statement by the members of the committee, a joint commission that should have given us this law within a certain time, because we have learned today that some of them have never appeared in the work of that commission. I am pleased that this does not apply to members of the House of Peoples, but I am saddened by the fact that, however, we cannot do our part of the work or, of course, support that proposal that Mr Filipović presented before us by members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I hope that we will reach a consensus on this to give a business extra time, which will allow us to intervene even more fully and quality compared to the text of the law that is on the agenda. I would just like to draw attention to Mr. Jukić's attention that, bearing in mind the commitment to ensure the proper rights of national minorities, we certainly do not need to be afraid, and we will not be able to say so, because practice shows us that the members of the national minorities are indeed in an inappropriate way in the overall institutions in which they enter, in accordance with the solutions and this electoral law are insufficiently represented and in that sense, I therefore support this commitment, although it would be good to be where there are more national minorities, possibly consider the ways of resolution, which he has hinted at, and I suppose Mr. Jukić will also make a contribution in this sense, so that when we reach that stage, after 15 days or perhaps sooner, we will all be able to express our views on it. So, once again I support in my first reading, I will give support to such a concise law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2367	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasan Čengić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2368	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Attending, I am taking the opportunity to thank my colleague, the House, for having decided today on 15 April, 17 hours ago to schedule this session and to put this agenda on the table for consideration of our home. I think it's a good sign, a good gesture of mood and the relationship of this home to this issue. At the same time, I want to express my deep dissatisfaction and protest over the fact that we have not passed this law by now which is an extremely important law. So, not only for our international obligations, which we have taken over but also for our internal relations. In that sense, I find it inadmissible to discuss today that we are all here as a home of 8 all in the mood to find a solution, to look for and find a solution, and at the same time as the House of Parliament are absolutely powerless to change the situation in which we have found ourselves. I believe this is a very serious blow to BiH's position towards international obligations and a very serious blow to everything we have talked about and why we have made public declaration. I find this inadmissible, and I believe that this point should be raised today in the question of determining responsibility, it seems to me, first and foremost, within the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, for the fact that this law has not been passed today. Why am I saying this? First of all, I'm not a lawyer today, and, if I greatly appreciate the tropics, today I almost want to say thank God that I'm not a lawyer today and that I don't have to interpret the views and positions that we currently have and the situation we're in. On the one hand, we heard that the entity's competent authorities have taken the decision to elect the municipal chiefs directly, which is the newspaper and which was not foreseen so far, i.e. and at this time with the only applicable law on municipal, or local elections. I'm saying I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not quite clear, and that's why I'm asking here today to answer that question, if I can't, then I'm asking it as a question, and not as a delegate question in that classical sense of the word to explain it to me by one of the Council of Ministers, but I'm looking for an answer to the question. In which way it is possible to vote, i.e. to hold elections under the old electoral law and to apply the decision directly to choose the commissioner. So I have to admit that, I said I'm not a lawyer, but to me it seems to be one thing that's very difficult to explain for an unfair mind. The second question is, the national minority position issue. We have made it very clear, and we all know that we have made clear obligations about national minorities and not only have we taken commitments, but we have passed the law. I share the dilemma, which, as Mr. Jukić interpreted as important, but I do not believe that it is a political double or a dilemma about whether or not, but it is really necessary to technically specify and we cannot be brought into a situation that in one municipality perhaps three members of a national minority have the same position as in a thousand. So, that's definitely supposed to be settled, but I think it's a solution thing. However, it is unacceptable for me to have a law on national minorities, to prescribe this law for national minorities to be represented and that today we will agree that these national minorities will wait another four years for them to get their right. I personally cannot accept that I am responsible for such behaviour in the public as of today and for the next four years, because I consider myself responsible because I participate in this process. The third, also serious question is the position of the media, the right media, the position of the media, etc. I don't want to talk about it anymore, because there have been enough words here, but it's obvious that on one side it's a political issue, on another economic issue, and it's clear that we have formally left the time of socialism, but that we still, in some ways, are very happy to remember it and sometimes we would apply it, especially me from political parties, if we benefit from it. Since that's the case, I'm gonna say this today. I think I say that on time, it's still 16 hours and 9 minutes, I don't think there are any conditions for calling municipal elections in BiH, I don't think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has fulfilled its obligations, and I think that today we should make it clear that we should extend the publication of municipal elections. I know you'll say you can't. This is exactly what I was going to say, that we are leading the controversy about, that we are prolonging the public elections, and that we are defining the deadline within which we need to get 9 electoral laws, which will solve these, at least these two, and for me, three very serious dilemmas and very serious questions. Whether it'll be in three or seven or seventeen days, I don't decide. I am very pleased to have you here as a home, as unique as everyone, along with a colleague who is justly absent we agree that we should work on this because we are all present here, because we have all responded that within a very short time we will come to the session that we have in these afternoon sessions and that we want to discuss it. I believe this is a serious question and we need to talk about it. For that reason, I ask that my proposal be made known. Secondly, I ask that our home also draws the conclusion that responsibility is sought, that responsibility is sought for delaying the adoption of this law. I really don't know who's responsible right now. I don't know, but I definitely know that the damage to this law's passing in time is so great that I don't want to take over any part of it as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly. And lastly, I accept the proposal and the suggestion of our constitutional commission, which in this law has worked as a competent commission, not to declare ourselves today, but to leave enough space, until the next session of the commission, for, possibly new amendments and for agreeing on existing amendments in a way that we can obtain such a text of the amendment, which we can declare positively and give support. I had no intention of causing any impatience or anxiety, but I had the intention of expressing in this way what seems to me to be less all of us in this room sharing, as members of this house, and that is one deep dissent with the fact that we do not have this law despite our efforts in this house and doing as much as it was in our power to come in time with the new law. I think it's less of a damage than a day of elections that could come to the elections under the old law, by which there will be no more representation of national minorities and by which four next years, we will have to read to the international community from day to day from meeting why we have avoided involving national minorities in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2369	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. As far as I'm concerned, there are no more applications for discussion here at the taster. What I mean to say is that this attempt at the House of Peoples is one of the qualities of people, or all the delegates in this House, but, given the circumstances, here's definitely the adoption of the law we won't be able to make within the deadlines, although we have discussed it more seriously in the previous assembly, but the situation is as it is. First, Hasane, you've had some suggestions, but first, let's put on a vote what our commission has proposed, which is to extend the deadline for the amendment, whether or not we're going to make a 15-day deadline to extend the deadline for the amendment so that we can still invest in the amendment, in order to improve this law even more and to look for better solutions. I think this is good, and here, now I'm gonna ask. Who's up for a proposal like this? Do we have those results? Therefore, out of a total of 14 MPs, that is, all 14 voted in favour. So here's the conclusion that the House of Nations extended the deadline for amendment to the election law. 10 Second, I would ask Hasan to help us formulate this proposal that Hasan has proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2370	So my first conclusion would be to assign the College of the Peoples to establish a way or to propose a way of determining responsibility for delaying the adoption of this law. You can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2371	To determine what?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2372	To determine the responsibility of a delay in the adoption of this law, to establish a way of determining responsibility. Or to determine a way to determine responsibility for delaying the adoption of this law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We're in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2373	Thank you very much. He answered the word Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2374	Thank you very much for your word. I feel the need to say two or three words about this initiative to a respected counterpart, Čengić. I appreciate and respect, and so I understand his good intentions to tell all of us here and those who listen and follow our work, that this house did not commit, that he did everything he could, that, behold, he was beyond all possible deadlines which he, hastened and completed the full procedure and to adopt and do his job, related to the amendments and additions of the Election Law. In this house before tonight, the Electoral Commission, authorized to declare it, announces and announces local elections. So, I fully understand and respect and accept this intention, because I do believe that the people who worked in the Change and Supplement Working Group are Mr. Genjac, Mr. Radović and my smallness, did not contribute to the delay of putting into the procedure of the Amendment Amendment of the Election Law. There's no lady here who presented that qualification, and here she said what she said compared to the work group's unhappiness. However, the working group is not proposing a proposal for an election law, but rather an Electoral Commission. So we've turned the order of things around, so we're turned in another direction to think about what, I don't think it's good. And what's important is why I asked for the word, I'm sure we wouldn't be able to reach conclusions in this house and ask for the responsibility of someone in the House of Representatives, which is why, here's the situation we're in, because we didn't make it before the deadline within which the election law requires a decision to call local elections. It is now doubtful whether it is the House of Representatives, which received a late proposal from an authorised applicant or an authorised promoter. So, I'm opening a dilemma, and in view of the decision to call the elections, let's stop it with our own decision. It's something we can't influence. That would mean, I'm allowed to say my first opinion, and there's also an esteemed fellow Justice Minister, Secretary of the Council of Ministers, if you want them to come forward and get it, probably Mr. Chairman. This would mean amending certain provisions now, but 11 of the same decision in both homes you know to force and remove, these step-offs and we would not have a choice under the Election Law and will act as Election Commission and call the elections and in article 3 of the dilemma tabled by counterpart Čengić, this is how I can call the elections and we will have a direct election of the commissioner. Therefore, Chapter XIII provides for the possibility of both secondary and direct selection, the head of municipalities and the selection of Chapter XIII of the Electoral Law and there is a basis...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2375	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Zoran Spasojevć answered the question. Zoran, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2376	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, dear guests, I didn't mean to take your call, but Mr. Čengić's discussion asked me to say a few words. The first thing I want to say is that we now have a valid law on which the election is governed by the Election Act, which is valid, brought by this home and it works and I don't know why we're so eager for change that we haven't come in time, a question like Mr. Ilija Filipović said, whether it's the proposer or the guilty representatives of the House of Representatives, there's a big dilemma, why it's been waiting this long to come into this chat in the last month or the last fifteen days to look for something that may have been objectively possible to do, but if it had been done in time, maybe three months before, early in the new year to pass a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, everything would have been done by now. So something to put into a situation where we move the election, to accuse, to look for shifts in the House of Representatives, which we don't really have any legal basis for doing this, it's inexplicable to me, because we have a particular Electoral Law. This is still the fog that needs to be passed, maybe it won't be passed, I don't know if these amendments to the Electoral Law will be passed, so we don't have to worry about that much. The law of the election works. As for the election of chiefs, it's regulated by entity electoral law and we won't have a debate at all, as far as the directly elected commissioner is concerned, so if by five hours it's passed, I think it's passed as the chief's elected, he'll be elected, if he doesn't stay by the old rule, and it's clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2377	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. What I can tell my colleagues in this house at this point when it comes to some deadlines is that we have received this law in Parliament 25.3. This means that the most hasty and urgent work in order for this law to be passed and, behold, we have what we have in common. I am even inclined now to ask Mr. Čengić and ask him whether he remains on this proposal or not. Here you go, Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2378	I hope the esteemed colleagues understood my idea correctly. So, first of all, I didn't ask for anyone's shift. I asked to establish responsibility and I felt that we should continue to do so and what Mr. Spasojević said was, in fact, the essence of the whole story. He was very precise and said, "If we got it three months ago, we would have done it in time." That's my question. Why didn't we get that three months ago? Why didn't someone zone three 12 months ago that the election would be according to the law of that and that date? Are we as charming as we are sitting somewhere, pardon the expression in some bar? Is it true that there is no one in this country who leads on dates, dates, deadlines and obligations? We knew that. Here sits an esteemed colleague, who was less than a month ago and insisted on the deadline and said we'd be late. What did we do? That's the essential question. Is it possible that yesterday he was sitting on the House of Representatives and overlapping and arguing without this point being on the agenda? Is it possible that the Election Commission is doing every working day throughout the year, that it is funded from the Budget of the BiH State and that the Election Commission has only one job, essentially one job to take care of elections, prepare for elections and is it possible that this Election Commission did not know when the date was and is it possible that this election commission did not know the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly and is it possible that it could not have submitted it in time? It's not possible, gentlemen. I don't agree to be held accountable for something I'm not responsible for, and I don't think any of us here are co-responsible. This isn't a roll call, it's no predetermining anyone. I just suggested that the College consider the variants of the determination, therefore, to consider the process of determining responsibility for the current situation, because I repeat, we will be discussing with the results of what we are discussing this time of year for the next 4.5 to five years. We are going to have a hard time paying for this in all our further talks with Europe. I don't want to bear that responsibility. We knew that. We can't say that we didn't even know about national minorities, that we knew that we had shown that in the parliamentary procedure, we had passed legislation in this parliamentary assembly, and now we weren't able to include the provisions of that law in the new law. Gentlemen, these are serious things and these are serious things that are repeated to us and that, if we continue to behave like this, will appear in the future, especially in the next two months and will especially be repeated from June 20th to June 30th. when we call each other out why we didn't get this, who's late which commission is, which commission isn't. For all these reasons, which are not at all of a personal nature, but of a principled nature, I think we should make a statement. I apologize to my colleagues. I know that they don't want to get into such a situation in fact delicate, leather and personal, but, I'm sorry, I'm not going to get mad at anyone who votes against. I want this to be put on the agenda today, therefore, this question of determining how, method or pathways to determining responsibility for delaying the adoption of this law. That's what I'm talking about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2379	Thank you very much. Here, he answered the word Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2380	Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers and the funds of public information, it's very common that guilt doesn't live here in our home. We have indeed made a great effort. We are all aware that we are doing this within the time limit that these elections could be organised and held in the autumn, but with these changes and dipuns, which we are all aware we need to implement, it is only a matter of modification, therefore, of improving certain solutions. We have these obligations to the international community, I primarily think of our post-accession obligations for our membership in the Council of Europe, where we are clearly alerting ourselves when it comes to all the national minorities, therefore, and their participation in local authorities. Indeed, I see us all here on the same background. We may all think a little differently, but I think we should ask ourselves why yesterday's House of Representatives didn't discuss this item of the agenda, why our colleagues from the House of Representatives didn't put in any extra effort, which we also made to prepare and put this into the agenda. That wouldn't be our first time. It would be less damage if we had improved this 13 law a little better in less intensity than if it remained in force as it is at this point. And, here, I specifically think that we would, I don't see that the proposal proposed by Mr. Čengić and, if I fully support his essence, but I don't see what it would be like for the College, in which way we could find that solution. I, here, suggest that we take this session today to take a break from one and determine a group that would try to formulate the conclusion of our home.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2381	So, I think we'd better take a good time. That's the first one. And, second gentlemen, we've committed to many things. Our parties have signed their obligations, and that will be shown to us one day when we are late and we will justify ourselves without benefit. It is better to determine the responsibility of at least the post-festum than to act as if nothing had happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2382	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Who answered? A Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2383	Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we first vote in the first reading, which follows us in the Rules of Procedure, and then put Mr. Čengić's request, or his proposal for a conclusion, and that we also declare him and that there is no reason to delay. We've discussed everything about this law. So it is clear that we have made a great effort to go to the first reading today that there has been such a will in the House of Representatives and so on, so it will be clearly written everywhere that the House of Peoples has adopted the first reading at today's session, has not adopted the second reading because it has not been discussed by the House of Representatives, the possibility of this conclusion being made first, means that we are going another 15 days for amendments to improve this amendment and supplementing the Isbor law. We've done everything that's up to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2384	Thank you, Mr. Spasojević. I mean, if we are, Mr Filipović, it's not an observation, but I want you to help me. We've adopted this today to extend the amendment, which means we're in the process and we're not adopting the law in the first reading. Right? Once we've exhausted the amendment, then we'll adopt it in our first reading. Is that what I understand? Please, I want you to help me. Here you go, Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2385	First, to note that you have a lawyer next to you, it's the Secretary of the House who will help you, but I don't find it hard to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2386	I'd like to hear from you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2387	It is not disputed, therefore, that we can adopt and, firstly, read the text that is before us and consider the amendments in the second reading, because we have concluded that the amendment is possible, so that we should consider the amendments, accept or reject them in the second reading and adopt the final text of the proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2388	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. I'll put it to the vote, put it to vote, if we pass the law, the electoral law in the first reading of amendments and additions. That's right. Because of the possibility of a change in action, we've come to this conclusion once. Who's in? Did we vote this right? We'll do it again. Not everyone voted. We're going to vote now. Let's see how it goes now, technique is technique. We didn't play much. I find that the law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. Thank you colleagues very much. So now we put Mr. Čengić's proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2389	I don't think it's a good practice for unpared to determine the composition of this, let's say an investigative committee that needs to determine who's responsible for the delay in this process and I think it may be the College, and that is why I propose that we choose an electoral review, which will determine who is responsible for the delay in this process of amending and supplementing BiH's electoral law. I think it's really late delivered, but, look, I'm not going to insist right now, I think we need to form an investigative commission, or a commission, and we need to give a certain amount of time, to say who it is and why this delay is responsible for. So I suggest it's not a college, but it's a different composition, but it can also be members of the colleges.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2390	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2391	What I understand from Mr. Jukić, I'd like to say next. What he's proposing is a step beyond what I'm proposing. Yeah. In a literal sense. So my proposal was for you as a College to propose how we're going to deal with it, so we'll make it clear on this on the next commission, and you can suggest that it be an investigative committee of three members, of six members, that it be, that it works so much time, that it is, therefore, that you suggest it. Don't let us decide now, but to suggest it, and the reason is very simple. Namely, you are, however, someone who is very often sitting together, talking, able to communicate with others and try to do it a little bit in one way, who will not be aggressive, nor polite, and especially to be within the procedure of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. So, if you were to suggest who would do it and what composition in terms of the number of people. We can also set a deadline later that will be so on. So let us be clear about this at the next session of the House. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2392	Thank you, Hasan. So, here, can we say on behalf of the College that we do not vote to accept this task, which is offered to us by our congregation, and that in the shortest time, we will propose to the congregation one way to do so. I don't think we need to vote. Thank you very much. I apologize, Mr. Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2393	Mr. President, chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would try to supplement, not to deal with ourselves, to deal only with this point, we have a large number of obligations and there must be a lot of work ahead of us. Therefore, this should be one appeal to all the participants in the resolution in Parliament here at two homes, to advocate in the next period, not only this, but enough with the reform laws, what we have signed in our own domain is that each one will advocate that the obligations are met. In that sense, I suggest that you as a College, give one appeal, therefore, not only to the House of Representatives but to all the institutions, who are obliged to carry out their obligations exactly on time, as foreseen by that programme and the plans that we have brought, and that would be a good opportunity to take advantage of and that you, behold, the House of Peoples is calling for everyone to fulfil their obligations on the course that we have said is the reforming accession of Europe, and we know all the obligations there, because we have signed this and what one and the other House expects. Or those services that need to prepare appropriate legislation, laws, regulations, but they need to come to Parliament to adopt themselves. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2394	Thank you, Hope. Here, we'll use that suggestion as well. Thanks for the suggestion. We will take this opportunity to, indeed, make this home public and ask people who participate in the BiH authorities to hurry to really take faster steps. Thank you very much. Mr. Osman Brka reporting for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2395	I thank you and, indeed, by following today's work, I have no dilemma that this home is unique in that we have to fulfill and need the obligations that are ahead of us on time and within the time-limits of absolute commitment that are ahead of us. I am absolutely certain that all 14 and Zno 15, who today is not here that he is because and that this atmosphere in this house is all the time and therefore Mr. Čengić suggested one thing, which is good for me, only I wouldn't be divorcing her. What he later wanted to supplement, and he added it to me by divorcing things. That's not gonna happen. Then of that, there's absolutely nothing. I'm because a college that I trust, because it's responsible people in college, which I now have to expand with some other members. Let the College do its part of the work responsibly and let it make it known to all the institutions in this country that this home, not immediately wants to work and fulfil its obligations in time, but also to ask all other institutions in this country to do so in time and not to bring with certain delays and this home into the awkward situation that we are in today without any 16 guilt we are in such a situation. Why? I mean, we have a moral right to ask others because we do our duties on time and that's why I'm so that the College can do its part of the job, sit down, says who didn't work. When will someone in this country be responsible for something he didn't do in time, and he had to do it? Someone's got to run it sometime. Someone's gonna say we're not in charge. Who is it? Who will tell the Parliamentary Assembly if we do not speak openly to each other who has failed in this situation. Someone's made an appointment. He needs to know who made the appointment so he doesn't have another appointment. Come on, we're not gonna crucify him, but we're gonna say you don't have the right to do that anymore. That's why I don't think we should be divorcing, but now the College to form a commission, there's nothing out of it. It's me, either to do it to the College or not to, let's just say there's nothing to it. I am for Cengic's proposal to be adopted but not to be divorced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2396	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Goran Milojević answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2397	Here, I'm thinking the same way as Mr. brkati, except I might be even more radical. I suggest today, that we take a break and today we conclude one to bring to the back of what Mr. Brka was talking about. So, what Mr. Spasojević says is that someone's going to tell the House of the Peoples eh, they're good guys, and these are bad ones. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know if you notice it, we as Dom face an attempt to marginalize ours. Very often our officials from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when represented by someone from the House of Representatives are said to be the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. No, they're not. They are part of the Parliamentary Assembly. They are part of the Parliamentary Assembly and we are. I suggest a conclusion on the background of what Mr. Brka said. I can't tell him right now, it would take one break for one group to make that conclusion to adopt him today to say that we were ready and that we did all of our work, that there were problems, that these were problems that were common, but we also found solutions not only in this home, but also in the other and now suddenly there's no solution in this other home. The question arises whether it's an accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2398	Thank you very much. I'm taking a 20-minute break and I'm calling with the College of Constitutional Constitutional Commission members. I'm asking you to take our seats and the break we've had, and here's the conclusion, and we're going to suggest these conclusions to this house for adoption. [[PAUZA]] I ask you, should you carefully read the conclusions and ask colleagues who have or will have observations that something has changed to see that we are discussing these conclusions. I honestly think they're good enough and they say and they're not sharp enough, that they're the extent to which communication from this home allows, and I think this should be adopted. I'd like to ask, here, I'll do the stenogram, I'll ask Mr. Jadranka to read these conclusions, simply to have them in the stenogram. Here you go, Mr. Jadranko. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2399	The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held at the 21st session held on 15.04.2004, with the following conclusions on the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina: 1. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has provided all necessary preconditions and held today's session with the aim of timely adoption and adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking care of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations undertaken. 2. Although the House of People has clearly expressed its mood for the adoption and adoption of the law, and given the parliamentary procedure, it was not possible to adopt and adopt this law, as the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not even consider this law, the House of Peoples cannot accept any responsibility for the non-compliance and non-compliance of the Law within the required time. 3. The people's home is asking the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to determine the reasons and circumstances for not adopting the law and inform the public. 4. This, during the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, requires all BiH institutions to take all the necessary action to carry out their commitments towards Euro-Atlantic integration in line with the programme and deadlines adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2400	Here, we heard what Mr. Jadranko read. Well, I would, I don't think we have any objections. I'll do it now, Mr. Halid.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2401	I hope that grammatical errors will be removed, before this is delivered to the House of Representatives, such as the drawn words do not adopt, it is one word of disapproval, timely, globular in the first sentence, etc., but in the second position please, second point. He says, and if the House of Nations has made it clear that he is in a mood for the adoption of law-making, then in a row, then another sentence, and again in a row, the House of Nations cannot accept any responsibility for not adopting, therefore, and if he has done everything he cannot bear responsibility. It is not entirely appropriate for each other, it is not simplified, I guess it is thought since the House of Nations has made it clear either that, or only the House of Nations has made it clear and cannot accept any responsibility. You know, these two sentences aren't even the beginning and the end of this second attitude is complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2402	This, at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, requires all BiH institutions to take all necessary activities to carry out the activity of the commitments undertaken, and I would now insert this text into the next and consistent implementation of the reforms, and agreeing 18 legislation with the standards and norms of the EU member states, instead of Euro-Atlantic integration. This seems a little ungrably to Eurotlanscile integration. 'Cause watch out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2403	We have obligations to the Council of Europe. We can say the name of each other, it's possible or leave this general definition like this. I think it's all the same, we just can't go to the EU, we need the Council of Europe, because we're members of the Council of Europe, we have these commitments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2404	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Filipović answered the question. Here, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2405	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. I'd like to warn all my colleagues at point 3. We will, when this point 3 is read from the House of Representatives, receive a conflicting question, as we have not adopted the law today on amendments and additions to the Law. So we haven't passed the law on amendments and amendments to the law. That's what we were prepared to do, but there's a certain way of saying it. So we're not adopted, we're responding to them for what they're not, and neither are we. We delayed adoption and left time for constraint, so to speak of the harsh amendment, extended the amendment phase, etc., because they did not adopt. So, if they had been adopted, we were ready to do that, we would have given up the amendment and we would have the law. But tell them we're asking them to explain why they didn't adopt it, and we didn't adopt it. We need to make it clear that we didn't want it, that we couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2406	But I think we're here in this first part, I don't know, in this second part we said that we were ready to adopt and pass this law, but we're not because of the procedure, but good. Thank you very much. Has anyone heard from you? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2407	If the composers won't mind me, I would suggest on my part a slightly different version of the text, with an apology and an apology, of course, that since I wasn't involved in it, now it's easy for me to be a successful critic. So I really appreciate what they've done, and this intervention of mine is only in the function of curtailing this text and I'd say keeping what you want, but only in one, don't mind me, maybe a little happier form. So I would suggest that the text be simplified in a way that has three positions, three conclusions. The House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has provided, not all, but the necessary preconditions for timely adoption and adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. By estimating the interests of citizens and taking over international obligations, the House is scheduled and held today's session. First conclusion. 19 The other one would be. The House of Representatives has not carried out a timely review of this law and calls on the House of Peoples, or invites the House of Representatives to meet the public to determine the reasons and circumstances for not considering the law, the bill and inform the public. Third, during the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it invites not all of them, but the competent institutions of BiH to take the necessary action, and most of the proposals for an add-on, but the bottom line is that these three first conclusions, in my court, could be made aware of these two that I propose. It seems to me that this is a happy and useful resuscitation and that the formulations are a little happier, given that we have an address in the House of Representatives and that we are giving them a request. I think it's basically a requirement that it's kept, and that it's a little bit more digestible for its media exposure, when mentioned this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2408	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? So no one's answering for a word anymore. Let's make this a deal now, hilmo. Now, let's just say, let's not make a stenogram take this out of the stenogram, what, and we'll agree on a new conclusion, let's try it out, and let's try this out, and here I think this remark from my colleague Jukić might, in this third paragraph, be taken into consideration, maybe co-opted into that text.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2409	I believe that much of what Dr. Hilmo was talking about is, I agree with that, but I think it would be convenient for this part that Mr. Jukić said to be an integral part of it, too, I apologize, maybe I'm not. I think it would be acceptable for everyone to do it and adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2410	Okay. Čengić answered the question. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2411	This is all Mr. Hilmo and Mr. Čengić answered his word. Here you go. This is all that Mr. Hilmo and Mr. Jukić said, I think it's on the back of that repairing text, but there remains one open question in that one word, where the proposal was considered, why the predstavnički of Representatives did not consider and we say adopted. That's the essence of the whole story. I'm sorry, we can't name them why they didn't consider it. They could have considered it for a year and not brought it again. The story is whether the law was passed or not. So, that's, I think we should make a statement about it, because there's no benefit in considering it. We haven't solved anything by considering, we've solved until the day of it and if it was possible without considering just voting to get the law it's business. Oh, considering a year wouldn't solve the problem. That's why I think we should keep the term or the word, so we should adopt it, not consider it, because otherwise we're not done. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2413	Thank you very much. The point is to adopt the law. Here, let's have some patience while we put this to rest. We generally agreed with what Mr. Neimarlija said with this, we're jukićeti to jukic's supplement from this explanation, so we don't move on and wait for this to be over. Let's take a break one of five minutes, ten. ... [[PAUZA]] Hilm Neimarli to read us the conclusion. But are you going out of place or are you going out?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2414	So, for a stenogram, since it will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2415	Sit down, Hilmo, you'll hear better.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2416	The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held at the 21st session held on 15.04.2004, with a view to considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, draws the following conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly people's home has provided the necessary preconditions for timely adoption and adoption of laws on amendments and amendments to the BiH Election Law. Taking into account the interests of citizens and the international obligations undertaken, this goal was scheduled and held today's House session. 2. Although the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not timely carried out parliamentary procedures for the adoption and adoption of laws, the House of Peoples is asking the House of Representatives to determine the reasons and circumstances that made it conditional and inform the public. 3. This during the House of Peoples calls on the BiH institutions to take over everything, to take all the activities necessary to carry out the commitments undertaken towards Euro-Atlantic integration and to carry out the reforms consistently on the road.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2417	Here we are. Any objections?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2418	My colleague Jukić, I summed this up in the end, I think I saved the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2419	Thank you very much. Here, I hope we've come up with some text for whom, I'm putting the motion to vote. 21 Who is in favour, this is the conclusion. So, a total of 12 candidates voted. Excuse me, 13 candidates, 12 are in favour and 1 is abstention and no one is against it. So, we've adopted the conclusion. Thank you very much. We'll move on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The balance of staff in BiH institutions according to the national principle In line with the conclusion of the House of Peoples, adopted at the 20th session of the House of Peoples, held on 6 April 2004, we are today considering this item of the agenda. Immediately after the session, we sent a letter to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to deliver a comprehensive report on the balance of staff in BiH institutions on a national basis. The Council of Ministers has not delivered a report. I beg my colleague, our colleague, Boško Šiljegović, as a proposing and a man who asked for this to be a part of the agenda, I beg him for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that we have not received information on staff in the Council of Ministers by national principle, that is, my proposal is later complemented by colleagues from the Bosniak people in BiH institutions, I propose that we take this item of the agenda down, and the moment we receive from the Council of Ministers a final report that we are probably going in the direction, because this would be only a partial adoption of the conclusion in one segment and I have noted that we need to be a corrective factor for this national and, if there is a need, I see that Mr. Ivan Ćosić, the secretary, if there is a need, is withdrawing until I get a full report which we will consider and make proposals in this direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2421	Thank you very much. Here, I don't know if Mr. Ćosić will have anything to say? Here you go, Mr. Ćosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2422	Mr. President, gentlemen of the vice presidents and gentlemen of the envoys, behold, thanks to the opportunity to address this house for the first time, I am obliged to say just a few notes in front of the Council of Ministers. Mr President of the Council of Ministers could not attend today's session because of its unscheduled obligations, so on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I am obliged to say only the following. In order not to remain, in fact, as an unfulfilled Council of Ministers' commitment to this conclusion, which was mentioned earlier, I am obliged only to say that we are at today's session, meaning, at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers and the Head of the Council of Ministers, which was founded by the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Law on Ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to provide extensive information on the state of employment, means, employed by 22 national basis. We couldn't prepare this extensive report for today's session, because we only received material on the 8th of this, and in the meantime there was no Council of Ministers meeting but only today, so this is why you didn't have this material available today, and since the problem of such a type is that it takes a little more time to collect all that data and after 25th will be delivered to this house this complete information, according to this conclusion and you will have the opportunity to discuss it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-15-0.u2423	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćosić. I thank our colleague Boško Šiljegović for this understanding, an excellent understanding of this problem of these things. I would also like to thank Mr Ćosić and I would really appreciate it if the Council of Ministers, within that time of day, which, behold, has given itself a single review of Parliament to consider and need Parliament to consider it and, behold, I think it is a good one. You also have the understanding of Mr Šiljegović and the complete Parliament. So, dear colleagues, I think we're done with this session and thank you for your cooperation. Thank you for understanding. You helped and thank you for overcoming all the problems at that first point in the dilemma whether or not we should have reflected the session. It turns out, however, that this session was very necessary and that we solved some things with quality. You'll leave those cards in there, then the Service will. So, I have to inform you now because of the time, which, due to the busyness of many MPs and the jobs we are doing, we have been discussing in the College today the possibility of holding a session, so we agreed that on April 26th we have one session and that we have a second session on May 22 - 21st, so that you are preparing to hold those two sessions yet. Thank you very much. That's information. The session was completed at 18.40 hours.
