ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3150	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at the session, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people, Mr Čengić will join us in one hour, so we will be in a larger number here. For the 27th session, I suggest the following updated and amended agenda, 1 / 1 Answering Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Journal of the 26th Session of the House of Nations, 3. Voting on Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in accordance with Constitutional Court Decision No: U-8/04, 4. Voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH pursuant to Constitutional Court Decision No: U-2/04, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Institute for Measurement/Metrology of BiH, 6. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of BiH, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a food law under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and to assess compliance by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a law on the general safety of products by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for an emergency pardon law in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 12. A request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on supervision of the BiH market by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 13. Request of the Council of Ministers for the Dispersion of the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of State Borders by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 2 14. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 12 / 15 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, First Reading, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 16. Proposal for a law on use, protection of the name BiH, first reading, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, first reading, 18. Proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH, first reading, 19th Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading, 20. Proposal for a law amending the Law on temporary suspension from the execution of the application on the basis of decisions made on the burden of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, first reading, 21. Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, First Reading, 22. Proposal for a Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, first reading, 23rd Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in BiH, first reading, 24. Report of the BiH Presidency Audit Office for 2003, 25. Office for Auditing BiH institutions' 2003 audit report, 26. Giving consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office, 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Moldova and BiH on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income tax and capital, 28. Information on the activities of the People's House on the implementation of the obligations of BiH and the Performance Study, in order to launch negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. I'm opening a debate on this agenda proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. Since no one has applied for the discussion, I find that the agenda has been adopted in accordance with Article 46. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to the first item of the agenda is that, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to delegate questions, Milojević, Šiljegović and Spajić were received. Are your colleagues satisfied with the answer you received? Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3151	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, fellow delegates, respected guests, I received a reply from the Employment Agency of BiH on 21 July, and here I will try one short part to read. The BiH Agency for Labour and Employment was established by the Law on the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, the "Official Messenger of BiH No. 2103", by decision of the BiH Council of Ministers No. 3 and that of 13 October 2003. The executives of the director and deputy director of the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment have been appointed. Following the adoption of a Regulation on the Internal Organisation of the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH on which the BiH Council of Ministers agreed on 18.03.2004 and according to which the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment has a total of 18 perpetrators, an ad has been called for admission to the employment of 6 employees. Advert was published in the Daily Lisge "Freedom" on 06.04. and the Independent Newspaper on 15.04. A total of 48 candidates reported, of which 8 provided all the necessary evidence of compliance with the conditions of the ad. Among the eight candidates whose applications were complete, six candidates were elected. Now, my question was the national structure of these new employees or employees. The national structure of selected candidates is the following: 4 Bošnjak, 1 Srbin and 1 rest from the mixed marriage of Srbin and Bošnjak. Here, there's too much to comment on. I got a response with the national structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3152	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Mr. Spajić, nothing, all right. Here I am, as a delegate, saying that I have received the answer that I do not think the answer is complete, and I expect that the Commission established by the House of Representatives, and it is related to the determination of the truth regarding ESFOR's action at the Palace, will do the job, and that we will then and the entire public will actually be informed about the events in which I have asked the parliamentary question. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Spajić should still plead, I'm getting a warning, are you satisfied with the answer or not? I thank Mr. Spajić, Mr. Tomislav Limov, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3153	Dear Madam Presidents, thank you for giving me the opportunity, regardless of the summer break ahead of us, I'm going to ask an emissary question that I appreciate may be interesting to those to whom I'm going to ask it, especially to us who are expecting it. I hope I get an answer no matter what the summer break is in one reasonable time. Of course, I will try to ask the question as easily as possible, and it is otherwise directed towards the Council of Ministers. What state and entity officials and institutions have, in the period from 1 January 2003 to today, stolen official vehicle and what and with what effect have the relevant institutions taken on finding a vehicle as well as on detecting and processing criminals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3154	I thank my colleague Limov. I don't see any further reports. Please deliver later in writing your question here to the secretary. Since there are no reports, we move to the next point, the second point of the agenda is, 4 Ad.2. Journal of the 26th House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Does anyone report for a word? I don't see any reports. I am opening a vote on the minutes of the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You can vote now. I find the record unanimously adopted by 13 votes in favour. Moving to the third item of the agenda, Add.3. Voting on Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in accordance with Constitutional Court Decision No: U-8/04. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Vinko Radovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3155	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to... I would only briefly comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I'll komentarisaći on both, since the decisions are the same. In my opinion, this Constitutional Court decision is not in line with the BiH Constitution, i.e. I think these decisions are against the constitution. Namely, what's this about? The second point of view of the decision is that the proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH provides for the possibility of using one or more languages, constitutive peoples and the way the Statute is made, is destructive by the vital interests of the Croatian people and so is said in the second decision. I don't see why the Constitutional Court has decided at all about the harmfulness of the decision for the vital interests of a nation. The procedure says that the Constitutional Court is considering procedural regularity. The Constitutional Court has taken the right to take under this procedural regulation to assess the vital interest. I don't think it's an order, and if they took this decision, then the Constitutional Court would be the one to assess the protection of vital interest. So I think this decision is unconstitutional and I'm going to try to maybe challenge this in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3156	Anyone else want to talk? I don't see any reports. We will now vote on this law in accordance with the Constitution of Article 3e), we are voting by the peoples. To pass the law, it requires the consent of most bošnjački, Serbian and Croatian delegates present and voting. 5 So I'm opening a vote on you can vote. Now you can vote. We have the results of the vote, 6 is in, 1 is abstention and 5 is against. By the peoples, therefore we have not, it is not, it is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3157	Bošnjak 3 for, Hrvat 1 for, Srbin 3 for. Hrvat 4 against, Bošnjak 1 against.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3158	So the law didn't pass. I thank the secretary for helping with the count. I would suggest, if you agree on this point of the 1st conclusion, that it obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare a new proposal for a higher education law as soon as possible because of the exceptional importance of this law for BiH citizens. Here, I give my word to my colleague Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3159	Here, esteemed Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, guests, I apologize, I'll be very brief. I think here, Mr. President already wanted to make one conclusion. I think we should just be a little more specific and maybe in this conclusion of ours. So, the reform of higher education, I think it's very important and important. And in our home as well as in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I did not notice that anyone was against reform, but we all supported the need for the reform to be implemented, to create a good legal framework that would ensure the implementation of all the relevant international documents that regulate this area and which BiH also signed and assumed as its commitment. However, we were confronted last night with the fact that the applicant did not sufficiently respect the interests and interests of all constituent peoples and delegates from the Croatian people expressed that the proposed solutions to the Framework Law were harmful to the vital interest. I think that the promoter should, as soon as possible, and keeping in mind all the discussions that took place in this House and in another home as well as in the commissions, and in various other statements of people who decide, therefore, representatives who decide on this and other laws in BiH, take into account and make such a proposal that will satisfy the demands that are being contested here. I think that one conclusion in this regard, in that direction, would be desirable although I believe that the Council of Ministers will certainly take into account all that I have said, but it may not be too much for us to conclude this and ask the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3160	I thank my colleague Jukić. I've got a report from a colleague of Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3161	Dear President and fellow envoys, I would just like to say very briefly that we should learn from this experience a proper lesson and in the future that we are not in a situation 6 that we are trying in a certain way to bring anti-constitutional legal solutions. So, in this respect, more energy is spent on agreeing, agreeing and not being able to question certain projects that are very important through the Constitutional Court. I also represent the view that it is very important that the new text of the law be sent to the regular parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, because this law is needed simply in this segment of reform is inevitable and is necessary for all. The solutions should be in the direction of my deep conviction of that spirit which has been delivered and in that letter that we received the day we called for vital interest, which was signed by the representatives of the international community, therefore both the World Bank and the OSC and the Council of Europe, which says that in the Mid-term, it is as well formulated as I recall, the plan to build up certain higher education institutions to the state level and address the problem of funding at the state level, and in one part of the non-judicial resolution that was addressed to us but not discussed, it also speaks of that element. I therefore propose that the conclusion that fellow Milojević formulated in the sense that the law was delivered to us in the procedure as soon as possible, and that we make the proposals to take care of the elements of the letter that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3162	I thank my colleague Limov. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here's my fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3163	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, I absolutely agree that this is an extremely important reform law and an extremely urgent law that should not be explained how important and urgent it is. Of course, the Constitutional Court's decisions are final and binding, so in all countries of the world and in BiH, and I think this Constitutional Court decision deserves multiple attention. It is absolutely true that, during the drafting of this law, a number of different views, opinions, both in public and in the Parliamentary Assembly, it is quite understandable. The way in which these opinions and attitudes can be respected, without being destructive by any nation, is written in the Constitutional Court Decision, indeed. The decision of the Constitutional Court which is general, which is thorough, should be carefully read and I think that in this law that I fully agree on, for this to be said, that no new mistakes should be repeated, that no process should be repeated, I think that the Council of Ministers should urgently prepare this important law on the content of the Constitutional Court Decision and I think that this should be a recommendation of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3164	I thank my fellow Genjac. No more reports. Then can I try to sublime what the four of us said? The proposal therefore commits to this conclusion, the Council of Ministers undertakes to prepare a new proposal for a higher education law as soon as possible, respecting the full interests of all constituent peoples in BiH and to state from in line with the Constitutional Court Decision because of the exceptional importance of implementing a reform of higher education in BiH. All right, I see you're all nodding. So we could now make a statement about it by voting and I apologize to Mr. Radovanović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3165	I felt the broader need to explain this about including the Constitutional Court's decision in this conclusion. I just said it. According to my interpretation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court had the authority to assess the procedural correctness in the process of expressing vital interest and expressed it in the first position of this decision. And for me, this second position is unnecessary at all, because if we accept the second position and all the other arguments of the Constitutional Court, then we are now proposing the protection of vital interest, and the decision on vital interest is made by the Constitutional Court. If you agree with that and if you think that's the case, then we accept this decision. I don't think so, and I don't accept it. I accept only the first position of this decision, where the court has established the procedural correctness and has ordered the vote to be voted under the vitality protection procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3166	Okay, thanks to my colleague Radovanović. You've also announced the possibility that I think we should make a statement about that proposal to the conclusion that I just defined it, sublime everyone's debates. So I am opening a vote on the proposal for this conclusion to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3167	Thank you very much for your word, I feel the need...only through what this distinguished colleague Radovanović mentioned. So it is his right to request interpretation as representative of the Constitutional Court's decision. For us here in Parliament, respecting the Constitution of BiH, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, irrefutable and binding. So if someone else thinks that the Constitutional Court should have acted differently, then it is the right to address it personally for the interpretation of certain provisions of the Constitutional Court. That's quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3168	That's what I understand. Here's Osman Brka. He wants to talk. No, giving up thanks. We're going to vote on the conclusion. I'm calling the vote, to conclude yes. It voted 12 for one abstention. I find that the conclusion has been adopted. We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is Add.4. Voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH pursuant to Constitutional Court Decision No: U-2/04 Who answers? 8 Niko one answers the word. We vote in line with the constitution as in the previous case, to get the law passed, it requires the consent of most bošnjački, Serbian and Croatian delegates present and voting. Who, I'm sorry, that's what I said, I remember saying changed and updated, if it's okay, my fellow Genjac. All right, now we can move on. We're voting on the law, you can vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3169	4 Bošnjak against, 4 Hrvat against and 4 Srbin for, did not pass the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3170	So the law didn't pass. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Intitut for Measurement/Metrology of BiH You have received a report from the Joint Commission, as referred to in Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives adopted a report at their 42nd session on July 27th 2004. Mr. Nada Radović, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3171	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the committee, to submit a report to the Joint Commission. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 9 June 2004 at its 38th session, adopted a proposal for a law establishing the BiH Institute of Measurement/Metrology, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers, with three amendments. At its 25th session on 29 June 2004, the people adopted the proposed text without amendments, the proposed text of the law. Given that the bill was not adopted in the same text, the Joint Commission reached an agreement on an identical text with the adoption of the proposed amendments to the House of Representatives and proposed that the House adopt this report and adopt the single text of the Bill establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology of BiH as agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3172	I thank you for the up-to-date and valuable new president of the commission. I'm opening a vote on the law. I find the committee's unanimous report adopted. This was actually a vote on the commission's report. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Intitut for Standardisation of BiH 9 You have received a report from the Joint Commission, under Article 95. Rules of Procedure, we must vote on the Joint Commission's report at both homes. The House of Representatives adopted this report at the 42nd session, held on July 27th 2004. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Vinko Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3173	So on behalf of the commission, the House of Representatives at the same session as the previous law adopted with six amendments. The people's home at the same session as the previous law with 1 amendment and the commission agreed on the text, reached an agreement on the same text, by adopting all 6 amendments to the House of Representatives and amendments to the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3174	I thank my colleague Radovanović, and since I no longer see those reported, we can vote on the commission's report. Now you can vote. Thank you, unanimous 13 for it. The commission's report was adopted. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a food law under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Therefore, a debate is being held, whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at the 41st session held on 14 July 2004. Who's answering with a word? There are no reports. I'm opening a vote. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Now you can vote. I find unanimously with 13 votes, that the request for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been passed. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, Add.8. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the law at the 42nd session held on 27 July 2004. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. 10 Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. With 13 for, I realize that the requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted unanimously. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and to assess compliance by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are under discussion whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the law at the 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a vote. 13 for. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered by a brief procedure has been adopted unanimously. Moving to the tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a law on the general safety of products by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at the 41st session on 14 July 2004. Who's answering for a word? No reports, thank you. I'm closing the hearing. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? You can vote. 1 didn't vote, 12 for. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered by a brief procedure has been unanimously adopted. Moving to point 11. Ad.11. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for an emergency pardon law in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines to discuss the law at their 41st session on 14 July 2004. Who's answering for a word? Niko, I'm closing the debate. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? 11 I'm opening the vote. 13 for, no one ardent, no one against. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered by a brief procedure has been unanimously adopted. Moving to agenda 12, Add.12. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Control of the BiH Market, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are under discussion, whether the law will be considered by a brief procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines to discuss the law at the 41st session held on 14 July 2004. I'm closing the debate because there's no record of a word, and I apologize for this brief technical consultation that I've had. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. The requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. We're moving to the next item of the 13th agenda, Ad.13. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of State Borders by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are under discussion, whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at the 42nd session held on July 27th 2004. I'm opening a debate. No Niko answered for the word. I'm closing the debate. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered under a reduced procedure has been adopted. Paragraph 14 of the agenda, Ad.14. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at the 42nd session held on July 27th 2004. 12 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm calling the vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered under a reduced procedure has been adopted. The 15th agenda, Ad.15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading, Proposer Representative House This is the first reading of the law and Article 90, you received the law as well as a report from the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 38th session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I would like to remind you that we have Mr. Gligorić present here on behalf of the promoter. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Who is in favour of having a debate in the first reading of members, who is in favour of having a debate? I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the law of first reading has been passed. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. I don't see any reports. Excuse me, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3175	Thank you very much for your word. I feel the need to say a few words only, related after the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted its report. The amendment was made to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They're amendments, so he's invested our College of the House of Peoples. The Commission did not declare itself in the amendments because, after longer discussions, the applicant was authorised, the Honorable colleague Pamuk withdrew the amendments to the College on our suggestion, with these amendments being able to go immediately to the next session under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations as a law on amendments and amendments to the laws that we will have, all for the reason that the House of Representatives held the debate in both the first and second readings and so on, we will now, if we accept without amendments, have today practically this law on amendments and additions to the law for reasons likely and respected fellow MP, Gligorić will say here on behalf of the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3176	I thank my colleague Filipović. Here's Mr. Gligorić, on behalf of the promoter, will speak to us, please, Mr. Gligorić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3177	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, distinguished delegates, respected guests, already Mr. Chairman has said enough and the proposer actually wanted the amendments to the law to the legal system of BiH, and yet this means that it was necessary to comply with the Law on State Service, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, and when we talk about principles, then this should have been settled when the Secretary of both Homes and Secretary of the Joint Service, as well as of course the Assistant Ministers. Since this was an intervention of Article 4, with the Secretary of the House and the Secretary of the Joint Service, it was necessary to bring this into line with the amendments and additions of the Law on Conflict of Interest, because those persons treat the Law of Conflict of Interest as election officials and not as civil servants. In this way, the promoter and, in that case, my smallness, because we agreed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, when we talked about the SIPE package to separate it and then we went separately and then we raised this issue and in this way we harmonised and respected the College of Representatives' House initiative which, in that sense, declared that this should be brought into line with the amendments and additions to the Law on Conflict of Interest. Of course, and the question was, compensation for a separate life. We have a new situation now, and this is when we talk about, say, the Agency for Direct Taxation and when we talk about the concession commission, that we already have institutions under the Law on Intellectual Labour in Mostar, then we have the Agency of Indirect Taxation in Banja Luka, we have a lot of things in Sarajevo. In order to enable quality personnel to perform their duties, not to pay half practically for accommodation, thus allowing these people to do so. And of course, the assistant ministers are also involved. It's actually said here, it's not a new law being introduced, but it's actually about the expiry of one deadline and where they had the right to do so. So that's how we removed this dilemma and extended that deadline. And of course, I think that the removal of one injustice to civil servants, workers who have higher school supplies, which are because the legislator has given such a standard, which applied only to two years, and yet this means that it has expired and that the norm was not objectively real, you know. And on the condition that someone enrolls that year, that they respect what many have done, objectively you couldn't finish it, you're just finishing the third year, and in this way by extending it to another two years, we've removed one such injustice against our workers and from the occasion, that was the essence of the amendments and the addition of this law. And of course this harmonisation that I was talking about at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3178	I thank my esteemed colleague Gligorić for giving specific clarifications ahead of the promoter. I don't see any charges here for discussion. I'm closing the debate. And we can put it out, so now we're talking about the law. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, 1 abstention, no one against. I find that the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. 14 We move to the 16th point of the agenda, which is, Ad.16. Proposal for a law on the use and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, Proposer Representative House, This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. You've received a bill as well as a report from the committee responsible. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 38th session. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of having a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. Thank you, colleague Čengić. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment, here's what the esteemed president of the commission says. I'm opening a debate, so will someone talk? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? I'm opening a vote. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, Ad.17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in BiH, first reading Therefore, this is the first reading of the law under Article 90 you have received the law as well as a report from the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives adopted the Consumer Protection Act in both readings in the proposed text at their 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. He's closing the debate. Who's in favour of having a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the commission. So this reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko answered. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law, who's to pass the law? I'm opening a vote. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. 15 I find the law adopted in the proposed text as well as at the House of Representatives. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. The proposal for a law on public procurement for Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading So this is the first reading of the law under Article 90. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. First, it is primarily about the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in both readings with 6 amendments at the 42nd session, held on July 27th 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko, I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of having a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone picking up? You have the word of a colleague named Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3179	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, firstly apologize for the delay for personal reasons, I find it justified. And secondly, I have to admit, I don't understand why we don't have amendments if we have amendments to that House. Can we get an explanation from the committee in charge, see if we could do something, so let's see if these amendments are acceptable to you to talk about maybe adopting in the same text. This is what it looks like too late now. We'll be in a situation where we'll probably pass the law in a different text, and I don't even know who the commission was here and then we have no idea whether these amendments might have been acceptable to us after all, the ones that passed through at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3180	The committee responsible, here I will try to answer, was chaired by the first deputy chairman, Mr. Brka. There were no amendments, and there's this one, the one that we have right now, and I think there's a way that this, you know, you just have to coordinate and fix. I give my word to Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3181	I mean... the amendment and it was adopted in the proposed text. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3182	I give my word to Mr. Velimir Jukić, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3183	Here I would, I was also a member of this committee and I was in session when we talked about this law, and I'm going to tell you what the atmosphere and the debate on the commission on this law was. The debate was but there were no amendments. And most of those or all those who answered the word, and commented on this law, were among them and I, satisfied with this law, both with the law's solution and with the law as a whole, its structure and clarity, precision, etc. And the commission then commended the promoter that he did a quality law with good solutions and also a law that is very clear, precise, here and for that reason the amendment simply wasn't because there were none.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3184	Hold on a second, gentlemen. May I have your attention, please? We have a clear procedure, all of this can be settled without any problems. I don't really see any reason for us to be exhausted right now. We, and I was on that committee. We considered all this what my colleague Jukić said and that was my opinion. So that this law is complete, in our opinion, they didn't think here, we're going to form a committee whether, to bring it together urgently and over. So, since there are no more reports, I'm opening a vote on the law. 14 for, no one abstention, no one against. I realize the law has been passed. Since the law in the two homes of our Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted in various texts, we should appoint members for the Joint Commission for text alignment. I'm asking the chiefs of the club to make a proposal for members of the commission. I know the Serbian Club already has a ready, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3185	The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr. Nadet Radović for the Commission for Consensus of the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3186	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3187	From the Croatian Club of Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3188	Thank you. The front of the Bosniak Club, Mr. Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3189	Mr. brkati. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3190	Mr. brkati, yes. Thank you. So, I'm opening a vote. Who is it to appoint Mr. Radović, Mr. Jukić, Mr. Brk, as members of the Joint Commission in front of the House of Nations? I'm calling the vote. 13 for, 1 against. I find that the composition of this committee has been adopted as we have read. We're going to the 19th item of the agenda, and that's Ad.19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes So this is the first reading of the law under Article 90. You received the law as a report from the committee responsible. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in both readings at the 42nd session, July 27, 2004 in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's to conduct a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. I would still repeat this vote after only nine of us voted. So, please, I'll repeat the vote, nine of us just voted. Who's in favour of adopting this law in our first reading? I'm opening a vote. 12 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the Law on Administrative Taxes was adopted in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You have a report from the commission. So here is the debate on amendments and the vote is on the law. We didn't have an amendment. Who's calling for a racquetball? Niko. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. Open vote. 12 for, therefore, I find that the law is adopted in the proposed text as well as the House of Representatives. 20th agenda, Add.20. Proposal for a law amending the Law on temporary postponement from the execution of an application based on executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the BiH institution and international obligations, first reading This is the first reading of the law. You've been given the law as a report from the competent commission in '90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. At the 42nd session, July 27th 2004, the House of Representatives passed a law in both readings with one amendment, which reads - in article 1 behind the words, June 30th, is replaced by words, November 30th. 18 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Nada Radović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3191	Madam Chairman, the Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs of the People's House discussed the proposed text of the proposal for a law on the temporary postponement of the application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget institution of BiH, and adopted unanimously the draft law and forwarded it to a further parliamentary procedure. However, we need to realize that we have here for technical reasons to say in our proposal on 30 June, however, we, considering the commission, accepted 30.11. But formally there was no proposed amendment. So we can take it under technical error.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3192	I give my word to Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3193	That's what Mr. Nada Radović said, that's true. That was the way it was on the committee, and I think that's how it's supposed to be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3194	So in Article 1 instead of the word - June 30th, it should stand – November 30th, or 11. Yes, but technically it hasn't been changed, the rest is June 30th. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3195	I wasn't on the committee, but as far as I know, we were already here at the House discussing it, and there was just a debate about it because it was debate 29th, we discussed it on June 29th, and it's the 30th day. We said it would be pointless to adopt a law that's up until tomorrow, and then we agreed that it would be at least until June 3rd, and I remember this detail so much that I don't know what happened on the committee, but I mean this really needs to be adopted, treated like a technical mistake, otherwise it's pointless to adopt a law that no longer applies.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3196	Here you go, colleague Brka, I'm in favour of getting out of this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3197	Just so it's clear what happened. On the committee, Mr Pamuk discussed that it was against it, but we adopted it, because Mrs. Minister was at our meeting and she came to explain why it was necessary. I mean, there's nothing, this is a 100% mistake in the press, nothing else. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3198	I thank my colleague, Brk. That's probably because this word in all three languages is said differently, November 11th. Uh, I see my colleague Limov called, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3199	Thank you. I had discussed this topic on 29.06. and then I realized that really this, additional commission engagement would be in the direction of prolonging the deadline because it's pointless, take what date today is, that we're passing a law that is, it doesn't make any sense. I'm experiencing it really until 30.11. And I'd like to pray that in that sense we simply plead. There's no dilemma. We can commit a technical or other mistake, but in any case we need to accept it by 30.11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3200	I would like to thank my colleague Liov for his constructive discussion. I don't see any more reports. Who's in favour of having a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. 12 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You've received a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the hearing. There were no reports. So we'll vote on the law. I'm opening a vote, now. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the law has been passed in the same text as the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda, which is Ad.21. The proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina This law is in our first reading, according to Article 90 you received the law as a report from the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 42nd session on July 27th 2004. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Are you answering? Excuse me, I apologize to my colleague Filipović. I apologize. You have the President's word. The competent commission, the Law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH, Mr. Čengić, come in. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3201	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, at 22nd, 27th, and then on 28th, discussed the law. 27. We had this law on the agenda, however, as there were no proposing representatives, the debate was postponed for 28th and yesterday, with the presence of all the amendment's proposings, we had a debate on both the principles and the amendments. It seemed to me 35 amendments, 28 of which were adopted, or a larger number was adopted, but in the end some referred to the same member, so it came out at the end of 28. So, there's been a very extensive debate. And if you allow it very briefly, I would talk in this section only about principles and principles. So it is that last year a commission was formed at the level of the Council of Ministers which was tasked with entering reforms in the area of the Public TV Service in such a way as to say that the level of broadcasting and the content of the programme on BHTV and, on the other hand, to raise all three broadcasters, so BHTV and the Public Radio Service of the Federation and RS, are in a position to have certain, equal standards and criteria for functioning and at the same time to establish corporations that will work in a way that there will be a service or service for all three services. When it comes to the issue of debate, we have had very many amendments but we have also had the views of experts from the Council of Europe who participated in the preparation and work of this law and in the special debate on these two laws, a kind of public debate, put together a number of objections as well as a number of distinguished colleagues. As far as the law itself is concerned, it has been assessed on the Commission itself as a good basis, an acceptable basis for making a final version of the law, and such an assessment has been obtained in written form and by the European Commission, which has also put its, or Council of Europe, which has put its observations, so it has been assessed that, in addition to amendments that can be discussed, this law first modernises the existing way of functioning. Secondly, it brings public broadcasters and broadcasters into a position to meet European standards, so standards of European criteria, which are very precise and prescribed and at the same time meet the standards of so-called. Televisions without borders and other standards, therefore, of a kind of European so-called cross-border broadcasting. Standards for broadcasting TV programs across borders. All in all, it is that this law has received a positive assessment, with the view that it is necessary to intervene with amendments. The Commission was also informed that the House of Representatives, i.e. the Transport and Communications Commission of the House of Representatives, had discussed this law earlier, and had adopted a significant number of amendments, I think over 20 which the Council of Ministers said were mostly acceptable to the Council of Ministers. For this reason, it is a busy position to discuss yesterday following the established principles that are said to exist, a position taken to discuss amendments as well. It is my view that today we should discuss principles and principles, but that no amendments should be discussed today, given that it is a large number of amendments adopted on the commission, which I hope so far have been shared with colleagues. I expect that some of the amendments that were proposed on the committee yesterday and not accepted will be renewed, so I think it would be good to agree today to discuss the principles and principles of both this law and the next law, while agreeing that we will not discuss the amendments today. So, no 21, we're going to go to another reading because it will certainly take these, colleagues to have the opportunity to see what has been accepted by the amendments and then those who are not satisfied with the team to repeat their amendments eventually. And finally, thirdly, it is quite certain that further efforts will be needed to bring this law into line. I say most of the amendments have been accepted, and as far as I understand yesterday's session, when the question is, when the principles and principles of this law are questionable, I am not talking about a law that is under the next item of the agenda, it is accepted I mean uniquely, which means that all my colleagues are representatives of all three people present in the commission who considered this law to be a good basis for further consideration. It might be useful to hear Mr Dokić's presence, Minister of Transport, communication at the Council of Ministers, perhaps even his brief commentary. Of course, in this opening part, we might be able to talk for a long time about whether it could have been like this, whether what I could say as an undivided opinion of the Commission, regardless of the possibilities, regardless of the variations that started, so regardless of the different perhaps positions, and the different situation that is currently in BiH, when this issue is on the agenda, we agreed on the commission that the basis and principles on which this law was done are acceptable for all, on the one hand and on the other hand, to satisfy therefore, the basics and standards. There will likely be discussions later, on certain solutions to which the amendments work. So they also meet the basic principles and standards of the EU and since this is the law of the Implementation Study, so from that package 40 and this and the next one, they are certainly important and I say perhaps we should hear the opening presentation of Mr. Minister who was involved, he was at the head of this task force, and yesterday he was extremely active this one, on the Commission itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3202	I thank the chairman, Mr. Čengić. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to say that today is also foreseen, therefore, only in the first reading. You know the principle that we established at the beginning of this call to the House of Peoples, that we will not go before the House of Representatives, given that they have considered this law also in the first reading, so we will consider it only in the first reading. I welcome Minister Dokić, who joined us here and who is in office before the promoter. I certainly give my word to Mr Filipović, who has been reported neatly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3203	Thank you very much for your word. So I have a little bit of a different opinion than all this said by a respected colleague, Čengić, compared to the Law on the Public System. Since the Law on Public Service, as well as the entity laws on public services of entities, is necessary to comply with this System Law, I think it is an inseparable package and I would ask that we conduct a united debate on both one law and another, to hear the position of the relevant committee on the principles and this other law, to hear then this, authorised proponent, respected Mr. Dokić, and to open the debate on the principles. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3204	Here, I have consulted with the members of the Kolegijum, we think this proposal is acceptable to Mr Filipović. Mr. Čengić, did you get that? Excuse me, he's got a fellow Genjac before you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3205	..interventions, debaters after the commission and proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3206	Mr. Čengić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3207	Of course, this idea isn't new to me. We talked about it yesterday on the committee. It is true that these two laws form a whole and actually one cannot be applied without the other. It's also true that as many laws as they are related to each other, they argue one by one, and I was very precise. So, without any mistakes, there's grace I said, and I'm sure of it. So the basis and principles for this law are unanimously accepted, for this law. They're not for the next law. I understand the need to discuss the whole, but I think that we will have different tones in the debate both this and the next law and my proposal and the suggestion is that we continue to discuss this first and the next law and the debate on the next law, we can possibly refer to this, because in this law there was no difference in principles. There were amendments but there was no difference in principles. In that next law, there was a difference in the principles that also appeared in the vote not only on amendments but also on the law, after the amendments were accepted, or rejected. So, for this reason, respecting the fact that the laws are extremely connected and that they cannot be applied without each other, my suggestion is for a reason because I can foresee certain arguments and discussions, so for a reason we try to discuss the principles and principles of this law first, and then especially about that next law, which is the next item of the agenda. So whoever thinks we should connect, the next law to this, can come back, of course, but I don't think it would be a good idea to mix up the concepts now and to pass any differences with respect to both laws equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3208	Thank you, Čengić. Here I have nothing left to do but stick to the agenda, so on this 21st point, we have proposed a law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH. So we have it in our first reading and does anyone else want to discuss it from the delegates before we give the word to Mr. Secretary? Here's Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3209	Dear colleagues, honored guests, we are talking today about an extremely important reform law and before this result ahead of us, a large period of intensive work has undoubtedly passed by a group of people who have been trying to solve an area that has long burdened the public in BiH. It is known that the area of public broadcasters and public broadcasting is extremely sensitive and extremely significant. It is known that in BiH it was 23 subjects of various experiments and a number of foreign representatives. We'll probably be able to evaluate the results of that experiment after a few years and I'll estimate, I dare say that the results of that experiment haven't always been the happiest. For these reasons, and for other reasons, it is very important that, as soon as possible, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly regulates this area in a way that ensures the highest standards of relevant European documents in this area, conventions, agreements, declarations, etc. The group that was preparing the bill, I would say in a not-so-relax atmosphere. There have also been burdens from previous experiences, there have been demands and certain lobbies, there have been efforts to retain existing relations, I say all of this by observing the text of the proposals we have received, because all these efforts have in some way resulted in the proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH. Of course, objectively speaking, this group that prepared this law at the end of the Council of Ministers has nevertheless taken a significant step forward and we have a result to respect. The highest number of European standards have been respected, the Convention has even respected the principles of the European Convention on Cross-border Television, which we made a decision a few days ago to ratify, and so is the basic principles of programming principles, advertising, relationships and so on. they are generally respected in accordance with European standards. I say, therefore, that this is a big step taken, however, and of course it should be appreciated, but I can't help unprobleming the bird's question whether it's a sufficient step. In fact, point 16b) on the feasibility of BiH-EU negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is short and clear. I have to read it – take steps to ensure long-term sustainability of the financial and editorial independent, single TV system of BiH, whose components of the RTV houses will share the joint emissions and transmission infrastructure. So two questions have been raised. The financial, editorial and independent single TV system of BiH, and the other thing, which has been focused, the system's composite RTV house, should share a joint emissions and transmission infrastructure. This is a condition ahead of us. On the basis of the fulfilment of this condition or not met, the feasibility of Stabilisation and Association Negotiations will be assessed. If you take it carefully, of course by respecting all this environment in which the group was doing the law, if you carefully read the content of the law, I don't think the proposed text meets this condition, and I think we're going to have any problems here. Why? What was meant to meet this role and this goal of BiH's single TV system, etc. It was the fourth subject, this is the corporation for which it has a basis both in the Constitution and in a series of documents to form, which we have accepted as an obligation to form, and it is established as a fourth legal entity. However, due to the burden on the assets that exist, the assets of federal television transferred to state television, the assets of RTRS that are assets of the Government of the RS that cannot be transferred, which are not known whether, the assets that have been transferred, transferred, bought and so on. which should probably take a lot of time to make it all clear and that it is all understood what it is, probably in the light of these burdens, we get a sophistication that is treated in the bill, some powers are listed in individual members, that corporation that is needed to achieve this unique system, however, in the same law in other places, those members, these powers, these corporations are relatable, lead to ambiguity, and in a number of cases the powers of the corporation come into place to even ask whether they can perform and will be able to perform them. 24 Public TV services in BiH because of the consensus that passes through the system, through the whole concept of the law, because of the consensus of decision making to the corporation, means that every public service in BiH has the right to veto, every public service must be asked about everything, and it does not actually ensure that we have a single public TV system in BiH, but that we have the potential to have three unique radio TV services in BiH, with a series of worrying possibilities that this will all work, and that it will be able to function. It is unclear, it is not clear enough to end clearly, firmly, precisely, and financing the corporation, it is not until the end of an unambiguously precise, without the possibility of distraction, without the possibility of contesting the established way of functioning, decision-making and efficient work of the corporation and all of that, it seriously raises the question of a concept that, if certain repairs are not carried out, will it at all be a concept that meets this 16b) a condition from the Performance Study. Of course, this condition of 16.b) in the Implementation Study is not set here for the reasons of someone's imagination, for the sake of someone's luxury, it is very clear here for the reasons of rationality, the usual principles, the economic opportunities of BiH and the conditions in which the citizens of BiH are located, so it is extremely important to meet this condition and I, unfortunately, express my concern that this bill, if the principles of working, financing, functioning of a single TV system, is the thinking corporation, which identifies it and which enables it, if this is not resolved, I do not think this bill will be assessed in a way to meet the conditions. I felt the need for this in basic principles, by discussing the law in its basic principles, to say, hoping and believing that, when we adopt the amendments, we will have enough elements, thinking, yes, perhaps a little more seriously to look at this condition from the Performance Study and maybe, perhaps, try that last effort, as well as so far... the law to make this law better in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3210	I thank my fellow Genjac. Who wants to talk from the delegates? I don't see any reports. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3211	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I expected the Minister of Resolute to say something, but here I will, and if I was more advocate of the idea that Mr Filipović put forward to talk and conduct a debate on the principles and principles of the set for both of these laws, however, we can also separate, but, of course, there will be repetitions. But here's what's there. Gospdin Genjac has brought out some kind of vision and worrying solutions here. I believe that the legislator, or working group, who later became the Council of Ministers, did not make a law, which is logical and which is consistent and whose solutions complement each other, therefore, in this law. So it's not quite clear the position and role of individual entities in this system. I am not sure that it will allow quality system functioning in this way solved mutually, in my view unclear relationships and definitions. But what concerns me most is the fact that most of the international documents, which regulate this matter, and in the light of this law, 25 are listed 8 or 9. I have, of course, studied them and found that the largest part of these recommendations, the directive or which already have a name is not included and that our law, or laws, do not meet the conditions set, and I dare say, is my assessment, that these laws are neither small nor sufficiently harmonised and have no solutions in line with the solutions in the countries of the European Union or other developed countries in the world. I'm particularly worried about not respecting some of these international documents. Like. to ensure a quality and complete system of information, which means one quality infrastructure, coverage of the whole territory, a clear relationship between repairers, a clear position of them, and especially in that part, but it is in that second law, however, I have to highlight it, so I will talk about it a little more when there is a topic, what is defined is not enough and, in particular, about the programming scheme, is not in the spirit of the nion minimum requirements, which I have mentioned in these documents. And that's why I'm worried that we're giving grades here, or some are giving grades, what good solutions they are. Of course, even here the representatives of the international community have given their opinion, which is good about these solutions and I do not know from their opinions, someone is reading it or commenting, someone is reading it in another way. I read them in a way that, in my opinion, these solutions didn't get a passing grade. Of course, these solutions are also a step forward in reforming this system. But I think it's not good enough. When comments are read more precisely, then there are observations about all the solutions. It's very interesting, and in the end it's said again, because if it were, as a whole, it would have been a negative assessment. She's gone. I believe that this time, which has been spent on making these bill proposals, is yet, in one wrong way, spent and done, is very specific. I believe that a wider community or people or representatives should have been involved in this job. There, except for the people of this branch and profession, are certainly interested in the public. Because there is no more important question, or there are few important questions besides human rights and freedoms, of one important question, or segment of these rights, is a matter of information. All citizens of this country, any nationality, sex, faith, social standing, etc. They are very interested in being well and well informed, because good and quality information depends on a lot of things in every auction in the world. In BiH, of course, too. I therefore believe that other interested, organised and even informed groups should be included in the design of these legal projects, the proposals, and even informed to some appropriate extent and the way and the representatives of this house. Unfortunately, from that debate that was conducted on our respective committee, the situation had already been seen and recorded, the debate had already been held quite long and very interesting and at the House of Representatives of our Parliament and it was seen what basic things or details were, and sometimes not just details, but principles and principles in which no agreement and consensus had been reached. I won't talk about the details, I'll bring my speech to an end. I think that there was another way to work, and if it was done differently, we would certainly have a better and better-quality solution. I'm also setting myself up as a right, at least I'm going to try to fight it, and at other points we're talking a little bit more detail, especially about the service, their roles and their defined positions, but here's my general assessment that those most important principles, therefore, quality of good information and assumptions, are not created by such a legal project and a solution, and I think we need to work this out, in the sense that we can't put it all together anymore, but more of those norms and requirements that the international community has given us, i.e. those contained in the documents that we call for in the explanation of the solutions given in this law. And 26 I will repeat, the vast majority of them are not inconsistencies, but most of them are not even involved in these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3212	I thank my colleague Jukić. Now, of course, I'm going to give my word, and I thought that one more of the delegates would, so that the minister could answer everyone. Mr. Minitre, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3213	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, I will try in the shortest lines to comment, here you have decided to be this first law and, if indeed, there was a basis and logic for both of these projects to be treated at the same time, the discussions went towards it. Mr. Jućić's discussion was more about the second part than the first part. How else to interpret the fact, if it is known that HDZ has submitted two amendments, one to this first law, and the other to the second, that the amendment to the first law has been adopted. I, indeed, don't see the basis for so much disputing this first law. Why didn't you say what was very specific? Therefore, there was a basis for this to be discussed in the package and if it should be voted individually. I have to tell you that the task force, which worked on this, which, consisted of, here were three ministers, who were the only political figures in that task force and there were 12 other members of the task force, that's not a small task force at all, the rest were in office. Presidents of public service boards, one Srbin, one Hrvat and one Bošnjak, director of public services, one Bošnjak, one Hrvat, one Srbin, advisers of the three ministers, then, two members, two ladies were mostly members and representatives of the OHR and one or two members of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. So, this task force was working on the law, and I have to be glad to find out that we came to a draft of the law, which was passed to the Council of Ministers, who, to the soul after having suffered a lot of changes in the phase until it was adopted at the Council of Ministers' session, so that there was no fact that the law, the Council of Ministers, came to the Council of Ministers, as someone, came through this debate for two or three days at a session, so come on, here's quick to see what we're going to do. At least a month and a half of the law was in the process between a meeting of the Council of Ministers between the return of the Commission, between the Committee on Economics, which eventually sat completely and after a seven-hour debate came up with a draft adopted at the Council of Ministers. We had a framework in which they had to stop the solutions that were envisaged. This framework is, of course, like any other law of the country's constitution, the other is the existing legislation, and I mean not only the law of this area, but other laws, you cannot make one law without it respecting the legislation of other laws, where it is based. So when I say that, I mean the service law that we now have, of course, that one. The third is European, European standards and recommendations and conditions from the Performance Study, which someone here quoted. Fourthly, there was one agreement between the three prime ministers and a high representative with some points yet to be specified. So it was a framework that we had to fill and within which we moved. 27 Since we had one law imposed by the High Representative and immediately to say, this is the first law, which our institutions adopt, the Council of Ministers, and then, here are both the homes of the BiH Parliament. All the laws in this area so far have been imposed. You'd know that. There is one analysis on these laws of the Council of Europe's May 2002 experts, one similar analysis, which we have studied well. The first thing we did, we gave these experts to analyse all the objections made to this existing law and to see what could be built in and we installed almost everything. Thanks to this very approach and studying new documents, which were made under the Committee of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Europe. Here, we made a bill. For who? Experts from the Council of Europe, they say. The three experts were here in Sarajevo and in Unis' building we had a whole day round table on the subject of the law, we analyzed all day, and I'll just read it to you so I don't interpret it, as the general comment here says and then there's details. So, I quote - experts generally praised this draft and said it is generally in line with the relevant European standards. Respecting this assessment, experts stressed that it is of great importance to ensure the independence of public radio television services, and I will return to this, public radio television services, not systems. There is no such thing as uniqueness and independence of the system. Therefore, the importance of ensuring the independence of public radio television services and their editorial independence, without political interference. In this context, the procedure for nominating board members and the procedure for appointing the Director-General by board members should be followed as closely as possible by the existing rule of law. So there's always that possibility of influence and they say come on, try to stick to this and there'll be a time in choosing these structures. In the context of this feasibility study, one of the questions that Dr. Genjac mentioned, is probably an unfortunate translation, where it says a unique TV system, editorial independence. There is no system editorically independent, the system is not concerned with editing the program. The Service is dealing with it. There's a corporation in the system that's technical. We are in order not to bring any question, Article 4, in which the independence of public services is defined, completely from letter to letter, not from word to word, from letter to letter, from the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers, that recommendation is 96/10 or 10/96, however you will. So, completely according to European standards. Please don't talk about signal coverage here and talk about European standards. Absolutely that there are problems, that here I know in Banja Luka about 15 km from Banja Luka, there are areas where there is no signal from the RTV RS, and there is, for example, an example. Croatian TV, three of them. I'm not making any objection, that's our problem, but that question is not regulated by law. How can you regulate the law, so here you say, we've met the world's standards, here we have coverage of this much or so. Normally, services have to do this and they'll be put in a position if they want to survive, cover because they won't, they won't be able to charge a fee. So it'll have to work. So, with these comments, I would really ask to take care of what the law needs to embrace and what it is to say by saying the consequences of another condition. Look, everything can be a problem, so it can be a problem of what's going to happen to this fourth legal entity, how it's going to work, absolutely. Niko one here can guarantee that it will be in one way or another, but the law provides an opportunity. I can't agree with Dr. Genjac when he says, it's all left on as he said, it seems to me to question even giving veto service, absolutely not, only for three points is it said that the Committee of the 28 systems is making a decision this, by consensus, only for three and when it comes to the question of property. When the question is now that I literally translate it into a technical dictionary, when asked if one service will give one of its cameras to the corporation that it manages it and that it schedules whether it will today give it to this service and another time to the debt. It's just these questions, and what else? They have three issues which, therefore, through the management of assets, technical resources and advertising, are brought through consensus. All the other questions and you see, look at point six. The Committee shall make a decision by simple majority. So there's no blocking. If these provisions of the laws applicable to the corporation are implemented as they are, with the corporation we will get significant in terms of the efficiency of the system as a whole, because it will cheaper the human resources, because it will reduce the total administration around it, cheapen the technical resources, because individual infrastructure facilities will especially in this transmission area, be able to be joint, the powers will be used jointly because they will significantly cheape the system of maintenance of the special transmission infrastructure. So, just these functions, if they're satisfied, the corporation will play a significant role and make a significant contribution, not to say how many other things there are that are defined here. Maybe that's how much about this first part. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take the other part just as a brief review so that you can ask questions based on it. From this, well, I don't mind, I'm here to respect the home order that you define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3214	Well, I don't exactly agree with Mr. Čengić's warning, because I don't see any reason, we didn't argue once, but here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3215	I'm sorry I reacted, but I wanted you to do it, Mr. Chairman, for one reason only. Dear colleagues have already proposed that we discuss this together, and we have agreed to divide it by dots. I understand the reasons of my colleagues why they insisted on it. I understand the minister's notion that it's technically simpler that he doesn't show up twice, but I am convinced that it will be necessary for the minister to show up one more time and perhaps more than once about this other point. So, I apologize for reacting, but I expected you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3216	Mr. Genjac, you've reached out, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3217	I, of course, need to react no, out of need or out of trying to lead some controversy, but in order to clarify communication, I still have to react. I don't think it's a mistranslated condition 16b) from the Physibility Study, because it's been a figure of official translation and circulation of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers for eight months now in various... And I think it was very clear what was said and said what was meant, a financial, editorial, independent, unique RT system of BiH. Of course, the TV system as well as the corporation as the fourth subject does not produce the program and of course not 29 edits the program. However, the editorial independence of each entity within the system is ensured by the editorial independence of the entire system and was thought to do so. Because if every subject in the system is editorially independent, otherwise, then the whole system is not editorially independent, and we have a situation that is here, every subject will be in the system independent, but in another way, slightly different independent. One independent of this, addicted, etc. This, of course, is also a region in which there is no need for us to enter but I cannot simply agree that 16b) is a condition for the physibilities of the study. Furthermore, it is clear that every question can be problemed, I agree completely with my colleague Belkić, but the role of the law and the rules is that as much regulation as possible, so as not to be disturbed. And the role of this system law was supposed to be, to regulate the functioning of the corporation, that I can't trouble her at any moment and any of us can trouble her at any moment and in any solution and she really, I don't see how it's going to work this way. And the role of the law is to solve, regulate, establish and not be troubled. I agree that the consensus was introduced only in terms of advertising, asset management and resources. But that's three things where the corporation decides and there's a consensus and these are the things where every service has a veto right. The other number of powers in item 6. votes, coordinated, b) coordinate legal, co-ordinate, c) coordinate use, d) cooperates on technical development, e) ensure common, c) develops strategy, d) enables, l) coordinate with resources, n) coordinate business plans, enables, coordinate, facilitate, co-ordinate, co-operate, co-operate, these are corporate powers, where there is no need for consensus. I remain at the point of view that unless the amendments are clarified, specified, made unequivocal and functional, the role of the corporation and the single RT system of BiH, we will not meet the conditions of the feasibility of the study under point 16.b) which is very clearly stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3218	Mr. Minister, because of the stenogram, it would still be good if you came out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3219	So when these first words were read in these powers, then they could be read and sold, produced, performed, obtained, provided etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3220	Okay, thanks. We're out of press releases. I therefore propose, we will now declare the proposal for a law on the Public TV System of BiH in the first reading. So who's in favour of having a discussion about members? I'm opening a vote. It's the first reading, we'll repeat the vote, only seven votes. This is the definition from the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm reopening the vote, as only seven delegates voted. You can vote now. 11 for, 2 against. I find the law was passed in the first reading. 30 We move to the 22nd point of today’s agenda, that is Ad.22. Proposal for a Law on Public Radio Television Service BiH, This is also the first reading, according to Article 90 you received the law, just a little bit, we will still move to the agenda point. So we move to the 22nd point this is in the first reading, so the Law on Public Radio Television Service BiH, you've received the law as well as the report from the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading at the 42nd session, held on July 27th 2004. I'm opening a debate. I'd like to ask the rapporteur, or the president of the committee, yes, I'll give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3221	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, during yesterday's 22nd session, the commission discussed this second law and, therefore, the Law on Public Radio Television Service, is proposed by the Council of Ministers. This, as well as that regular law, was referred to by a number of comments and suggestions from Council of Europe experts. We had a significant number of amendments from our distinguished colleagues from this House, Mr Genjac, Mr Jukić, Spajić, I think Mr Radović and Mr Brk. We had a very dynamic debate, a debate that brought out completely conflicting views on the principles and principles of this law, in which the Council of Ministers' representative, Minister Dokić, presented the position of the Council of Ministers. He was, of course, quoting the views from the letter of the Council of Europe which assessed this as well as the previous law of good, and in accordance with standards, in principle, in line with standards, while on the other hand, Colga Jukić, and then also a colleague of Spajić, assessed that this law is in fact directly contrary to the interests of the Croatian people. After an entirely open correct debate, it joined the vote on principles and principles and we received a situation where most accepted principles and principles but I should say here for the objectivity of information, that our colleagues from the Croatian Club of MPs were not in favour of such a solution, or they did not vote on the contrary, so they did not consider the principles and solutions acceptable. In the second part, we discussed this law, we talked about amendments, we had a very extensive debate, we had a significant number of amendments. In a number of amendments, we agreed and accepted them and at the same time agreed with the House of Representatives, but in some, in my view, very significant amendments, therefore significant to the law, because they would fundamentally and fundamentally change the concept of the law and at the same time in some other ones which are also very significant amendments, are not accepted, so I expect colleagues who had amendments, and their amendments to repeat. I would just like to say one thing, so for the most part, the commission has accepted that this law, this text of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers, meets the principles and principles. In other words, it is the basis for further work. I believe there will be a lot of discussions and a lot of discussions about this law, and I am already ready to say the following. Since these laws are, therefore, speaking, because I am talking about the second one, I am talking about the package, since these laws of Package 16 are about the feasibility study, which should definitely be passed by 30.09 this year, and since 31 I expect here to be a very serious debate today, and then also in the follow-up discussion of these laws when we move on to another reading of amendments, I think it will take a lot of patience and I would really like to do so if we can not only show enough patience but also determination to find a solution before 30 September. I wouldn't want to experience something that's not difficult to predict if we came into a position where we'd block the adoption of these laws and probably extend it for a very long time after that. On karate, I'd like to say, that I don't think that by discussing any of the details of any amendment individually, I believe that the matter treated by this law, and the matter treated by some of the amendments that have not been accepted is extremely important, and I believe that we should start with two principles. The first is that the equality of the people and the right of the people to be equally presented and to have equal presence with public services, and to be equally presented both in terms of national culture, both in terms of national language and other values of national, is an unquestionable issue. On the other hand, I don't think it's a good idea to just insist on just one single model and if this model of ours that we prefer or represent, or we want to see it applied, doesn't accept that we reject the whole concept. I believe, and I am convinced that there are solutions that are proposed between these two. So between the bill, which we are currently talking about, which was given by the Council of Ministers, the commission accepted as the basis for the proposed amendments that there is one medium solution that can be satisfactory for all. Which will really contribute to a real reform and I am now joining the need for reform and there is no dilemma that in this text of the law, this reform is not entirely done but there is no dilemma that this text of the law as it is offered is a step beyond what we currently have on the ground. So I think that this debate on principles, first of all, and after that, especially about amendments, we need to make as much effort as possible in this room, and in some further discussions, to find solutions that are acceptable, to make this reform, to pass the law, and at the same time no one gets the impression that because these laws are passed and adopted, is majorized. On the other hand, I don't think that by means of one solution alone, we'd be in a position to make others happy. For that reason, I'm holding that, too, that I can say some kind of unconceived conclusion from this session, I'm holding that we need to talk about this law, until we get a solution, and I don't want to go in which direction, to look for solutions outside this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3222	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Who's answering for a word, next? Mr. Filipović. You're looking for a break, aren't you? Okay, here's my break for an hour. 32...here with this agenda point, 22. [[PAUZA]] Proposal for a Law on Public Radio Television Service BiH. In our first reading, we consider it. I'm expecting reports from a fellow delegate. Here's my word to my colleague Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3223	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow MPs, Mr. Minister and the other present, gentlemen of the media, so I would say a few words, and I would like to start with one finding, to express my satisfaction with this finding presented by Mr. Čengić, that here we hope and expect that we will come to a stage in which we will still be able to pass and start passing laws here without help from outside, without the help of others, but in this house, and not with the help of, uh, and suggestions and guidance outside of this house. So, I'll be happy when that moment comes, when we can all be here like Parliament. We are now talking about the principles of this second law, so the Law on Public Service, but it must be hard to talk only about the Public Service and not speak and not touch the question of this law on the Public System. Perhaps before this, one of my observations that a great deal of effort has been put into the preparation of one and another legal act, that we have heard the presentation of Mr. Minister, but so let him not take it as personal but as a general remark by Mr. Dokić. We are often able here to hear complaints about why you remember like this, why you've touched this, why you're touching the structure, why you're touching the concept of the law, etc. So this is something that very often legislators of the law are hypersensitive to what is being done in Parliament. I'd just say one thing. So this is Parliament, so part of Parliament, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is the only one responsible when the law sees the light of day and is published in the Official Journal, according to all those to whom the law applies. The Parliamentary Assembly is the sole responsibility to the public and is therefore autonomous in its work. So, that autonomy, therefore, is it the Council of Ministers or some independent individual proposal from the MPs in our Rules of Procedure, is always a struggle of defense, the concepts of this law, regardless of who thinks, and then anger at a large number of repairs, of amendments made by MPs. I think of you nicely, so this is something that is not in nature, it is not in line with the role of Parliament as a single authority, therefore, at the level of the state of the only and greatest in the legislative way of deciding. It's something that certainly bothers all of us here a little bit when we're being objected by the promoter, why we're touching the concept. Please, this Parliament, for each law, determines the goal, determines the means to achieve...the goal, determines the structure, determines the concept of this, the law and the only one responsible later for what it has adopted as a legal act. And as for the motionors, in this case specifically the vijća of Ministers, it is his to monitor the implementation of the rules adopted by Parliament. It's something that, therefore, I felt a little anger because there were a lot of different approaches. So these different approaches and these confrontations are the responsibility of this Parliament to those to whom this law applies. It is a responsibility to the state, a responsibility as the highest legislative body, for all those whose rights and obligations are defined in such a single legislative project. 33 So, I felt the need as a legalist to say something to this, so don’t take it personally because I followed very closely a very qualified, very this, clearly stated position on behalf of the promoter, you as a resolute minister. This sensitivity is present with us, it will still be when Parliament definitely ceases to make decisions, under pressure from certain political needs, day-to-day policy options, etc. When he thinks only about the reflection, the application of that law, in the country where the law was passed, then there will be one different climate. However, the climate or atmosphere is slightly different and there is a clear attitude towards this situation in BiH. So, I would say that a huge effort has been made to prepare these two legislative projects, that they are, as with all the objections to them, but better than the imposed law by the High Representative, and that these solutions are certainly especially when it comes to the system being a passing solution, I just said, when we reach what the Council of Europe insists on and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Union, that the BiH state will be regulated at three degrees, that the fourth stage be the European Union, so that this is local self-government, region, state and Council of Europe, then this demode, the Law on the System, and this system will be a little different, and we will have certainly and differently defined relations within the future, I am again speaking futuristly, this Public Television Service. The promoter, therefore, the Law on Public TV Service, is not in my court, sufficiently precise or I would say clearly follow certain binding constitutional provisions of BiH and certain standards of international law, which must have been contained, regardless of the appeal, on a number of recommendations, the directive on which Mr Jukić and others spoke, namely international legal acts guaranteeing human rights insurance under equal conditions for all. And that's just what I'm saying from the perspective, equality and the use of official languages in public power media programs, which we called the Public BH RT Service. Because of these, therefore, we have responded specifically to Article 9 of this Law. So, for example, we have article 14. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This article warns us that we must ensure that rights and freedoms are enjoyed by the Convention, without discrimination on any basis between which the right to language is. At the same time, Article 2 paragraph 1 of the general declaration of human rights clearly states that all rights and freedoms declared in this declaration, without any difference as regards race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property of birth or other circumstances, etc. So, not to call on others yet, I believe that my colleagues behind me will also mention more concrete examples of some of the other international legal acts mentioned in the explanation of both the law and the other. So the proposal for this Law on Public TV Service, as well as the proposal of this first law, which I mentioned, left one possibility for the dispositive free will of the authorities and, at all, the management structure of the BH TV service of the future, to simply take the cantar into their own hands, when and how many of the official languages will be heard in the Public TV media programmes, and when and how much respect will be given to the national, regional, traditional, religious, cultural and intrinsics already mention this, characteristics and specific human rights, therefore, constituent peoples and all BiH citizens. That's this one, this one free will is to use these rights, mostly languages. So for the Croatian people, it is absolutely unacceptable in the solutions offered and represents one legitimate danger of manipulation and unfair treatment in the programmes of 34 public services of all mentioned fundamental rights of the constituent peoples and citizens in BiH. The proposal for this law does not guarantee the highest level of how international legal acts, internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms are required, with regard to equality and the use of Croatian language, and I would like to warn of another important thing. The BiH Constitution does not define any of its provisions as a majority collectiveity in BiH, with special rights in relation to other peoples in BiH, or favours the majority and does not provide any authorised treatment for any constituent people in BiH. So here's the thing, so it's one truth so here's the thing about, again I'm going back to the theme of language stories. It is about our dissatisfaction with the Hrvat, regardless of what procedure this law has so far had, who took part in the preparation of the working group, through the Council of Ministers until the coming to Parliament, therefore this dissatisfaction has been expressed, in relation to how it has been so far and how these solutions are planned to represent and represent language in the state media. We think that this equality of representation of all fundamental rights, including language, not to mention these others, should be ensured in the programmes of the state electronic media on an equal basis. Anything else, it does not comply with the BiH Constitution. So, this request that we have applied for by repairing Article 9 of this Law, in terms of installation in so far, in a single and unique BH TV service. It's not about three state televisions as someone speculates about it, it's about one BH TV service with three channels. With three national channels practiced by one Belgium, as practiced by one Switzerland, which we have in Canada, which we have in some other countries. So that's what we'll do if we have to elaborate in a special way. So, this requirement is consistent with the specificities and specificities of the overall historical and traditional relations in BiH, as it is also practiced in other democratic multiethnic, multilingual and multi-religious states, as BiH is and at the same time, this is very important, therefore, and we have heard a part of it and it is not so said in any word and technical and materially possible to do so. It is possible to do this, both theoretically and practically and legally and politically, it is only to be desired because it is a possible instrument in the way we seek to protect and ensure identical and equal use of both Bosnian and Croatian and Serbian languages on three channels of a state electronic media. At the same time, we believe that this would be a way out of our bad practice so far. You now open TV public any, from the RS via FTV so, and BH service, look and you'll see that we're right. We think that this patent would also be the exit of these poor practices of equal, and a little more equal languages, cultures, traditions of the people etc. This is the constitutional right of every constituent nation, guaranteed in an identical manner in electronic media. And such a solution to the equality of each of the official languages in the public BHRT service programmes, so there would be no news or speciality in BiH compared to other multiethnic European countries and their public media. Both in Europe and in the world at all, it is perfectly normal to have public media in the official languages of their peoples. Europe also has them in regional languages even in minority languages, please, and here it is questioned to have a public medium, a state in the language of one form constituent people who is not only looking for it for themselves, but in an equal way for all three constituent peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3224	I thank my colleague Filipović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Jukić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3225	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, Mr. Minister, the other guests, I'll try to be as brief as possible and I'll try to say what I'm about to say, and there are a lot of important things. I'd start from the present state. So, what's the state of public service now? We have three BH TVs, as you know there are already two or already a little longer two years or a little more, and they produce a daily half hour program. And it has the same right or obligation and it's a question of what is right, what is obligation, taking over part of a foreign program, too much sports, and that would be it. We have entity televisions that are in RS TV RS is mostly television that meets the needs of RS and sedifice and needs I would say both the great majority or at least the people who live in RS. And to a significant extent meets the specific needs of the Serb people in BiH. In the Federation of BiH, there is and acts Federal TV that was supposed to have two programs for a while, so it had them, now they're gone. It emits a daily relatively large number of programs. But I'll say a little bit about that program, too. In terms of the interest of the Croatian people, we feel that television is not enough and Croatian television. I have not dealt with and some people have, but I will not speak their pdas, because I have not checked them, that there is a clear non-balance and disproportion of language representation and a special programme tailored to the needs of a particular people, with a clear domination of the Bosniak people's programmes and languages. So the general assessment can be said that this television is almost exclusively or at least to the greatest extent of the Bosniak people. I already told you about BH TV. So the conclusion is very uniform. The Croatian people in BiH have no elektronic media among these public televisions. What used to be 5-6 years ago as television and quite good, by my assessment, there I allow even subjective, it was shut down 4-5 years ago, again by the decision of the international community or the OHR with one explanation that does not stand at all, and it is as forbidden to transmit from the terrestrial transmitters of the program or I do not know how it has already been defined, other televisions etc. Which is absolutely not true because after only a month, the same thing happened from an Earth transmitter, some other television or state, another program is being broadcast. So there was no question of that principle but of another. So some program isn't desirable. The establishment of CRA or RAC aims to regulate many things in a modern way, in accordance with the recommendations of international documents that we have signed. And that's good. However, with this establishment, I will tell my court again, nothing more significant has changed in the electronic media, and especially not more important than to improve at least one part the inferior and unsustainable position and position towards the interests of the Croatian people in BiH. I was convinced that this opportunity, with these two laws, would be a real opportunity to improve the situation and position of the Croatian people in BiH when it comes to media and information. However, today I was saddened to see that the proposed solutions were no better than the existing condition that I described. That I am not alone in this belief, best to bear witness to one fact, which is that in the areas in BiH that are mostly inhabited by Hrvat, the payment of the subscription of TV subscription is almost a rule. And I'd like to ask a question here to all of us, and even to the general public, did anyone deal with the question of why you don't pay or pay that subscription badly? And I'll tell you, and those spaces aren't the poorest in BiH, so these people aren't the poor richest ones from the other part, from people in the other part of BiH. I'll tell you their answer, but I'd like those who own these revenues to do those research and to deny me, and the most common answer or the exclusive answer, 36 out of 90 and more percent of the cases are, which they don't feel that medium that owns that income, they don't feel it by their own media. Gentlemen, that's the main problem. We can close our eyes in front of that fact, we can't see it, we don't want to answer it, often it's not popular to talk about it at all, so as someone I don't know, I don't know, I kind of have intentions, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Unacceptable, etc. When he talks about this, no, I have perfectly good and correct intentions and a desire to improve this condition. It's a chance now. I am still saddened by the fact that these days, here it has been for almost a month, not enough understanding from my colleagues and from our colleagues in the second House of Nehrvats that they have more understanding and sensitivity for the needs of the Croatian people in BiH to edit a fair and correct system of information. I just talked a little bit about the previous law, but still as hard as I try, I can't at least, the others can, I admire them and admire them if I can, very hard to separate in my speech and discuss this topic with each other law, because they are really connected and can't function at all without each other. They could even be in one law, only if the law was slightly different structured, it could be and it might be even logical, but it doesn't matter. So here I am, however, convinced that this opportunity and this procedure of passing these laws, we will also take advantage of all the wrongs spoken, of the illogicality and make better solutions. The proposed text of the law I just said something about it, and now I'm gonna have to repeat it. To a significant extent, it does not meet the conditions or recommendations laid down in this law. For example, Recommendation 748 says, firstly, entitled Draft minimum requirements for national broadcasting, full public service including multiple selection of programmes with the obligation to respect the interests of the region and minorities and says, inextricably broadcast on one channel. So here's the principle not satisfied and the demand in our bill. Furthermore, let us also do so through the amendments, it seems to me that we have improved, that public broadcasters are expected to have a public account, above all to the Parliamentary Assembly as a legal and legitimate representative of the people. Look, we can talk about ourselves bad, but we're a national team. Therefore, we have the right to speak for that people, we. Furthermore, when there is little talk of restrictions that BiH has and too much. One of them is the economic overall state of affairs to set and determine above all the objectives of this Parliament, because that is what it says in these international documents again, and I will quote just one, two sentences again, it will not last long – it is on parliaments to set goals, to vote on televisions, to vote on the funds they need to achieve these goals. So there is no more responsible in this country than we and our colleagues in another home, to set goals, define politics, organization and what we want. It goes on to say - it is in the state or government to secure ways, mechanisms for implementing these decisions, and on professionals i.e. services, journalists, etc. to produce programmes that meet these requirements, in accordance with normal again, of course, of course TV is independent, that principle may be well respected but not some other equally important principles. Furthermore, it is also said that the purely commercial objective, therefore, is that television has good incomes, etc. because often contrary to the tasks set, but therefore there are public services, the height of TV subscriptions and other sources or ways of determining the government and this 37 Parliament, and then we are responsible for the material opportunities and state of those services to ensure the realisation of the objectives set. And what are the most important goals set? Well, I think we're all unique here. The most important objective set is to inform the public of good, quality, impartially. First goal, the entire public. The second goal, to produce a good and quality educational program, is to educate all of us well, especially young people, ours. Further, to study says cultural diversity because it says one sentence in one other document, literally the first says in Europe cultural diversity, an integral part of Europe's cultural identity. Only BiH can say here, because we are the best example of this cultural diversity that is our wealth, if we do it the right way. If we narrow down these rights to some people or groups or nations and use some other mechanisms, not these principles, which is if someone has less hands, etc. There is no less need, but it has the same rights and the need to have all these rights and enjoy these rights. Next, another sentence. It says, European tradition highlights the value of cultural diversity by not allowing some culture to defeat another culture. Well, there's no better example in Europe than our country to apply all this, just as we're recommended. Furthermore, I didn't mention the question of language. One of the most important or important issues or the characteristic of the identity of every nation is the question of its language. And let's not try to tell anyone anything about his language, but what he says about himself. And let us, to the maximum extent, honor this requirement and the right of every nation, and even a citizen, be told to the disadvantages in these recommendations, to enjoy this right and that right. In favour of this thinking of my own, they speak solutions in developed and developed democracies, developed countries in Europe and the world, which by some of their characteristics are similar to us, multinational countries, such as Belgium, Switzerland, Canada and some other countries. And there's no problem. No problem at all. That's unquestionable. It's an achievement that we should strive for. And we need to make and build such relations in the country to be a country of contented peoples and citizens rather than dissatisfied, because one of them, if it's a pleasure to deny one's rights, creates dissatisfaction and a need to change it. It's a natural reaction. That's why I think we still have the time and the way, of course, that all of this that is missing in our laws, to fix it. I am convinced that we will work in that direction and in that direction. Just for the end, one of my thoughts or thesis, and that's what we all know about the decision or our commitment to the equality of the people. There's no better way for her to really get through the laws of norm and move than this law, or these two laws, and there's no man, citizen in this country, no matter what nation, religion, etc. the origins, that it is not interested in these two laws, does not exist and there is no man in this country or very few, who do not look at least a few hours a day at these programs that we are talking about today, such as edit both systems and services etc. Therefore, the subject is very important and important. Furthermore, the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of all three orders throughout BiH is well known. For me, there is no better example or better way to show, that we are in line to implement that Constitutional Court Decision. What's the score? It would result that any citizen, any religion, nation, religion, etc. Wherever he wakes up or finds himself in BiH, he turns on the TV and sees that he's home. Why? If he sees the program in his own language, he adapts himself to his needs, etc. That's what we should be trying to do. This is what needs to be achieved in BiH and everything else, I assure you, which you think differently, that you are not right and perhaps you can use the number of hands etc. some other relationships, etc. so maybe 38 other things to do, but it's not the future of BiH, it's not the future of relations between the peoples in BiH, it's exactly what I advocate. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3226	I thank my colleague Jukić. Who's next to the word? Mr. brkati, you have a button, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3227	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, respected Minister Dokić, cannot help but say a few words after these opening statements at the proposal for a Law on Public Radio Television Service BiH. In fact, when we talk in Parliament here, or when we talk in the lobby or when we talk in concessions, we understand each other enormously, we understand. No Niko, no one argues about how he talks, joke, laugh, seriously work, draw conclusions, attitudes, and there's no problem. Everyone speaks their own language that they want to speak. I understand Mr. Jukić perfectly as well as he understands me perfectly. I understand him much better than the speaker on the Federation of BiH television who speaks a brand-new Croatian, because Mr. Jukić does not speak a new Croatian language, he speaks a perfectly normal Croatian language that was spoken in Bosnia, always whether, quite normal language and no, I have now followed Mr. Jukić's presentation, not one word was from the new Croatian language, indeed. He was a perfectly normal Croatian language, which we all understand perfectly. Now that we're talking about freedoms, you know, it's for me the greatest freedom in the world, that an individual has a choice and can speak in BiH every language he wants to speak. And it's the greatest freedom that's possible, I don't think there's any greater freedom. It's not even in this law that someone's, uh, arguing about how they're gonna talk. Now that we're going on TV, you know, I'm telling you, today in BiH, ask Bosniaks if they're happy with Federation TV and if there's a Bosnian language spoken there. I am telling you that 99% of Bošnjak will tell you that it is not a television that corresponds to the language of Bošnjak, it is not a Bosnian language, it is a new Croatian, that the language that Jukić spoke today, no Bošnjak would have anything to do with that language. It's a perfectly normal language that we understand, which we all speak here. So that's one normal relationship. Now what am I gonna say? Please, I have the impression that sometimes where we don't have problems, where we don't have them, that we make them artificially. Simply, language must be a problem in Bosnia. Why? Because he's got a problem. Watch something, I'm from the middle of New York, I was born there, I grew up there, I lived. I've been in Sarajevo for the last 15 years and in Tešnja in the middle where there was harmony between 92-95, and eventually the Usor Municipality had to be built, it had to be done. Someone said they will, they must, and they're done. And now, a man who, say, is now a big Democrats, his teeth are made. That's right. He was then president of HDZ and was given a warrant to build Usor Opština and he made it. Now he's not in HDZ, he's a Democrats, that's it. That's how it worked. Now I see it in my own language, you know. When we ask Savičević or Boban or Muhamed Konjić, what language do they speak abroad? None of them answered, neither one of them Serbian, none of them Croatian, none of them Bosnian speak English, and that doesn't bother us here, let them speak there whether they work there and speak that language. And now that they come here and talk, they'd say what this is, what this is like. It can't be like that. I really think, I really think that the greatest freedom of choice for everyone to speak as they wish, and in public communications, is also the choice of the one who works there. I say, on FTV when I hear the news, I'm half the word from that woman I don't understand, but I listen to it, what I'm going to do, listen to it. That 39 pays, I pay for that TV and I listen. Western Herzegovina doesn't pay and she listens to it, but we need to find some kind of compromise. We can't find it all the time, so wait, we can't keep finding the sharing. Let's do something that won't share this Bosnia, because I feel like it's a split mind. There's nothing we need to share a view. We rape language, let's not rape language and don't send a message to the people about it now, we can't agree on the language here in Bosnia and I and Jukić speak 99% of the same language. Not all Hrvat speak like Jukić. But he speaks original, Bosnian Croatian, and it's perfectly normal, here in Bosnia. Well, listen, there's not a word in Goran that I don't understand when he reads Goran, you know at the beginning of this session, there's a few words that are written there, so he says them. And he wouldn't say them like that if he didn't read them. Goran, you'll see for yourself later. Don't answer now. You'll see for yourself later. What I'm saying. Let's find what will be a message to the citizens of BiH, the peoples of BiH, and I am for it, for equality and for citizens and peoples... here are citizens and peoples, but I'm not for it to be bought into a trench and that's the only way to shoot it, I just didn't. I'm for us to accept this, let's build it up, but not in this way that Mr. Jukić says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3228	Thank Mr. Brki for his inspired speech. Theymorati have to replicate, of course, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3229	Otherwise, my way of working isn't replicating. I don't do it, but I'm still gonna have to do it for Mr. Brk. In fact, it's not good for us to judge here without arguments and without study, about what language, how old it is, how old it is, how built, how not built, how much it is, etc. We shouldn't, it's a trap again, and it's a very dangerous trap, to deny someone's right to what he says it is with everything that's new. I don't think that's a good thing, and that's what I'd fence myself with, and I wouldn't say anything. But one other thing, here, when I said it, I think it's perfectly legitimate to look for ways, that what we all say, and what it says in our constitution and some other documents, to find a way to define it through the relevant laws, as a norm, by which, later on, some other things will, therefore, happen, and specifically, here is now the editing of this system and the public information service.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3230	I thank my colleague Jukić. Comrade Zrna, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3231	I welcome you all, I didn't mean to get involved, I don't get involved at all in the debate and I don't think there's any need to discuss this problem any further, respecting what fellow representatives from Mr. Genjac, Čengić, and Mr. Jukić and everyone else, I don't want to leave anyone out of what was said in their discussions. In truth, it's a very important law, it's very, I'd say, given the circumstances, which have been going on for years and on one problem and on a troubled law and on a debateable, debateable situation. I answered, perhaps it was wise to seek only a replica of Mr. Osman, to point out I'm a language teacher, and that Croatian language, that we don't mix anything, that new and old language, 40 doesn't exist. Each language has its own archaisms, has its own history and Bosniak, both Serbian and Croatian and English, is absolutely all one thing, so language is integral tissue, which has its own life. In his life, he is enriched by one segments of extinction, in another he enriches, expands, or decreases, even depends on the population he speaks to. Pam tom, I believe deep down this is about the lapus. About the lapus and, moreover, I'm glad and be sure I'm happy that we all understand each other. That's the happiness of all of us. I think we share it the same way. It's lucky they're eating us, we're not sitting in a translator. You've seen how difficult it is to communicate with someone else when we're trying to articulate what we want to articulate. We here understand the languages we speak. We don't just speak words. We understand and feel, and understand emotions, we understand, in fact, what is behind sentences, which is not said in a sentence. And it is, in fact, our gain and it is the happiness of these peoples, who live here and these countries where these people live. I am convinced that this is what must connect us, absolutely connect us, which must connect us and unite us, with respect for the fact that there are three languages, as there are three peoples. I think it's unquestionable. Basically, this is about, when we talk about language, it's not about the problem of our mutual understanding, it's about the problem of institutionalizing what's called language and the use of that language, and that's what this is about, so that we don't replace the thesis, there's no need, then these discussions would lead us to stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3232	Thank you, colleagues, for the Zrn. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. Excuse me, Mr. Limov. Please report on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3233	So, of course I lead to blush, I feel the need to say my vision of this situation. In fact, I certainly appreciate the efforts of all those people involved in the formulation of the bill's proposal and, of course, we can approach this problem in different ways, but the fact is that there are also a large number of amendments, which have arrived enough to talk about not only the interest, but, if you want to talk about starting quality, the fact is that there are no ideal laws. I personally think, regardless of all the objections that can be made, in relation to the text of the law, which today is on the agenda, we still have to accept the fact that this is a step forward in relation to the situation we have. On the other hand, I am personally inclined to support such a law and, if, having in mind certain thinking and the views expressed here by my colleagues from HDZ, I would just like to say that their demands are legitimate and that, if a whole series of arguments, which they have said and which they have not brought here, are in their favour and in particular in terms of European practice. And, often when we get one law, which we like to say, that the reform character, then, of course, in my opinion, is quite unnecessary, we lose energy in inventing hot water, or we are not inclined to accept solutions that work in other countries, but rather simply and I think it is, we try, therefore, to do something specific to our own, etc. We build and I think it often causes misunderstandings. I understand that this law has passed the proper compliance procedure. The key factors in this were, above all, the international community and, of course, representatives of the ruling parliamentary majority. What is interesting is that this law was passed by the Council of Ministers and practically only in the parliamentary procedure, so the representatives of the HDZ came out with certain elements, which raise 41 to question the very concept of the existing law. And I must admit that, fortunately, my voice does not decide. However, I too have my own vision of what things should look like. I respect everyone's opinion, and here today we have heard the representatives of the two constituent peoples, where colleagues, most likely with a lot of arguments, expressed the opinion of their people, which is that they are dissatisfied with the current state of the state, concisely federal television. So, Mr. Brka said this in relation to the opinion of the Bosniak people, Mr. Jukić and Mr. Filipović about the dissatisfaction of the same television by the Croatian people. Of course, it would be ideal if, as in other countries, we could simply apply, if you want democratic achievements, so as to implement those provisions on equality, which include, among other things, this segment and enable us to enable citizens, members of all peoples, to choose a programme and a channel that suits them and that reflects their interests and needs. We need to be realistic and that's the least reform problem in this segment. We're coming from something we've been assigned. We, therefore, have two entity services and we have initial steps in building an expensive service, and now it's political wisdom in fact, to exploit those potentials we already have, and they're not a burden to us and, I'm afraid, I've just felt in the same way as Mr. Genjac, who was talking about one of these services, in that very sense, and what he's saying in a certain way about unequal, I'd say, starting positions. However, I personally think that we should have and should respect what we now have, build an expensive radio-television service and two entity services, with all three channels being guaranteed equal representation, of course all three languages and all three channels with their programme facilities, having to satisfy the needs and interests of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, national minorities and other citizens living in BiH, as well as BiH citizens, wherever they live outside BiH. What concept do you choose? Does, therefore, what we have in law, do we discuss the requirements that come from HDZ, which refer to the existence of so-called. The national channels, and hence, include the programmes, which is a matter which, above all, needs to be agreed by those who are key in the process of making appropriate decisions. I personally think that this agreement will not be and I think that, practically this law, I, in fact, want us to get the law, but it will show in practice that it will definitely need to be upgraded, changed and through its implementation will satisfy what we in this debate, in a certain way, and indicate. If we opt for the proposed concept of this law today, then a whole series of amendments, which I suppose will be reactivated, in relation to, here, we will agree, hopefully, to make it possible, in a way that what Mr Čengić was talking about, by additional engagement, we will try to get this text fixed, to the extent that it is acceptable for everyone, but in any case, if we stay on this one, it is clear that, or it is necessary to withdraw certain amendments, which touch this concept, or by revote, and I fear that this revote will be on the trail of some earlier revotes, I personally would not want to participate in this, and it is least important that I will be among those who are minority or most, because surely voting two to one for BiH is something that has led to a catastrophic state. We have nothing if we pass the law and if the atmosphere in which it is brought, the procedure through which it is passed and how we bring it, if the representatives of one nation, no matter what people it is, if they are bound by that law in a certain way, then surely the outcome of its implementation is something that will be bad for all of us. 42 So instead of taking advantage of this activity, in a certain way that through honest conversations, we see all the possibilities that exist, it seems to me that in some way we're getting into a divorce when, well, there's something that someone else needs to bring. I think it would be good for the respected Minister Dokić to be visible around these demands, especially in terms of telling us what it is that makes it impossible to accept this HDZ proposal, especially in that technical sense, which means how much it costs, etc. Well, on the basis of that, of course we're introducing a further discussion, because it seems to me that, okay, but if we agree today that certain elements can't be touched, then it's clear that they're either going to retreat or it's going to be, this is what I'm talking about, which is not good. If there's a national vote, I think it hurts everyone, and it doesn't do anybody any good, except we'll be able to formally say that we've fulfilled one obligation of which, at the end of the line, there won't be a proper cross. Of course, you can talk with different aspects. I informed my parent that my relationship is against this law, because it is better than what we now have positive and in that respect, I will also define myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3234	I thank my colleague Limov. I've still got Mr. Hilm Neimarli on file. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3235	The Honorable Chairmanship, the Presidency, fellow delegates, although we are talking about principles, it is obvious that it is extremely important legal projects, which are regulated or regulated by extremely important problems, even if we have moved away from work somewhere, we were obviously unable to avoid a longer debate and therefore I, too, decided to include myself with a few notes regarding the principle of regulation of this important issue, and given the discussions we had and immediately to say that I support both unconditionally and ultimately, as one of the first principles and one of the first principles of this law and the legal regulation of this issue, something that my colleague Jukić said when he predicted the success of this law, or these laws, by arguing that the laws would succeed, in fact, will be regulated legally by this issue, if every citizen BiH, the Bošnjak, the Srbin and the rest of us, were to be equal to the people who feel that it is true to the people of BiH, and to be true to all the people of BiH, if they feel that they feel that they are equal to the people of BiH, and to the people, and to the people of BiH. I support it most of all, and I believe that it is a principle that ensures productivity and future life of this law. Of course, this also involves or implies a problem and the possibility of a completely different opinion, in terms of whether or not this fertility assumes the right to constitutionality of everyone, because, in my view, they are just denying this deviability and that constitutionality in the sense that I will feel media equal if these services are offered, each of them if they offer me media information and media content that is acceptable to me as a Bošnjak and should be acceptable to a Srbin as a Srbin and Hrvat as a Hrvat and a member of the national minorities. And, with the scope goes something again that, also, fellow Jukić put out, which, in fact, I can't agree with, which, apparently, I suppose, prompted a fellow Brk to this intervention, which we once again had a response from fellow Zrne, who accepts, and 43 is that ours, in one of these important rights, related to this media editing, legal arrangement of this BiH media space, appears about comparing our media, in the field of language, in fact, to the comparison of this multilingual space, with more language spaces, let's say Canada or Belgium. Technically, and from the point of view of the legal arrangement of this sensitive and extremely important problem, here we also have two linguists, linguists from the Croatian people, which I hold and very important, cannot be equated technically from the point of view of legal regulation of this issue, differences between Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages and differences between, let's say... or French and English. Therefore, it is not appropriate, it is not politically appropriate to deal with this problem and our relationship with it. The comparison, therefore, technical between Belgium and BiH, because it drives us into vaccination, which does not make solutions. And why am I saying this? Because I accept my colleague Jukić's position as his opinion as the opinion of many people. He also mentioned certain research, I would like to see them about the blinding of national ones, here I am saying, dimensions, components, programs on federal television, which both Croatian and Hrvat rights on television are clearly reduced compared to the presence of both Bosnian and Bosnian programs that correspond as Bošnjak. I can only repeat, indeed, the opinion expressed by my colleague Brka and just specify him. If a poll were to be conducted among Bošnjak, Bosniak TV viewers, when it comes to information emissions, information from this official show, believe that a large majority would argue that there is hardly any Bosnian language in these shows and that in these shows, I am talking about them, mainly, that the Croatian language is ruling. So, I allow that what my colleague Jukić said, that it stands out that there is a great belief, a great number of Croatian viewers of federal television that it is not a program for them, that, as a result, they will not pay the subscription and you respect the fact that a huge number of Bošnjak sees it as a mountain that is not theirs, but we obviously need to respect the fact that the difference between Bosnian, this is just as a point, which we should have in mind, that the difference between Bosnian and Croatian is not the difference between French and English and we cannot have a cantar, but obviously we need to have a good will to respect and that the dimension of the problem and that we would not be able to transfer it to other areas and, in addition to that we would only be able to express it a little bit, or to say, conditionally, this sensitive problem, I would remind you, that they were, that we would not, that we would be, in fact, in fact, in fact, some language, and in fact, that we had no Hrvat, that we had to speak to speak to speak, any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any language, or of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any language, that we, or of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of us, to speak, to speak, to speak, to speak, to speak, to speak. But I remind you in the Bosnian Parliament during Austria, it used to happen very often, and it was one of the most effective means and mobilising the Parliament, it discussed the budget, and then the theme of language and letters was inserted, and instead of budgets, that is, solving the problem of BiH's economy, budgets and everything he implicated, there were exhausting debates on the language. However, in order to avoid it, I expect here respect and all of our specificities, but also respecting what we cannot, their differences do technically, to say, what are the differences I mentioned in the field of language between French and English. 44 In that sense, in addition, on the other hand, unlike when it was Austro-austrougarski, we pass these laws in circumstances, fellow delegates all know these media globalisations on the media field. I am sure that this commission, by making this law, had in mind and these limitations, along with what the minister mentioned, the Constitution, the laws, the frameworks of the forced framework and this media and global media engineering, which we must bear in mind, in the sense that we are not solving this in the situation of our colleagues 80 or 90 years ago, who have dealt with the language instead of the budget, and that by dealing with the media, we are actually losing all possible media credibility in relation to the global media engineering and in relation to these media alternatives, which are around us gentlemen and who are living Jukić who are also, beyond the possibilities of our actions, the strength and credibility of these institutions that we are discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3236	Thank you, fellow Neimarlija. Who else wants to talk? Here, I only have one observation after these discussions in one sentence. It seems to me, given the dissatisfaction of both Bošnjak and Hrvat with federal television, that in fact, there is a prodigal policy in Croatian. That way, somehow, it could be the conclusion. Since we've exhausted the debate, here, we'll give the word to the minister, Mr. Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3237	Well, here, keep quiet. I don't think there's any need to talk about these general principles and principles. I think the president of the commission, Mr. Čengić, explained it briefly and nicely. But I must say that neither you nor you spoke of the principles nor the principles of this law, but the whole debate stemmed from a debate on the language, and the language is just one small part, which is regulated by this law. However, I must be honest to the end. That I'm pleased to hear your discussions, they're quite parliamentary, unlike some of the other days, which is why I was wondering, really, if my place is where I'm sitting, but that's what you said, we don't have the right to be angry, we really don't have the right to be angry. I don't know if you felt any element of anger today. I always start from the fact that the size of a man is expressed in how equally dignified he is ready to accept both praise and criticism and good and bad, success and failure. Of course, everyone here has a small, smaller or larger shade, as they receive it, and in that we differ. But I also have to say that those of us who worked on this, and by the circumstances, maybe you know because of the pressures that were on the other side, because of the whole process, which existed here, I won't bother you with it, I really had to study everything, I really had to study everything well, so here's this international pre-requisite and this stuff, and a very good student, when he's preparing the exam, then when he first reads the book, he finds cardinal errors and wonders what this author was doing. At second reading, he sees that these aren't exactly cardinal mistakes, and the third reading finds that there are no mistakes. That's the difference between us and you, please. I know that many ministers, delegates, MPs, have only read and not read once. You saw that these amendments, which we were completely 45 open to, so only a few amendments didn't go through yesterday, were accepted. They are in terms of improving the text and good, therefore, they have not touched in any way into the concept, as you have called this law. If it wasn't for vanity, but if we had to act professionally, it's the fact that yesterday Mr. Brka had two amendments, which we didn't accept. I, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, did not accept. These are the two amendments that I, with the European Commission and OHR, have been dealing with for a month and a half, under quotes, because they were my proposals. The Council of Ministers eventually accepted differently because of this and that and I had the right yesterday to say I accept this. It is my suggestion that you accept the law today in this first reading. It opens up the possibility of doing what needs to be done through the amendments. Let me, here again through one comparison, through one message, one story, whose message comes down to the next. If so, the oak is more obvious than the giraffe. The human body is more obvious than the hand on the body, but if you look too much at the grain on the oak, it will eventually become more obvious to you than the oak or if you look too much at the hand of a man, it will become more obvious to you than the whole body. What was I gonna say about this? Don't because of one member, here they are, right now speaking to representatives of the Croatian people, you have, especially in this home to seek the protection of national interest, which is why this home exists, but don't do it for one member and literally because of one member, who, here is the hand on the body, to bring the whole concept. Why do I say that and why do I ask for understanding? Yesterday we won, the other day and yesterday, of the two amendments that HDZ has submitted and with which you believe that, here in this law is the national interest of Hrvat, one is fully accepted. It's in Article 9. The system law, which we have already adopted in this first reading, where it was kicked out of that Council of Ministers proposal, that only one TV station would be awarded a frequency. So it's erased and left an opportunity for more and it's an intervention. The second intervention on the service law, the one we're talking about now, your amendment reads, I'll read it. This is a little bit about the details, but I just wanted to explain that we're not just looking at each other, we're looking at the whole body. The BHRT programme will be tailored to the needs of individual constituent peoples in BiH and will be edited and broadcast in three official languages in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian, this has been installed, and at this time this is not accepted further, which follows separately into three different channels. So 80% of this amendment is in place. And through the existing text, there is an opportunity to open up the possibility of using the second part as well. When we said, in the system law, that the one station was erased, there was an open possibility that we could do more. In Article 9. The service law says, not in Article nine, I'll find, yes, in Article 9. The service law, the software service, it says. Listen carefully. The BHRT activity is achieved by producing and broadcasting the programme on at least one radio or one television network. Doesn't this open a possibility? At this point, I need to be open to the end. Here, if I were, there's an open possibility, so you're going to do it through the amendments, here, now I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's been done to make sure it's said one way or another, and our reality among other things is like this. I have now returned from the Council of Ministers' session at the beginning of this session and I do not know if the Council of Ministers has accepted the proposal that I was, of course, standing behind, and I strongly advocated for him to single out the Council of Ministers at the moment 100,000 euros, so that 13 August BHTV1 could go on satellite. And, looking for ways, the question arises whether they will be able and I don't know if they have found a solution for 100,000 euros at this point. There is room for satisfaction of national interests and it must be found indeed, but keep in mind, don't think that Srbin are satisfied with BHTV1, but I won't be talking now, but keep in mind what someone said they've been broadcasting the program so far, practically that came down to the diary. Now since August, since September BHTV1 or BHRT will be called further, 46 will broadcast a full-day programme throughout the BiH area, this is an opportunity where everyone in the programme will have to be found during the time period. And, let me finish, I can see you're tired, too. So my suggestion is that, in principle and in principle, the law that was not at all challenged, I listened carefully, that it be accepted, and through the amendments to find a way to install elements, which will indeed guarantee on state television full equality and people and languages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3238	I thank the minister. Mr. Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3239	Thank you very much for your word. Oh, just for a little while. So, no replica, however, I would say that Mr. Dokić is right when he realizes that we have spent a lot of time here on the language. Please, we're not talking about the law here, which regulates the work of future television of one and the other entities and the silent television of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So language is something to express everything that goes through the program, so I'm not repeating this all that goes on. So we're not talking about my TV. We're talking about television about the speech program and this when we say three channels and this example of your three giraffes, this giro you were talking about, in a picturesque way, was understood by those who aren't Christians or Christians, so it's very picturesque and very nicely said, but that jury is exactly what we advocate, it's the language of each of the constitutive people, that's that jury. We simply want this jury to always look just as big to us, but for everyone watching TV, both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak in BiH. That's the kind of channel we're looking for. It is something that you and right are, therefore, going through the text in a certain way, because you are on a spoon, somewhere you have directly installed certain standards of international law from the directive and certain recommendations, it is clearly seen that we are not repeating them, and somewhere it is open space without a clear expression that BH service has programs, therefore, in national languages, which is no newspaper, nothing special, it is something that awaits the future of this BiH, and we do so today so that we don't have to do it tomorrow and that this doesn't happen to scream someone like a bit of Bosnian language on federal television, and at the same time Hrvat don't pay, they think it's probian television. Come on, let's do what all three of the forming nations who make this state will be pleased. Well, for God's sake, if Parliament adopts a law that will dissatisfy a constituent people, in terms of public media, and through, the one who has been expelled from public media in his speech in his culture and in his tradition, he is condemned to quietly and lightly dying and forget his tradition and his language. Gentlemen, that's true, it's inconclusive, it's inextricable, and that's why we're looking for equality in time and in the way we consume that right, when it comes to language and anything that can be spoken in public Bosnian-Herzegovina electronic media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3240	Thank you. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3241	I really wouldn't be joining the debate, and what I'm saying is the easiest thing to do is to attract what we call a replica, and if I didn't press this replica button, I'd just call for a speech. I would not get involved in a debate about whether federal television is mostly Bosniak television, as my colleague Jukić said. If we look at it by Mr. jasmin Duraković's director, then it could be concluded that way. If, however, we were to conclude 47 that it is Bosniak, I fear that Mr. Duraković would not be thrilled by it, to say that he is Bošnjak, and especially that the programme that produces his television is Bosniak. For that reason, I suggest two things. First of all, let's agree to give a positive assessment of the first reading of this law. And to do another reading, to make additional efforts, to sort out the differences that clearly exist, before we finally make a statement about the amendments. For this there are more verifiers, I would not suggest this time of variations, I would just express my willingness and I think I share the mood not only of the Bosniak People's Club, but of the overall mood that we have heard today, really should sit and agree on what is evident, and not the only reason, therefore, is still something that we disagree on, and it is not only a matter of satisfying the national interests, or rather, respecting national needs, but a way of solving, therefore, and for a few other things that are equally important for the quality functioning of the system and service. For this reason, I think it is really necessary that we make an extra effort, one perfectly normal, open satmosphere, to find solutions that will not seek anything outside of this home and that will not spend more time than September 30th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3242	I thank my colleague, Čengić. We don't have any more applications. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3243	...on the tradition of Mr. Čengić's debate, including Mr. Filipvić and Mr. Genjac, the minister and I don't know that I would leave anyone out, all of whom seem to be discussing this issue. Through all of our debates, one thesis has gone through, and that, as I understand it, is the need to try in this time that is ahead of us and even during the holidays, to use it for an additional possible alignment, because the subject is obviously too important, we all said. We all said that there are needs, and certainly there are political wills, at least so I see that we try in this time that is ahead of us, to try to find solutions, which will be acceptable to everyone and who will make such solutions, to complete and supplement these laws, so that they are acceptable and, here, I would suggest in that direction one conclusion, that until, I don't know by what time, but, let's say, up to maybe a few days before our session, where there will be another reading, that we leave the possibility of amendment action, and, if necessary, we call upon the competent committee to meet and to give its opinion and, possibly, if any events or solutions happen on this background, therefore, to agree, now not agreed requests or solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3244	I don't mind. I personally say, therefore, if this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, that we adopt this conclusion, but certainly according to the Rules of Procedure, the conclusion is adopted after the statement, so that if you agree, I would invite you to vote in the first reading. So, the law on the BiH Public Television Service. I'm opening a vote. So 12 votes, we have 10 for, 2 against. I'm finding out a law was passed in the first reading. 48 Now we have, since this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so Dom can conclude that the amendment phase is extended, I will now open the vote. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3245	So, by respecting this proposal by Mr. Jukić, which I will vote for, I would suggest, however, that we try to just agree to set a time until we can invest in the amendment. My suggestion is that it be at least seven days before the debate, and that it be again by 7 September at the latest. So, let's let the time within September 7th to still be able to talk. I guess we're going to have to talk about it a little bit, or maybe we don't say it by the date, but seven days before we do it, and then we have a little bit of space, because if we adopt today, or we've already adopted the first reading, so we're left with a second reading. Now it doesn't matter if we work a day or three days on the committee, whether we sit one day or ten days in preparation, it's important to prepare a solution that we finally accept on the House. If we get a harmonised view of Home 20, for example. September, we still don't mind it, so we don't get bigger because, for the date, but let's say it seven days before the session, so by deciding on the House session, we'll decide how much time we've had before, and that these seven days, I say, however, that it cools down, that it doesn't be until the last minute, that we're still changing and giving up. That would be my suggestion to say that amendments can be invested in the commission phase up to seven days before the debate at the House in the second reading. To supplement this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3246	A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3247	If we set a deadline based on something that's about to happen, we're in a position to make misunderstandings. So, seven days before something happens, and we don't know when it's gonna happen. From this perspective, delegates do not know when it is and can be called upon to do business, I think we need to set a deadline and I think it is a satisfactory intention of the promoter to open a space for new conclusions, for new ideas, for new alignments and respecting that, achieving that goal and meeting the need to, however, not be late with this law, where it is not necessary, I think that September 7th of the amendment is quite correct and should be a clear date and that delegates know today what date it is, or, here is September 10th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3248	Here, so the text of the conclusion as Mr. Jukić said, is that it's September 10th. I'm opening a vote on Mr. Jukić's proposal for a conclusion. Unanimity, 14 for. Thank you. Moving to the next item on agenda 23. 49 Ad.23. Proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH, we have it in our first reading under Article 90. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in both readings from two amendments to the 42nd session, held on July 27th 2004. I'm opening a debate. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3249	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, ahead of us is the proposal for a framework law on the registration of business entities in BiH, whose draft, i.e. the proposal was proposed by the Council of Ministers and delivered to us in the procedure. I have submitted two amendments to the Commission's work, which, unfortunately, have not been adopted, and if, in principle, they change principles and principles now, in principle, so the Presidency compared to the original variant, which was in line with OHR and entity governments, has introduced amendments to two members that essentially changed the essence of the law. I think that with this law we have received a uniform, cheap and efficient approach to registration of business entities and, therefore, both domestic and foreign ones and thus made it possible to create a single market and economic space for BiH. What was one of the preconditions is improving the country's economy. If I can make two amendments immediately, my amendments refer to Article 8(3) to delete, because it is contrary to the principle of framework law and, therefore, we are confused here. We wanted the Ministry of Justice here as a central registrar, therefore, a administrative institution, which will interfere in judicial and legal proceedings, which is not good, because the law harmonised and harmonised all relations in the entire BiH territory. So it's the law, not the administrative organization. What this solution leads to is that the law states that there are registration courts, that a legal entity, to report to any of...automatism, will be registered, received documentation and written, will be forwarded to the competent court, which has been said to be in charge of the registration of that entity. Also, feedback, as well as the book, the central book of the register, is enough to address one of the registration courts in the entire BiH territory to obtain legal and valid data. So, court proceedings. The solution provided for, the Council of Ministers is to give the Ministry of Justice permission to lead in electronic form a book, a naked book of registers, which cannot be used in the form in which it can, because this is done in a court procedure. For this reason, I have also made an amendment to delete this member, Article 8, Article 22, paragraphs 4 and 5, as there is also a conflict between the Law on Ministrys and other BiH institutions and the law itself. The same text was adopted by the House of Representatives, and we have the opportunity to see the letter and Mr Hejs, the World Bank, who is the donor of the implementation of the registration of business entities in BiH, and I think, for these reasons, I suggest that colleagues accept these amendments, in order to get the same texts in the House of Representatives, today's adoption would meet the conditions set by the World Bank and we have the DIFID foundations, and it is valid until the end of July 2004, which makes it impossible for us to use the requirements of the BAC programme to meet the conditions set out in BiH. So once again I would ask to adopt the amendment to the law, the Framework Law on 50 registration of business entities, so we will get the same text and meet the conditions set before BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3250	I thank Mr. nada Radović, here, this time, we have no quorum, so we will wait a few moments, because the representatives of Mr. Milojević and Šiljegović, here Mr. Šiljegović has arrived. So you heard the explanation of Mr. Radović's amendment. We need to make a statement about the amendments. I'm sorry, I was wrong. We need to make a statement about the law in the first reading. Here, I call on the MPs to plead with the vote in the first reading. Here, Mr. President will be right with you. He handles this technique better.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3251	I'm opening a vote in my first reading on this law. Here you go. 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I find the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You have a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The amendment was submitted by Mr. Nada Radović and gave an explanation. We have a representative of the promoter. I call on the representative of the motion to plead. Otherwise, the House of Representatives passed a law with these same amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3252	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I welcome you, I was at the House of Representatives yesterday. They have an opinion from OHR, the UK Embassy, the World Bank, and this... supports a unique opinion in the assessment of the amendments, submitted by Mr Momčilo Novaković, a representative at the House of Representatives and amendments are identical. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They've adopted these amendments. This is how we come to the text, the version of the law, which is directed towards the Council of Ministers. So, the BiH Ministry of Justice has, let's say, been a working version of the law. The Council of Ministers adopted amendments and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and precisely these amendments, which were adopted by the Council of Ministers by Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Radović, amendments that are in the same text. To overcome this rule in which we have found ourselves, there is no obstacle to you supporting Mr. Radović's amendments to the same text of the law, so we would have the law, because this law, which is an indicative character, will be implemented in entities and Brcko District. Essentially something important is not changed in relation to the proposed text of the law, meaning the adopted bill, which was established by the Council of Ministers, as Article 8(3) says the BiH Justice Ministry, that it will only keep the main register in electronic form. So he's just guarding it. He doesn't register, and registration will be done in courts. There are 16 courts throughout BiH, so 10 in the Federation and 5 in RS and 1 in Brcko District, which will be connected electronically and anyone who has the ability to access the Internet will also have the opportunity to enter the registration itself and verify certain data of those who need it. In addition, any court which makes 51 registrations shall mean of those 16 courts, irrespective of whether or not it has executed the registrant, shall be obliged to give certain data from the register except those which are protected by law, shall mean personal data which are not of a public nature, unless it concerns law enforcement authorities, etc. As regards these observations to Articles 22(4) and (5), in essence, in one part of Article 22(4), there is, as a result, a law which gives, the Law on the Ministry of Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration, which gives the right and the possibility to the Ministry of Justice to do certain tasks relating to harmonisation of the harmonisation of legislation, standards of the legal system, etc. So that's what law enforcement has to do. However, entity courts, meaning, which register and court in the Brcko District BiH, are obliged to ensure the technical correctness of these electronic appliances, through which registration is carried out. So, these software, the Harvets, I'm not exactly an expert in this, so it's the duty of those courts, i.e. the government of entities and the Brcko District, to ensure technical correctness. In addition, Articles 4 and 5 of and Articles 5, respectively, Articles 4 and 5 of Article 22, are further added to the jurisdiction and the Ministry of Justice. So the two are competent, eh, now the question is, how is that technical correctness going to be done, if there are two of them already, and it's not saying one thing? Therefore, there is no obstacle to adopting Mr. Radović's amendments, as this would lead to the law, and thus to the implementation of this indictment law, because the laws in the entities and Brcko District, which must be passed, under this law, cannot be accessed until this law enters into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3253	Thank you very much for your proposal. Is anyone else answering for the discussion? Niko. I suggest we make a statement on the amendments. So Amendment I in Article 8(3) is deleted. We're voting on that amendment. You can vote now. One against, 11 for, I'm finding that the amendment has been made. Amendment II, let me remind you in Article 22, paragraphs 4 and 5, are deleted. I'm opening a vote. We have one against again, 11 for. I find that Amendment II has been adopted. Now we're going to vote on the law. Which is for the adoption of the law. Open vote. 11 for, 1 against. Sorry, 12 for it. We all voted yes. The law has been adopted unanimously in the same text as the House of Representatives. We're moving to agenda 24. Ad.24. A report from the Office for Audit, on the review of the BiH Presidency for 2003, received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives adopted a report at its 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. I am opening a debate on this item on the 52nd agenda, i.e. I am giving my word to the President of the Administrative Commission, Mr Radović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3254	Well, I hope we don't put the theme of language into place now, to distract attention from the revision, as Mr. Hilmo said. The Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House, held at its 18th session, held on 27.7., examined in accordance with Article 79(2).
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3255	I apologize to my colleague, Radović. We're working on a minimum. So don't let anyone out again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3256	... The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly report on the work of the Audit Office for 2003 for the following budgetary users: 1. BiH Presidency, 2. Institute of Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property, 3. Office of the BiH institutions of joint operations, 4. BiH State Border Service, 5. BiH Statistics Agency, 6. BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, 7. “ Impartmental Commission of BiH, 8 / 8 Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 9. BiH's first defence, 10th. Court of BiH, 11. Prosecutor's Office of BiH, 12. Constitutional Court of BiH, 13. BiH Veterinary Office, 14. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 2 / 15 BiH Foreign Ministry, 16. BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, 17. Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments of BiH, 18. The BiH State Service Agency. The Commission has carefully heard... the report of the Audit Office and since it has been subject to a great public interest in the use of budget funds by budget users,... special attention to this home, that it, based on the report, adopts and draws appropriate conclusions based on the Commission's report. In that letter, I will simply read the conclusions of the Commission which the House proposes. 1. It requires the House to ask the BiH Financial Institution's Office for Financial Audit, to make a comprehensive report for all institutions, budget users, and on this basis to create a summary, where it will be seen that who and how he spent 53 budget funds and how he is dealing with the budget funds of all budgetary users, so that the Parliamentary Assembly and the relevant other authorities have their position to give tasks and recommendations. 2. That the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Council of Ministers to draw up the necessary legal and sublegal acts, which are necessary to regulate and limit spending, according to the report. It is also required that the Council of Ministers draw up system principles and standards for the use of budget funds. It has been observed that which individual budget users have different standards or I would say the arches in terms of various costs, and they are mainly standardised and given to be regulated in principle and essentially regulated. It is also required that budgetary users establish a control and restriction of the use of budgetary resources and regulate it by their rules of procedure, regulation and other act, or by a decision where it will be clear how and how budget spending is controlled and limited. 3. The conclusion, which the Commission proposes to the House, in accordance with the legal decision, shall, where necessary, be taken by the relevant authorities by means of appropriate measures for those who have violated or in an illegal manner, or violate the powers or spend budgets beyond agreed. So much for the Commission to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3257	I would like to thank the President of the Commission for a very comprehensive discussion. So, I'm opening a debate. Let's open it up on this agenda. A colleague called Tomislav Limov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3258	If I hadn't spoken before, I would have certainly taken advantage of the occasion, because in front of us one topic, which, I remember last year when we discussed, I remember the conclusions, it might be good to repeat them, because here, the revision found that one of the things that has been planned, especially for individual entities, for individual BiH institutions, was that they did not respect the recommendations, which the review gave, and for the 2002 findings. In any case, I have no dilemma about accepting the Office's review report and there is no problem with them at all, the problem is that many entities, many BiH institutions, are not in relation to their business... ...so, in any case, I would like to say that I do not have a dilemma about accepting this report, but I will take advantage of the opportunity and give my support and it seems to me that it would be an essential order for my envoys to clearly and unequivocally tell our auditors that in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, they have full support in their specific struggle for the legality of the work of all BiH institutions. I, of course, will not, having in my ear and we are tired and this is a scheme of circumstances that this is in the process of sitting, although it would be better if we had opened this topic at the very beginning of our work, then I would have talked more widely about some of the things that have been related to what has been expressed in 54 media in terms of threats or I don't know the warnings, which have been received by the auditors themselves, as far as I understand from the media, the individual advisers of the Presidency, above all, so I personally think that this, indeed, speaks enough about them, and as far as the auditors are concerned, I don't think that they can continue their work peacefully, because in this parliamentary assembly of BiH, they will certainly have support and, if they need to be realistic and we have seen it from their audits, that it wasn't all great, it was not all the way it should be, so in this sense, so in particular I would use the opportunity and distracting people, the responsible people in the parliamentary assembly, that they have been able to conduct all of all the parliaments, and to conducts the necessary to conduct in the reforms. I have to, of course, point out, I don't know if there's anyone in the Presidency here, I'd like to have, but regardless of it, however, I'll say that, when the entire report is looked at, it's very hard to find a chapter, some area, and I believe that it's possible to find it, although it's very difficult for me to go after the hand, probably because I've been working in some previous time the inspector's job in a certain way built this professional relationship against what's called documentation and, of course, I'll still be taxing, I'm going to have to say it taxively, and it's actually when I know that I'm not able to fully explain what I'm talking about, so I'll be taxing it, and the auditors going to realize that it's an integral part of the contents of their findings, I'll list these illegalities, which are related to the business of the Presidency. First, the Presidency does not have a reliable internal control system, which aims to ensure the efficiency of financial operations, respect for regulations and accuracy of financial reports. Secondly, the Bureau's business is uneconomic. Thirdly, the Bureau violated the rules on public procurement, then failed to implement the recommendations of the review of previous 2002, and then the Bureau did not have internal rules that would regulate the line of co-ordination, i.e. the authority between the members of the Bureau of the Secretary-General, the Chiefs of Staff and the Office of the Alliance's Liaison Officers, then the Bureau has no internal rules, which would be regulated by consumption, this relates primarily to the existence of internal orders, the completion of documents, the insight into budgetary resources, the regulation of purchases, gifts, representations, accommodation costs, leases, compensations for separate lives, contracts for work, etc. and it is very indicative that the predsjednštvo did not respect the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, so our decision, which, by reducing the Presidency's budget and ignoring the recommendations of the audit, which were required to be colluded by organisational units, followed by budgetary costs, which practically opened the space for non-transparent, irresponsible and unequivocal spending of budget money, the Bureau did not have a plan for procurement, a travel plan, did not agree with the Ministry of Treasury and Finance to change the structure of the budget, the budget schedule, the dynamics of consumption, and did not determine responsibility for overcoming its budget by 450 thousand KM and, if so, if the Treasury requested. The Bureau had unlawfully made up a review of the implementation of the budget, because for example it did not increase the capital expenditure in certain cases of vehicle non-identification, the system old for a new one, then, it did not increase the special purpose for the unrecorded purchase of another vehicle, one of the vehicles in the Croatian liaison officer in The Hague, did not reduce the expenditure for the current maintenance, it applied to that repair of 32.882 marks, then multipledly violated the rules for the purchase of a vehicle for the Croatian presidency member, because it had breached the budgetary constraints of 140,000 marks, it accepted the most favourable offer for 3,896 marks, then the Bureau had no established annual purchase plan, did not respect the provisions of the provisions relating to the insurance obligation of three offers, did not select the most favourable offer and purchases of the bidders, which did not go through the tendering of the wrongful documents, were therefore not subject to the legal documents in respecting the provisions of the law in the pre-res of the law, which were not subject to the law of the law of the law of the law, which was not to the law of the law of the law. There have been cases of money being raised in January, and justice in November, which is a kind of unlicensed form of lending, is that, to say the least, the individual costs of the catering services and travel gifts, for example, outside of the unique rules, are approved purchases, let's say 4,000 stamps for suits, one suit has been paid 2,121 KM for a member of the Bureau, then a whole series of bills here have now not to mention, therefore, where there have been no relevant decisions from the Presidency, and the spending of funds has been carried out. Only for representation 211.958 marks, etc. As for the operations of this liaison officer office, I remember when we conducted the debate, there were certain requirements regarding the approval of these funds, of course, our conclusion was not respected, there were also over-stamps from one officer to the other,... but the purchase of vehicles, which were not recorded properly, so that, of course, what to say about it, for example, that the list of 31.12 was not listed on the accounts, etc. It is indeed something that is unacceptable and if, as far as I could understand some of the institutions have subsequently, or somewhere in the middle of the year some of these things, however, removed. For example, how to comment on the fact that for three employees in the Bosniak office in The Hague, the lease was 213,971 KM, then travel expenses are paid improperly, there is no duration, it is only talked about days, of course only instead of 65, 100 marks and, then, there was a certain amount of unintended budget spending to purchase, not only vehicles, but computer equipment, etc. In one word, there was improper, illegal, irrational and wasteful behavior and relationships. We envoys are obliged to say our views on this, of course, we are not in a situation and we should not take this as certain requirements of the pem institutions why we are not relevant, but we are relevant to see, say, warn and ask all public money users that this must be done in accordance with the laws, regulations and, if that is not the case, then, of course, we are obliged to ask for these consistent illegalities to be examined, on the basis of this, in accordance with and appropriate to the powers of the relevant institutions, to process those who are in one way or another knowingly, unconsciously breaking the rules. Of course, my comment is if, behind and after this in their places, everyone and members of the Bureau and the secretary-general and chiefs of cabinets and advisors etc. then there will be a very difficult argument given by the Presidency in particular in that part, which says that this is due to a certain legal non-regulatory of certain issues. It's only partly true, because everywhere where these things are regulated by regulations, there's responsibility, and in that respect I think one of the conclusions should be and ask that everyone does their job and that the respective prosecutions have audits, otherwise 56 is asked the question and the meaning of the existence of an audit as an institution. And, I personally have no dilemmas, the revision is a necessary institution and in a certain way we cannot be a normal state unless the revision is done not only in this way, but also in certain elements preventively, so it is very important to ensure that its recommendations are consistently respected. As for the Pedestrians themselves... done, it seems to me that it would be good to have one president and one chief of staff, not three, one six advisors, not 15, and a large part of these costs by nature things would probably be reduced, which... Looking at the audit findings of these other institutions, really, what I was saying, if I look at... certain activities that are and in...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3261	...a very modest one request to change the Constitution, a small correction, to be one member of the presidency. Reading complete. I would, I think, have already moved on to this second item of the agenda, so, if you agree now, and I think this is so related to having a debate about a united one, we will vote, of course, individually, you will be given the word and the acting director of Mr. Samir Mušović, but before that, of course, we will hear all the delegates who want to speak. I've got Branko Zrno on this display, so Hasan Čengić. Here you go, Comrade Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3262	I welcome you all once again, I will tell you right away, I have not answered to comment on this report, or what we have received as a report from the Office of Audit, because I know from the Commission's work that, in the ninth month, a report will be completed, means, the complete report of the Office for all BiH institutions, which, where the review is carried out, and then we will have the opportunity at one of the next sessions, if there is a need for this, thank Bog, and after the execution of fellow Lim, it seems that there will be a need to open the debate according to these reports, then we can talk specifically about the reports. I answered, only because of that, and first because of that, I will not thank anyone, nor praise anyone, but I must point out that there are people in this country and there are institutions, at least according to what is before us and what we are familiar with who are working, who simply order their jobs and what we have here, who do their job well. I wouldn't say this if it were some ordinary office, if it were just a simple job, it was a very, very complicated job, not to say and whatever else, that I didn't say that this job should also be done, but for every job it takes courage, and so for this job, this job is well done and, what matters, I don't know last year, I don't know if 57 of these institutions, whether parliaments have received this kind of expertise so far, or whether this is the first time we have a full report on the work of our institutions. What I read, and I read the report, and I took part in a debate on witchcraft. What I have read and what is among the words, a grudge even for us as Parliament, is not to God that we have damaged someone or that we have misused the position and thus and budgetary resources, but as regards the law, as regards the rules, as regards complete legitimacy, means a lack in the work of all institutions, over which it is done or better to state the audit, the lack of written act, the lack of law and lack of regulation and more than 50% of indifference, that I do not use another word or irregularities exclusively is the result of these very shortcomings. According to this, the task of this parliament, the state parliament, is to work on it, that what is happening is not happening, and very often because of the lack of a certain act, and also because of the neglect of people. It's very often negligent, not some ugly word, because of the result, or the result, here's what we got in this audit. It was niciative about it, it was also said that it was directly mentioned by my colleague, Brka, on the Commission, that the revision and the Office of Auditing Is not in itself, nor will it be enough to protect, unfortunately, very often both out of ignorance and out of the lack of these acts and laws, to protect this budget, to protect these funds, to form something, which will be a transmission between the bodies, which have money both in this Parliament and also in this office. We somehow called it an internal control, or colleague Brka mentioned that internal control, in which form and in what way, but the fact is that we have to do something and we have to work on it, so we don't get the same report next year. Just so much, I have no intention of repeating what's in the report. We all got it, we all read it, and we all know what it's about. We'll have when, if there's a need for it and we can work it out again, and now I have to say, all the praises of the gentlemen of the Audit Office, who did their job, or who did still part of their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3263	Comrade Čengić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3264	Well, if you'll allow the beginning of Mr. Chairman, I'd like to understand if you two put these points together on purpose after our colleague Tomislav Lijmov's speech, so he doesn't have a chance to talk about another point? I get the impression that's it. And secondly, if we go to this logic Mr. Limov has expressed one concern, will the prosecution do its job properly, since the audit has also found fault with them, and the question of whether the Court would have done the right thing, with regard to the fact that the audit has found the failure there, we have already seen the failures in the Presidency. So, in other words, everything is ripe for revolutionary change. The municipal elections are here and there we are left to abolish the three-member presidency, to appoint a president, who, of course, should be from the SDP. Then all the problems would be solved. If that were the case, I'd have to admit, I'd vote for it. But I'm afraid the state isn't so cheap and I'm afraid solutions aren't so cheap. Therefore, I think it is much cheaper for this country to have three members of the Presidency and an efficient Pedestrianship, which will have to work more efficiently in this field keeping records of spending money and much more rationally than it has done so far, but it is, however, much cheaper than if we do not have those who are talking to go into other solutions. 58 In that sense, I, therefore, am taking the opportunity to thank the report and to support the work and this report by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am very glad that the report was definitely done professionally, that under quotes it was uncompromisingly done, so what was seen was put in place. I'm kind of glad that this office doesn't have a sense of politics, so, even what's obvious is that it's not a intentional failure, but it's a coincidence that the Office doesn't want to treat it that way, but it acted directly by law, so it's fine. As a Parliamentary Assembly, as a House, we must sometimes take care of the circumstances of why or why something was like this, but regardless of all, if we all opted for rational behavior, effective spending of funds, in the sense that we only spend now as much as we have to, and not to spend them quickly when we get them, then it is really unacceptable that we have a budget breakthrough situation, that this breakthrough of an approved budget with some members of the Presidency happens almost after half a year, or that things like that happen, someone who is working to keep track of budget spending that doesn't work, doesn't know the ratios, doesn't work in accordance with regulations etc. Which is also worrying that after the audit has determined the failures, then it finds that there are no certain acts, that there are no certain regulations that lack certain legal regulations, which only the Pedestrians should adopt or some other state institution, I must admit that this shows a kind of irresponsibility. I'm having a hard time locating the full responsibility of the individual right now. I wouldn't do that, I wouldn't say it's a failure of a political party or an individual, on the other hand, to say that it's a failure of those who have elected civil servants, who are now doing certain jobs, so now these officials can't change, they sit there sitting. One is a fact, a significant number of very serious failures were recorded, which I would lay down, not as some quality and capable inspector of a financial or auditor, to divide into those that could further determine technical or legal technical failures by financial and accounting, etc. and those who are called, indeed, one carefree of funds, liability to funds, irresponsibility to publicly collected money, therefore, a non-critical relationship to the fact that I do not want to justify it in any way, nor do I want to accept the argument. However, if we have agreed in general and we generally accept that responsibility should be individualised in much worse things than over budgeting or poor budgeting, then, indeed, I agree with that, that responsibility should be individualised when it comes to failures, related to spending and financial management, and however you will, management and consumption. In that sense, I would like to say that neither all the members of the Bureau have spent the same amount nor have they exceeded the same amount of vehicles, nor have they bought the same number of vehicles, etc. Although in some elements, all members of the Bureau have shared responsibility, precisely those who are the biggest, why did not respond in time to the failures, which exist, why in time did not ask a question of some kind of internal control, such as, also, the situation in which we have the question of why at one of the doors of this building where we are sitting and for which we ourselves are responsible, stands the lock and board, why for years since the four elevators in the main staircase worked one, three do not work, of which again one ugly board is stuck. So sometimes the question is, as if, we're actually wondering who's responsible for something. Obviously, even members of the Bureau could say as to how they would ask their colleague if he had done it or not. However, the responsibility for spending the publicly collected funds is extremely important. She can't be replaced by anything. She's founded by law. It is founded on the fundamental principles of politics, well, if you allow in politics and morals, and I think it is really necessary that the discipline, when it comes to spending and recording and spending, is strengthened in all BiH institutions, including the BiH Presidency, and I believe that 59 would be necessary to implement the conclusions made by our commission, which has been discussed by this report, and I would like, if we were to receive a comprehensive report that our commission then gives one whole proposal of measures and activities, including the Parliamentary Assembly, including our House, in this way, to first ensure that we determine who is responsible for certain failures, irregularities and overrunnings and, secondly, which is equally important, that we avoid what is now recorded through the audit office, as illegal, as unprovoked, as irresponsibly, as non-responsibly, as non-requitably, as non-domous to repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3265	I thank my colleague, Čengić. I give my word to Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3266	...I thank Mr. Auditors for doing a very good job. I join Mr. Zrn, who here said that we had discussed it very seriously and we have opinions, but I would join that other attitude when he said that, however, there were no complete reports for all the institutions, that they would be very soon finished, in ten days, that we would have them in our hands in September and that then we would be able to take a comprehensive look at these materials, take our positions and go out to Parliament. That's why I'd ask my colleagues not to talk about this subject anymore, but to leave it for September, that shouldn't be the subject at six o'clock in the afternoon, after the whole agenda when we're tired, because it's a serious thing, and now I'd suggest we just hear Mr. Auditors and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3267	I would, however, like to draw attention to the report, the audit report, which concerns the BiH Parliament. If the BiH Parliament has the ambition to discuss the reports of other institutions, then in my opinion they must first clean up in front of their house and finish the job with themselves, so that it can, in order to gain some moral right to discuss others. It should be okay and this audit team, the auditors have made an observation and we all have it on us here, on the work of our parliament. I would pray that if you have not read that we conclude that the administration, or the joint service of this Parliament, must and should be required by the new year, to remove all these shortcomings, which are suggested by the revision and, simply, to be an institution that works properly and properly, and therefore to get the right to notice other irregularities and to criticise them, or to call for responsibility for irregularities. I would like to right now, I will propose this as a conclusion and please, you will have the opportunity to state whether we are in order to remove our joint services, or Parliament BiH, within a short period of time, until the new year, all of these shortcomings, which are suggested by the auditory house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3268	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Who else wants to talk from the MPs? Since no one is answering, I invite Mr. Samir Mušović's general auditor to speak to us on behalf of the auditory house. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3269	Good evening, good evening, I thank you for your opportunity to address this honored home and representatives of the respected home. Dear gentlemen, I would now use this time to help you with your conclusions, both at this session and at a session in September. I would like to inform you that the Office of Audit, slightly speeded up its activities, and today, at four o'clock, delivered a number of 15 reports to the Parlmentary Assembly, so we are except for two reports or three, which we left behind for September, which relate to the Official Messenger, the Employment Institute, etc. We have today all reports completed according to the Parliamentary Assembly. However, in September, we plan to deliver a summary of the accounts in 2003 and in this summary, we want to focus on the most significant findings in 2003, found, also repeated from year to year, and we plan to inform the Parliamentary Assembly and the public about all the missing rules and those regulations and rules of consumption that are not sufficiently regulated today. If you let me look back at one of the previous points and, if it's very serious, as far as the Audit Office is concerned, we think, I feel like we're writing reports in Latin with Cyrillic, so it's a language that I just feel like we're communicating with such a language, which people either don't want to understand or not understand. This year, because we repeat the largest number of our findings year by year, we decided to take one move, which is common, can be found in the literature to address the public and thus draw attention or attention to the shortcomings in the system that already seriously threaten the functioning of the system. What does that mean? This means that we have seen something that you need to know, which is that we have seen behaviour, one relaxed behavior or to say abuse of the lack of rules, and when there are no rules, when there are no norms, there is no punishment, and we have seen individuals relying on such a single legal vacuum, not just individuals and groups, whether it's relying on whether it's based on premeditation or without premeditation on an act that I would not like to characterise, let the competent institutions do it, but it was time to draw attention to such a phenomenon, to the appearance of a large number of findings, which have been repeated in many, many budget users. I wouldn't be here talking about the revolution if that term was used. What we need, this fall in September, and that's the turn-off and we're thinking about this platform, which we've achieved with this year's reports, we can take turns in public spending. The turn doesn't have to be dramatic. But a twist can begin with the adoption of system rules and rules. Mr. Chairman, honored gentlemen, eight to ten of the conversators we're contacting say our business has nothing to do with it. And we're getting a little bit aware of that. We submit reports year by year and thank you for the adopted reports and I must tell you that we are not ungrateful, but we do not lack adopted reports. What we're missing is action, activity, system editing, system moves. 61 I also have to tell you that it's not all black, but it's our job to write about shortcomings and failures. I would also like to say that there must be an anti-sub-audit and our reports. Many Western democracies, if you want mate antipd audits, with the help of NGOs, are making the right annual competitions on the best office, on the best office, on the best ministry that provides its services to citizens or the best civil servant who is declared at one of the evo's official ceremonies and receives a state reward and it must exist as there is an audit, as there is a prosecutor's office and a court and punishment, there must be a reward. Still standing and waiting from us and from you your actions and activities. And, if you'll excuse me, I would have ended up as we've already heard that term, by taxing, but I'm going to be shorter, with the necessary acts and activities, which I should have taken, if not, then in September after this resume, and that's about the necessary adoption, I'm reading this for a stenogram. The necessary adoption of the Internal Audit Regulation, the control of budget implementation. The necessary adoption of a system concept or platform, a framework for internal console systems, to be upgraded with each budget user. It is necessary to adopt an internal control manual, which will help every budget user to improve their internal control system in their institution. It is necessary to allocate additional resources from the budget or save from the existing budget to establish an internal audit function, meaning the special internal audit office in the case of the largest budget beneficiaries, the function of the internal auditor. It is primarily thought of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, secondly, the Ministry of Foreign Psols, thirdly, the State Border Service, the fourth SIP Agency, the fifth, the BiH presidency and other users. Here I would like to refer a little bit to these comments you made regarding the Parliamentary Assembly, including the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. The audit findings shall not interfere with the institution's measurement or its basic function. The audit findings concern the financial operations of that institution and cannot interfere with the institution, i.e. the prosecution to file charges or the Court of Justice to shut up. These are weaknesses and we view them as temporary and we are most forward to the future. Therefore, ours was to inform both you and the public and expect that these institutions, including further improve the system. What I would refer to is your comment on the Parliamentary Assembly, it would be good to avoid the same mistake that was made in the Presidency. All of Europe, all of the presidents in Europe, have transferred their powers to the proper services. And, in your case, you transferred your powers to the Secretariat. It is very important that you do not forget to exercise control of the delegated powers. It means you keep the continuity of control of the delegated powers. So the third person comes to you by law or by revision of the yearly, and first of all, you here one of your sessions in the quarter have to devote the function of control over the delegated powers, i.e. the sekretarijat. Our expectations are that after September review of the summary, the annual report, that at the level of the institutions, there are no systemic spending rules for hundreds of budget items and rules simply do not exist, or the existing rules are not clear enough, including missing laws. I draw your attention that the BiH state does not have a central register of state property. At this point, no one in BiH, including the Office of Audit, has made it clear how many state institutions have vehicles available to their, borrowed or borrowed third parties on our part, there is simply no such records as no vehicles, so there are no 62 for offices, no tables, no chairs, no computers, no resting places, no other mobile and non-payment property. We expect, too, that each budgetary user, by order of the Parliamentary Assembly, on your orders, will adjust these system rules within a reasonable period of 30 days once they are adopted or adopted by the ass, to adapt to the needs of the budgetary user and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers in return, and the rules you publish, publications and budget users about the transparent spending of public money. Next, it is necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly to establish a monitoring of the implementation of its conclusions. Changes and improvements required in the audit reports, that the monitoring is done quarterly and that the public reports at least half-yearly. It is necessary for each budget user to report quarterly to the Parliamentary Assembly on the activities he has taken on the recommendations made by the audit in the latest report. We believe that the first step could be to adopt an official document of the Parliamentary Assembly, which would programmely cover those activities, which should be taken and sorted by the operators of the activities, by the deadlines for each specific task. Such a document, such a programme document, can only be adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That would be that turn, and then we would stop feeling like we were speaking Latin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3270	I thank Mr Mušović. There are no more applications for discussion. I think these suggestions are useful in addressing Mr. Musovic. We had here and a proposal for conclusions, a proposal for the conclusion of our administrative and financial committee, which, if you listened carefully at first, presented by the chairman of the Commission, Mr Radovićć and I suggest that during my resignation Mr Pamuk also suggested one of the conclusions, which was actually sublimated in Mr Mušović's discussion. Therefore, if we adopt a report that I have no doubt, I suggest we adopt these suggestions, which we received from the audit office. Mr. Limov answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3271	I, Mr. Persidian, answered twice for the replica, but I didn't get my word. It's possible it's technical. Namely, I answered the moment Mr. Čengić started speaking, and then later when he confirmed practically everything that I was saying, then the question of meaning was raised. I would like one of the conclusions to be, that the audits are being forwarded to the relevant state bodies, therefore, to the prosecution and to the others. So, uh, as far as the comments on the president and the presidency are concerned, you are, I understand, but Mr. Čengić said a solution that didn't occur to me, this about the SDP, but if he thinks so, I don't mind. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3272	I suggest you go get some coffee after this, so we can swap this guy's toothpicks a little bit. I am voting on it, firstly voting on the review report of the BiH Presidency for 2003. I'm opening a vote. A unanimously adopted report by the Office for Auditing the BiH presidency. Ad.25. The report by the BiH institutions' audit office would now, at 25th point, mean that the audit office's review report for the BiH institutions for 2003, given that we held a hearing on both points of the agenda, I would open a vote on this report. Open vote. So, 11 for, no one abstention, no one against, this report was accepted. Congratulations on the audit office. And now we should make clear on the proposal for the conclusions of our administrative-financial committee, enriched with this proposal of Mr pamuk's conclusion and suggestions. So, I invite you to come forward with a proposal for these conclusions. I'm opening a vote. 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I find that the conclusions have been adopted. I'm taking a 15-minute break. I suggest for the audit office, people are here all day. This point is about them, to finish this point and give a break from 15 minutes later, and we invite people from the coffee audit. Ad.26. Giving consent to the appointment of the general auditor of the BiH Financial Institution Financial Audit Office We have received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives agreed to appoint a general auditor of the BiH Financial Audit Office to continue its 41st session, with the conclusion that the candidate's term of office is up to the end of the current term of office for auditors, as well as that that candidate has the right to participate in the competition for the selection of auditors for the next term. I'll remind you that the appointment agreement has been given to Mr. Milan Šega as the auditor general. So, I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to give the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH consent for the appointment of Milenko Šega as General Auditor? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3273	With the conclusion he gave as well as the House of Representatives. Okay, just for the record. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3274	So, I'm opening a galsing on who's to give consent to the appointment of Milenko Šega, as the general auditor? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity. 11 for, no one against. I agree that it was agreed to appoint Milenko Šega, the general auditor of the BiH institution's financial audit office. At the same time, not at the same time, but now I propose an identical conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives, therefore, that the term of office should continue until the current term of office for auditors, as well as that that candidate has the right to take part in a competition for the selection of auditors for the next term. I'm opening a vote. I find unanimous 11 for, no one abstention, no one against that conclusion. I'm giving a 15-minute break for coffee. With this session of ours today... [[PAUZA]] Ad.27. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income tax and capital report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. I'm opening a debate. No one's got anything. All right, all right. I'm opening a vote. Who's to give consent to ratification, the vote open. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I understand that we unanimously agreed to ratify this agreement. We move to the 28th point of today's agenda. Ad.28. Information on the activities of the People's House on the implementation of BiH's performance study obligations, in order to start negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, you have received material for this agenda point. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point and I would suggest that Mr. Čengić speak to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3275	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I find it very interesting that none of the representatives of the Council of Ministers attend this item of the agenda. I hope this is not signifiable and that this does not show the Council of Ministers' relationship to this subject. 65 Secondly, I am taking the opportunity to thank you for making such discussions on the agenda that you from the College obviously decided to show that the alignment of the texts of the law is much more important than the performance of your obligations than the Performance Study. I don't think that such a message was necessary for you or for us, the House, and for that reason, the least I can do is suggest that instead of information, we treat this with a real report, as the Commission has proposed to you at your request. And now to inform the House and the esteemed colleagues that the Commission has prepared this information, this report and the materials that you have received, on the proposal of the College, of our colleague, of the House, because the College has estimated that this is the last moment to see how far we have come in carrying out our duties, what we should do, in order to reach the deadlines and dates that are, in fact, set. Let me take a little bit of reverse order, and he's been going like this. You know that in the European Union the elections have been made, a month ago from the opportunity and the results of these elections in terms of the composition of the European Commission or the Government of United Europe will be seen on November 1st. Since 1 November, almost all new people have been coming to the European Commission or the Government. People who have been involved so far, especially like Mr. Paten and others, they're definitely leaving, so they're not members anymore. It will happen that we will have the opportunity to have people, who were not involved in the activities in BiH, did not cooperate, did not come to BiH, did not report directly, as current members of the European Commission were. If we miss an opportunity for them to make a recommendation to their successors, to start negotiations with BiH on stabilisation and accession, on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there is a real danger that this delay can happen relatively long. For some, maybe six months, some even longer. This would be very bad and, for this reason, we are suggested from the European Commission, and then from their office in Sarajevo, but also from our Council of Ministers, to try to reach some terms, in order to, however, get a final positive result for what we have been doing in BiH for a very long time, and what we do in this conference very well. This is, by 30 September of this year, to try at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to pass the envisaged laws and implement, namely, ensure and achieve a high degree of progress in the 16 areas of implementation, which are needed to start negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In that sense, our commission had a conversation with our directorate in the Council of Ministers for European Affairs and we agreed that we in the commission prepare a review of the law and implementation activities where the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible. And now let me put it this way, relaxing, easier topics than those that were just about the audit reports, here, I'll tell you the following. We prepared this report on 23.7, and you probably have it on your benches. From 23rd to 29th, in six days, there have been several important changes for me, really important changes. Whoever has a review of this table, the list, so the laws adopted, he'll see, in fact, that this no longer applies. Now there are no more 18 passed laws, 22 of which are completely passed. And now it's not the 22 we need to adopt, it's the 18th. So, we are, just today, what would you say finished half the work, which, in my opinion, is very important. The second thing that matters is that here in this table you have a review of all the laws, here I have marked these laws a little bit. So, these four laws, which so far stood to be adopted, are now completed, and the four laws that were here at the bottom were not entered into parliamentary procedure 66. Today all four of these last laws down on the list have already been adopted at our home. It was discussed whether, yesterday or not, but rather at the House of Representatives, the constitutional basis was accepted. In other words, everyone here mentioned the laws, now they're in fact already in the process. For that reason, I can inform you of the following. According to our analysis, there's plenty of time planned for the procedure, so that all laws can be passed on one condition. That we in both homes, especially us in our home, are really well organized in September and that we are doing very seriously. We have, therefore, 18 laws in a very different degree of achievement. Here's today, these two we've been discussing the tv service and the system, and they're in those 18 that haven't finished yet. We've got more. So, we should do our best now, really, and in that sense, I personally think that we should predict that the first week of September should be working on the commissions, doing what we can, and then three weeks next week we should schedule to have a meeting at home in fact every week and, in the meantime, work and prepare for the next sessions of the House in order to get this 30. When it comes to the execution of other obligations, they are, in particular, obligations, which are the duties of the Council of Ministers or institutions in the power of the Council of Ministers, one dilemma with us, and it is next. For some institutions that were formed after the budget was brought in for this year 2004, no funds were therefore granted. These institutions, meanwhile, were formed and started to work. Some institutions may have to form in September and October and start working. There was a question of how to solve the funding. The answer is according to what we received from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury that it exists in Article 6 of the budget that was made for this year 2004, the possibility that the last decisions of the Council of Ministers would provide funds and guarantees, therefore, the precise purpose of these funds for these new institutions, which would mean that it would not be necessary to rebalance the budget by 30 September, but by applying these, these rules of Article 6 of the budget, can be resolved. For this reason, the conclusions you have made, both number six in conclusions and statements, attitude number...2 have been applied in a certain way, so we no longer propose a budget revision, but we propose that the Council of Ministers make these specific decisions to ensure the funds. In the end, if you'll let me, I'll say the following. We've well-analyzed the conclusions and I think it would be good if we had to discuss them, we're willing to talk and answer any questions. This is, indeed, the least we would have to adopt, as far as the conclusions are concerned, and then we should accept this statement, in order to direct it to the authorities of BiH, but also to the European Commission and other institutions, which are related to the European Commission, confirming our readiness, therefore, to be prepared to pass these envisaged laws by the end of September. The assessment, of all the people involved in this, is that if we succeed in bringing these 40 laws to the Parliamentary Assembly by September, this level of implementation, which we now have, would be sufficient for the European Commission to give a recommendation to its successors that they set a time to start negotiations. It's a day-to-day thing. She'll go on and she's certainly something that needs to be monitored over and over and over again. In the end, but in my opinion, very important, the government of each country is a very important institution and it takes care of daily affairs. Parliament's position in this case is the position of the Parliamentary Assembly and the communication of the Parliamentary Assembly in the form of a decision, an important and strong message from the European Commission. 67 My fellow Members, you are all witnesses of how serious and hard we have worked, so this is no praise, no pre-election campaign, we have much more work to do, but we have worked hard and we have done a lot of work. It would be a shame, indeed, if this great job, our predecessors for over a year and for us for over a year and a half, we are now not coronating with a result that would be called passing these laws. I don't think one law should be passed overnight, I don't think it's necessary to break it over my knee and bring it just to meet the conditions I've never considered it. I simply believe that there is an objective space for us to work in September to achieve this goal with maximum order and determination. I think that would indeed be an extraordinary progress in every sense for BiH and that would be a final confirmation that BiH institutions are not only determined but also able to realise the commitments they have made and to implement the promises we have already made. In that sense, I suggest next. To accept the conclusions, to accept this statement and to subsequently send the statement to those to whom it should be addressed within BiH and the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3276	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who wants to talk more? I have a need as a delegate, has Osman Brka and Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3277	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, I support what is... Mr. Cengic. I have no doubt that anyone else will support it, I mean they won't support it, we'll all be sure to support it, and I suggest that our college organises a good September month, so that we can commend you on October 1st.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3278	I'd like to thank my colleague, Brk. It's Mr Filipović's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3279	Very short on this statement that has been proposed. So these conclusions are basically acceptable, too, but I think right now here, I'm being asked to parfid something, promise, etc., which is objectively possible not to be. Here is the word under point 2 that we undertake to adopt the remaining set of laws by the end of the 9th month, including the laws that we had today in our first reading. So the laws of the Federation are defined, language and information, so the language of information, check this out, as on the list of vital national interests. Unless we're satisfied with the debate we've been having, with the solutions in that law, I'm not sure we'll have this law to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3280	I thank my colleague Filipović. On this background, I also had one correction to the text of the statement, which is at point 2 of paragraph 2, where the House finds that 20 laws or more have been adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly so far, no, 20, so that the remaining 20 are in parliamentary procedure. Eh, now, this House undertakes that the remaining laws under the proposed dynamics will be adopted by the end of September 2004, so what is hypothetically possible and not so. I would suggest a sentence that the House undertakes to take all necessary actions at the adoption of the law, because we cannot say 68 now we will adopt, and tomorrow, let's say, the Serbian Club knocks down some law or Hrvat or Bošnjak. I think this is more acceptable, and the point is the same, the essence is the same. We have a registered Mr. Radovanović now. There's a debate going on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3281	Here I would like to welcome this proposal and say that the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, that it has really done one big job and I would like to say that the Directorate for European Integration has been working very well on this job and otherwise I think they are doing a pretty good job. On the way, I would like to criticise the Commission for European Integration, the Joint Commission on the House of Parliamentary Assembly, because I think that what this Commission did was to be done by the Commission for European Integration. In addition, by adopting this statement and this conclusion and the programme, I think it is half-way through the adoption of the BiH House of Representatives, and if the Joint Commission had done so, it would have been prepared automatically for the House of Representatives. I don't know. It's been a couple of months lately. That commission's done some work, even though at the beginning, when it was founded, it was doing a very, very good job. But lately, since I'm a member of that commission, that commission hasn't met for a few months. I'm saying it's my opinion that this committee should have done it. And I'd have another concrete suggestion. As for the bill's adoption program. All the laws of the Programme of Activities Implementation Priorities are in this here. However, there is a Census Act, which is a priority of 12a, listed in this programme, but it is not here in this programme. And I think that he, in fact, is not intended to be adopted, but he is scheduled to enter the procedure by 30 May, or be prepared, and I would suggest that this law be put down in the last place, and put the date 30.07. as the date of entry into Parlamen, 30.09., excuse me, the date of entry into Parliament as the deadline until which this law should be adopted in Parliament, because at the top of 12.a) he stands, he says it should be made by 30.05 this year, that and that we put him in this programme at the last place with 30.09. to be prepared and to enter the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3282	Okay, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3283	So, very briefly. kolega Radovanović knows well that this law is foreseen in the definition of the European Commission, to make some progress in the preparation of the law. So you, Mr. Chairman, are just now saying that you would change this definition a little bit, to loosen the position of the House, or that the House would not be very attached. Mr Filipović very similarly discussed that we will not say that we will, but we will make an effort to. If we are abstentions in lawmaking, or we are not sure enough that we will pass laws that are directly on the list, then I see no reason for us to still make a commitment to ourselves anymore in what is not in itself an obligation at this time. 69 Therefore, one such census in my opinion is not realistic. Secondly, I don't see the basis that we can now prescribe the lawmaker that he must do so by 30 September, the proposal and we have no obligation to adopt it by 30 September. I think it's important to work on that law, but in this way we're actually extending our obligations to what we can't do, instead of focusing on these obligations at this point to meet them, and then going to the next step. We'll have a lot more after that than these 40 now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3285	I'd just like a little bit. Uh, I agree that we can't put ourselves on a mission right now to pass that law. However, the law is in the Prioritisation Programme and priority 12.a....the statistical law remains to prepare the population census law, the deadline of 31.07. is that. So, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3286	Just give me a minute, if I can get one more and I won't answer again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3287	I said we put him in the program to get in the process, that it was our request to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3288	Here's a concrete experience regarding the other laws currently on this list. Additional efforts have been made. So really additional efforts to make the law, these four laws that are here, after they were adopted at the Council of Ministers in 12 days' time, come into parliamentary procedure and they told us that it was unreal and that it was almost impossible, because there is so much work to be done. So perhaps we are not all equally directed to what procedure it is, after the Council of Ministers says at the session today, this is accepted, what else should be done to formally present this same proposal in the Parliament Assembly in the procedure of the first day? So it's just that it would be possible if it was finished, so all it takes is for the Council of Ministers to discuss this and then send it to the procedure, where you have the next situation. August is an unemployed month for both us and for the Council of Ministers and for the Directorate and for everyone else and then to give such a single task and thus only by this one element actually to tear down the whole programme. I mean, let's just see this. Are we gonna send a message saying we're ready to do what we need to do or not? I mean, we understand each other about one key thing, people. I would rather than see Dr. Vinko Radovanović see this law and 20 other laws, and full implementation, I am aware that there are still very big problems in implementation. So not small but big problems. If they are, if the European Commission insists on every detail of the implementation, then they probably won't take us even to think about it, not to consider it. So in this 70 sense, we now have to go towards, in my opinion, what to do to get into a position to really get a term for negotiations, and then all in that, while we wait for that term, while it's being determined, until the negotiations start, we'll have so much time to work on everything that's being implemented and what's new laws. There's only one question here, are we going to do it today, but literally today, because there's no tomorrow, send a message to the European Commission that we're for this or we're not. Finally, let me just remind you that Mr. Kris Paten was staying here last Thursday, and that the chairman of the Council of Ministers met Mr. Kris Paten, that the Parliamentary Assembly and especially the House of Peoples prepared a programme of activities to reach deadlines by September 30th. This was the basis for the European Commission's chairman and minister in charge of the European Commission's foreign affairs together, following their return from BiH where they attended the opening of the bridge, statements -- significant progress has been made in economic reforms and other reforms in BiH. Now the question is whether we send that message or not. I believe that each of you could make much better conclusions than these here and a much better statement than this one. But do we have more time for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3289	We certainly have until the end of today's session. I really don't see that anyone here has any bad intentions when this is a question, and especially what this has come up with is whether, at the College's initiative, our commission has done what it has done and it's really for every commendation, but I really don't see any reason why we don't modify certain words, sentences I don't know either in these proposed conclusions and in the text of the statement. Especially in the light of the fact, here I am now speaking as a delegate whether, given that I have been involved from the very beginning in this business, it was the idea to be the speaker of the Parliamentary Assembly first by home, and then we came up with the idea that we could sign this jointly by the chairman of both homes, so that it would happen now at this last session of the House of Representatives, that they Kolegijum actually authorised the President-in-Office of the House in fact that he, as I am informed of a statement of some kind on this matter. So, I, it is my desire that this paper in the same text be signed by both the chairmans of the Parliamentary Assembly, because it only then has power, because what we are going to do if these are not going to bring another House, especially by respecting our principle that we are going after them. So they have to be on a certain, not on a certain but fully integrated business, and this is actually a joint job. So on this background, we should see how to send this message, according to counterpart Čengić, to officials, according to the EU, on our readiness. I really don't see anyone trying to divulge anything with their discussion. No need, I'm personally committed here to adopt this, only I had a proposal to modify this text in this Article 2. Col. Filipović felt that Article 2 of this point 2 should be eliminated but here we go, let's go, the debate goes on. I give my word to Mr. Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3290	So, I'm also joining in a positive assessment of what our commission has done and, of course, I would notice that this, we seem nice that this is still the last point because this is about us having to commend ourselves, because we've also earned 71 colleges and commissions and this House as a home as a whole, according to what this material actually says. So it's time for this to be the last point, so we don't get to brag about this, this for the President of the Commission. So, I agree with the content of this, and conclusions and statements. I am, therefore, free to propose that this one, or I am only free to suggest a stylishly clean one, a little grooming of this statement that should be directed to the public and to these notations that were intended, so I would ask this particular president and members of the commission and all of course here to pay attention to these proposals that are quite well-intentioned and that respect the fact that the job has been done and that it can be arranged now. This is just a grooming. So, I wouldn't know a little bit about the title of the statement, because I mean sending it to the media about meeting the obligations of the Performance Study, I think you know what it is, to simplify yourself a little bit. But here I don't insist, so, if it's possible, my colleague Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3291	How'd it go?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3292	Declaration on the fulfilment of the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina or of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the Implementation Study, in order to launch negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. The weight's on this other one, I mean for the media, for the public, I think. So, the Declaration on compliance with the obligations from, is it necessary from the Implementation Study to start negotiations on the Stabilisation Agreement, thus strengthening the actual weight of this statement. And if you allow this, then, the House of Peoples welcomes the results of BiH's competent institutions, without all of them, a small style one, is not necessary but in fulfilling the obligations of the Implementation Study and, in particular, the adoption of a package of 40 laws by the Council of Ministers of BiH. So, pure style correction. Now the position of this second -- the House of Nations stresses the exceptional importance of this process for BiH, expresses its full readiness to carry out its obligations in this programme by the end of September 2004. We are at peace with these two proposals, which were sent by counterpart Filipović and fellow Milojević, because we cannot be obliged and the House finds that 22 laws have been passed in the Parliamentary Assembly so far, that the remaining 20 laws will be in parliamentary procedure. There's no need for this. This is reconciliation, so these two examples, and it's more stylishly said. Here three, support shall be given to the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments and other competent authorities in respect of the implementation of the performance of the performance obligation and, at the same time, of all the requirements of determining the dynamics of the activities by the end of September 2004 in order to meet the obligations and meet the conditions for starting Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations. Here's what's important -- and since we're going to refer this to the media. The House undertakes to consider the Budget Institution's Budget of BiH proposal as soon as possible,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3293	It's all changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3294	Is that it? Okay, nothing 72.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3295	By no longer going to Rebalance the budget at all
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3296	Nothing, then this throws out if it's this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3297	Is replaced by another text
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3298	Well, if that second text is accepted, and that's in this one, and that's this one, I've read that first, first statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3299	Yeah, but that's all that's changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3300	Yeah, good, good. Now, I'm just asking you this, this face, in the belief that it speaks, to express commitment. Not convinced me, but convinced me that here if you want a conviction, though we are an institution, a home. So we need this little bit of this, is in the belief that it expresses commitment or that it expresses the commitment of all institutions in BiH, the House of Peoples calls, calls on the House of Peoples. We replace this – we, abstractally with – is the home of the people of Hassan. Yeah, I mean, you agree that this is it. I, to continue...extremely important support in this BiH process based on the results achieved and that, based on the results achieved, a proposal to start negotiations and that based on the results achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3301	(?) Please, just the two to see if it's Mr. Milojević, this proposal, did he include this yours or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3302	Yes, it is. Here we go in line. Vinko Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3303	It's just, as far as I understand Mr. Čengić, he has information that nothing has been done on this law, so that the law could not have been reached by the end of September in parliamentary procedure. I can't figure out that the deadline that was 31.05 for this law to be prepared, that we are now in late July, that it didn't start working on that law at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3304	73 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3305	All right, given the importance of this law, which should be passed because of all the things to be implemented in statistics, which is one of the priorities for starting negotiations, here we may give up on the agenda but that one conclusion goes with this programme, that, given the importance of the adoption of this law, we are asking the Council of Ministers and other authorising officers to end this work and instructions in parliamentary procedure by the end of September. To speed up the work and give some time to go into procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3306	We have point 3 of this statement, where it says, is supported by the Council of Ministers, Entity Governments and other competent authorities on the implementation of the performance obligations of the Implementation Study at the same time as all the requirements of determining the dynamics of the activities by the end of September 2004. Then I don't see why we shouldn't give them, especially since we realized that these laws are now in parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3307	Well, it's a good thing we gave them
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3308	Wait a minute, one at a time. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr Filipović, so Hilmo, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3309	Here, very briefly therefore, all of this so far, so far as we've heard, you're bringing into a very ungrateful position of the Croatian Club in this House about a statement about this statement. So she's necessary, she's needed, she's like an act given by the Parliamentary Assembly by an extremely strong message this, there's no doubt about it. But forgive me, the House of Representatives has no position on this, and we now want to extort this House of Bianko and the Croatian Club's statement against the package and in this two-law package that we have been talking about in the House of Representatives for days is you know that there has been a fierce story here, there have been some softened views of the motionors and MPs, and I have to notice that here. A slightly softer relationship was to our request for three national channels on the state media and I just want to warn you, here in the first point is also about the special adoption of a whole package of 40 laws. So, we can't accept that because we're not sure that according to what you've told us so far, in relation to our initiative, to our amendments and through the commission phase and through the debate here, so we'll have that law by the end of the 9th month. He suggests that by the end of September or by the end of September, by the end of the 9th month, Mr Neimarlija would be guaranteed in this statement that we would have all these laws. Please, it is two laws that are defined in the Constitution of the Federation and in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in an identical way in the list of vital national interests as a system of public information, i.e. a system or a system of public information in Article 70 relating to Amendment 77 to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If we do not receive the passage of three channels, which we consider reasonable and rational and equal for 74 hrvat compared to the other two peoples, you will have drawn a(). The interest you will have will have that law in September, either in September or September, because the Constitutional Court will again, until it gets it, and until it decides, it will pass for one two months. Just that he was there, was Mr. patiti, that my dad was, listen when the question is vital interest defined in the Constitution of my people, and it's about the law and now you want me to raise your hand for this. So let's keep this in mind. I think this is the bad job we're doing. Don't extort from us a pre-bianko signature on this statement and I am personally expressing a terrible reserve, therefore, because of this all that I've made, according to this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3310	I thank my colleague Filipović. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3311	I applied for one other thing, but this is the first chance I got to look back at this one, instead of a fellow Filipović. But I kept this, and in particular the adoption of a whole package of laws by the BiH Council of Ministers, because they adopted it. Watch out, so this stands, this is a fact. And I changed this second one to point 2. The House undertakes to adopt the remaining laws according to the proposed dynamics. I just turned it off, because no one can make a commitment, we don't know if we're going to adopt. They're gonna think we can't guarantee ourselves, be careful I don't think we have a right like that, I don't know how we're gonna do it. We don't know the result, so I think I appreciate this. Please, then, but don't make any misunderstandings with your colleague Filipović. The Council of Ministers adopted and we are, instead of this colleague, Čengić, to carry out his duties in this programme. So, all the laws will be considered. Will they adopt them? That's what we'll see, but he's taking on the obligation to consider them, because he's also in charge of the end. So, please, I don't think there's any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3312	If we're going to have them by the 9th month, it's a futuristic delusion again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3313	We'll watch until then do our duty by considering, so we've already included them in the procedure, we're all this, constitutional basis, I think we've adopted all these laws. So this is why I rule out the possibility of just saying that we're going to adopt them, because then we adopted them right now if we said we were going to make them with this statement, don't you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3314	This programme is in point 1. In point 2, we're saying that we're going to carry out our obligations in full, from this program, that's 40 laws, that's not true in case there's a vital interest in this law (?). Is it true? There you go, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3315	No, no, no, our colleague Filipović, I think now 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3316	So we haven't set the text correctly, it's unacceptable for us and I personally think that the Hrvat will express the reserve according to this statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3317	Well, I just removed this one, I think I'm this one, I'm really here not to bring this kind of dialogue, but I thought I removed the reason. I believe here's what I'm pleading to be true to the fact that it's our duty to carry out our duties, because we're obliged to carry out our duties. We've taken this exercise of our duties, but here it's just termologically, in fact, in terms we're bound to this, this study itself. It doesn't mean that we're going to adopt them, because if this in this original version were to adopt statements like this, that means we've already passed this law, whatever it means Hasane logically means. That we will carry out our obligations, consider them, take them out to the vote, vote, or eventually we will not vote, or vote, so this will be an inclusive vital interest, which all includes this, or excludes nothing else. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3318	of vital interest to a nation, so that you dispute that it is vital interest, and it says in the Constitution if it were, uh, I would, so I wouldn't answer the word at all. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3319	But the integral part of our work is that one of us claims that it's not vital and the other is, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3320	It says in the Constitution that the system of public information or information in RS is in the Constitution that it is a matter of vital national interest, you have assured us that it, that it is all ok, that we understand each other very well, so that I do not open
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3321	But I'm not a colleague of mine at all with this content, and I'm not saying either. I'm not saying it's not vital interest, I'm not saying anything, I'm not bringing results, I'm just saying that in this time we're going to deal with these laws and carry out our obligations. Consider them, I'm for that reason, and this is me, so I think this is a perfectly normal solution, not to judge the outcome of the work, not to prejudge, you prejudge the outcome. This statement that I have now modified it does not prejudge the outcome of our work, not adoption, but consideration. So that's one thing. And the second I just wanted to say that I'm keeping this statement meaningful because we're in some sense whether, we can say, we deserve to come up with a statement like this, that this one optimistic or optimistic note that she has and the message to the public, we deserve to broadcast it, send it, and receive it from the public. I don't know how he'll react. Whether it will improve some state of mind, I'm not sure, but I'm sure we deserve to pass these laws, and work to make one statement to the public like this, and I forgot here in my first announcement to say this, to ask that this statement, to adopt it now in the final text, and to immediately refer to the media as the content of the information from today's session, without waiting for 2 or 3 days when it is as information related to today's deplacement session with this. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3322	I thank my colleague Neimarlija. I believe we're on track here to find the right solution. Here, I give my word to Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3323	It's not a replica, it's an attempt to get a statement. So, if someone didn't think that the Hrvat or I personally who advocated this position, this one I took the right to fight for a statement that won't hurt not to say someone you signed off on, now who's going to do it again, something when we're discussing the amendments, etc. So I want to remove this one, is Parliamentarians very sensitive to every detail or each point, not the procedure. So, I'd be pleased to say to the other colleagues, so the first point doesn't bother me like this. But the second point is extremely attached to the second point of the first, to this above execution. I propose that the second paragraph be deleted in point 2 and the first item to read – the House of Peoples stresses the exceptional importance of this process for BiH and expresses hope for the implementation of the commitments in this programme. Please express hope, so it can be and may not be. So that's acceptable. I mean, I don't know why, so here and then we can say this, and this nine-month term still remains as Mr. Čengić suggested on behalf of the commission. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3324	Okay, I give my word to Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3325	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll do it very briefly. Here we are, here we have finished our consultation without our one member sitting upstairs in the presidency. For the Serbian delegates' club, these repairs are acceptable, and we don't mind, it's only important that we achieve unity here. So it's also acceptable that Mr. Neimarlija and Mr. Filipović do. Mr. Čengić, please do not combine the statement and conclusions with what my colleague Radovanović suggested in the first version. We're giving out that conclusion, so we want to conclude that we're suggesting, so without this. We'll finish this. The conclusions and statements we will support with these repairs to finance, but the conclusion that fellow Radovanović is, we are looking separately. We suggest to the Council of Ministers that some of the laws that were in priority, e.g. The Census Act, which was to come to procedure from 31.05., means, a separate conclusion, that we suggest or inform or warn the Council of Ministers to make the necessary preparations speedily, etc. Otherwise it will happen that we, individually as delegates, will make a law and bring it into parliamentary procedure because we have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3326	Mr. Čengić 77
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3327	So, here's the deal. First, the answer to Mr. Šiljegović's proposal. I accept the idea that, as a separate conclusion, we go with this attitude. It is very simple to ask the Council of Ministers to speed up activities on laws that are not within the 40-law package, which are the obligation of BiH to the European Commission, including Zkaon o, well, it is acceptable for me, to speed up the activities, not to fix it for this. Now please listen carefully. I know I'm in a position to say I'm inflexible, etc. But this, I'm making this very clear now. The proposal you received was the result of extensive consultations with the Council of Ministers, as a consequence of the consultations I had with the kolegij, with all members of the light-headed members of the College individually. I hope that you will also confirm the consequences of one mood, to get a statement that is clear enough, none of us are at the time when we prepared this paper that was signed on 27. had a vision that Mr. Ilija Filipović would say that in three languages, the official language in BiH is vital national interest. Therefore, if Mr Filipović is to say that I or members of the commission have been doing this material with the imagination to force the Club of Croatian MPs or delegates to accept these laws and when they do not like it, it simply does not stand. At the time we wrote this material, we didn't have this debate at all. Please, from then on, trying to understand and myself what we can have in front of us, I have been as open and flexible as possible and suggested on the background of what I was talking to Mr. Jukić about to extend our ability to work on the commission, to give an additional term for amendments, to try to find a solution that will not go towards the use of vital national interest. I, none of us today, can say whether the Croatian delegates' club will use that right or not. No one can say that today. No such statement can stop the Croatian delegates' club from using this if they consider it necessary. Gentlemen, please, just once again and again, I personally and the Bosniak delegates' Club are ready to work day and night, to achieve compliance by 30.09. I think this attitude is clear to the end. We want to finish this by September 30th, so that we can appear before the European Commission with an attitude, 40 package laws have been completed, please put us in your debate in October and make a proposal to set a term. It's our commitment, it's our political stance, our personal attitude and our personal will to do as long as it takes to reach that term. Not for a second, I repeat, by not wanting anyone and myself, to force me to accept something in the law that I don't think is right. So I think we just need to get organized and work hard to get these terms. Second, gentlemen, let's not play games. Those to whom we write this statement in the European Commission know to detail every difference between us, every one. Maybe sometimes better than us. Every word difference, every elaborate, every softening of this attitude, the uncertainty over this question is the message. So, one more message that isn't, which I'm not sure is good for. It's not just good. I repeat, people up there are doing a great reading. You know they're sitting here with us not at the House, sitting on committees, sitting individually, sitting with each of us, talking, arguing, they know that there are things that we have to swallow here, like we've swallowed and a hundred other things. I'm not for us to force each other, but we're only for one thing. Shall we try to do that? 78 In the end, let me be very clear. This is our will. No one's imposing this on us. If we fail, if we fail yet, so we have not yet done our will, we have failed to do it. And I have no doubt that today we agree that we want to do so, as I have no dilemma that I will conclude the law today with Mr. Ilija Vilipović. If I had that naive belief, I wouldn't be discussing it like this all day, and I don't even need to finish something that matters in half the day. So for that reason, I speak very precisely, if we're going to send a message, it has to be a message. If that's unclear, then it's not a message, then we haven't achieved what we need. Before we decide on this, I have to say. Dear Mrs. Nevenka Savić and Mr. Jadranko Tomić, Aljoša Čampara and a number of other technical service people, we spent hours and hours analyzing all the elements, including the procedure, the dates of the application, I did not mention today that until the last law everything from this list entered the parliamentary procedure and that, according to this mathematics, we can formally arrive. That still doesn't mean we're gonna make it. Doesn't mean we agreed on it, but we can formally arrive. So, our question now is to send a message of our will. If we don't meet will be all those involved in this witness work, but please, in the end, if we don't give ourselves a commitment and a clear term and a clear commitment, none of us will rush to do so. And others won't take us seriously. If, for some completely objective reasons, we do not respect it, it will be understandable. That's the only reason. So if anyone here thinks there's been an effort to do something that's not legal, which is not procedural and some kind of parallel system, I'm giving it up. All the repairs we talked about are necessary, so languages, styles, etc. I don't have any dilemma about it. And I said that for sure, if we had more time, that each of you would give an even better and better-quality proposal, but it's still a question here, I repeat, if we're going to repeat the message of our commitment to work on a program that was written here as a proposal for a program. So really a proposal for a program, to try to make this happen. In the end, there's another thing that we're all aware of, even if we promise, that we promise and do our part of the job, we're not alone. This statement is a statement from this House. If the other House doesn't do its part of the job, it's not done again, but I'll be very clear in the end. Our home has been objectively able to reach terms and deadlines, very good quality. Perhaps one of our messages like this and that of the other Dom would motivate them to design their own work program that would be synchronized as suggested in the conclusions, to try to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3328	There are no reports. Here's what I'd like to say again. I believe that in this form as well as the speech of fellow Neimarlija and in this form this Article 2, as Mr Filipović said, that the signal is clear enough, because no one will receive us on the basis of the message. In the end, we must end this in order to be admitted into the EU, in order to continue to move forward in the process. So here I think we should find some compromise solution and it seems to me that what Mr Filipović has suggested should be acceptable to everyone. I don't know, Mr. Čengić is waving his head, he doesn't think it's strong enough. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3329	Look, I'm sorry, but a word of hope, in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, is not a very promising message. A word of hope. Maybe this one, can you repeat your proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3330	That he would take all the necessary steps at the adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3331	That might be a lot better. First, can we agree that these stylish, linguistic repairs proposed by Mr. Neimarlija, except in Section 2, I repeat except in Section 2 that we accept, and that attitude 2 formulate as you suggested. And Section 2 to formulate as you suggested, therefore, that the Dom would do, as you have now said,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3332	That they will take all necessary adoption actions
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3333	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3334	Yeah, well, 22 laws, not 18 there, there's, uh, I've seen it in the falls, too, and I apologize to whoever made this, but that means we're gonna fix it, okay? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3335	So, if it's possible to do it right now as chairman and to refer to the media, you don't wait three days after, when there's no
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3336	To bring this, to make a conclusion and then to put in charge,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3337	A statement to send a statement to the media right away. We had a statement once, this one I don't know what it was about, now I can't remember, we took it very seriously and it was sent to the media or, it took some kind of printing, grooming, a three-day alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3338	I don't see any reason not to, but 80
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3339	If Ilija, Goran, please, if Ilija accepts this proposal, this Goran proposal and what Hasan suggested we go now, so well means she has consent whether, excellently,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3340	All right, here's four of us if you want to finish it tonight, well, yeah, clear. What, yeah, yeah. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It changes this House commits itself to the remaining laws, but the House will take all necessary adoption actions, precisely means only this, will take over all necessary adoption actions instead of binding. Well, let's vote on this, then. Let's get this over with. I don't think there's any doubt now. If we're going to read it, will you read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3342	This is the statement of fulfillment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's performance study obligations in order to launch Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations with the European Union. 1. The people's home welcomes the results achieved by the competent institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with regard to the implementation of the performance study obligations, and in particular the adoption of a package of 40 laws by the BiH Council of Ministers. 2. The people's home stresses the exceptional importance of this process for BiH, expressing full readiness to carry out its obligations in the programme. Dom's finding out, the obligations from this, okay, okay. The House notes that 22 laws have been passed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly so far and that the remaining 18 laws are in parliamentary procedure. The House will take all necessary actions for adoption, just a little while, all actions to adopt the remaining laws by the end of September 2004.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3343	According to the proposed dynamics until the end of septemgra, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3344	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3345	All right, all right, all
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3346	According to the proposed dynamics, okay. 81 3. Support shall be given to the Council of Ministers, entity governments and other competent authorities in respect of the implementation of the performance study obligation and, at the same time, of all requirements, to determine the dynamics of the activity by the end of September 2004, in order to meet the obligations and to meet the conditions for starting Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations. In view of the importance of implementing the obligations of the Implementation Study and the so-called financial resources provision, the House of Peoples calls on the Council of Ministers of BiH to make legally justified special decisions by 15 September 2004 at the latest to ensure and approve the financing of newly established BiH institutions foreseen by the Implementation Study. 4. Convinced that we express commitment, in conviction, well. In the belief that it expresses the commitment of all BiH institutions to the House of Peoples calls on the European Commission, to continue to provide extremely important support to this process in BiH, and that based on the results achieved, the proposal to start negotiations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3347	Okay, write it in Serbian, with a Cyrillic, I'll sign it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3348	Is it okay, I can give it to you right now,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-29-0.u3349	We respect the professor's observation. Wait, we're not voting on the text of the statement, are we? The conclusions should first be, We can vote on conclusions and statements together. Do you agree? This applies, to take the necessary steps to, well, I, here in the conclusions was, so that all laws would be adopted at the latest, that this would take all necessary actions at adoption, that's it. Can we vote? We are voting on the text of conclusions and statements. We're not going to propose a realisation program, there's no need, that's part of the information, that's good. All right, get ready to vote. So, I'm opening a vote. You can vote. 11 for, no one restrained, no one against. I find that we have adopted the conclusions and the text of the statement and the component of whether or not this program is. This conclusion by Mr. Vink... this, the conclusion of Mr. Radovanović. Here's the vote. I agree unanimously, so 11 for, no one against, no one abstention, that we've adopted a gentleman's conclusion, just a little fellow zrno we're not finished yet. 82 Here, we've exhausted the agenda. We have a huge job ahead of us in September. Really, this is ambitious to the pain but I believe we'll be able to carry out our duties. Get some rest, be ready at the end of the aufust so you can start working. Cheers. The session was completed at 7:20 p.m.
