ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2286	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, your Excellencys, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, esteemed representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all very much and thank you for attending this session. I'm opening this session. At this session, there are 13 delegates present at the 20th session. From the Bosniak people 5, from the Croatian people 3 and from the Serb people 5. They are not present and justifiably not present, Mr. Ilija Filipović and Mr. Branko Zrno. I'm asking you more, before we start an explanation. Regardless of whether the sound and this technique are tightly available, given that it is not completely complete, delegates have the opportunity to speak at once, or to go out for a pay phone. We will report in the same way we have done so far for discussions and we will vote in the same way we have voted so far. So by lifting these papers, the color charts. So it wouldn't be, because our joke and this all seems to be not fully arranged yet, fully technically ready to meet some other here's our ambition, or our criteria. For the 20th session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Records from the 18th and 19th meetings of the House of Peoples, 3rd. Establishing a Joint Security and Intelligence Commission to monitor the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency and select the members of the Commission, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99, 6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering pursuant to Article 99, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Officers pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 2 9. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99, 10. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 11. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure under Article 99, 12. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council under Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 13. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 14. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 99. Immigrants, 12 / 15 A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the Amendment Bill and the additions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law under Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, First Reading – Proposer Representative's House, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Proposal for a Decision on ratification of the Sixth Protocol with the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Strasbourg on 5 March 1996 – Proposer of the BiH Presidency. Okay. So this is the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda, and I'm asking if anyone is answering their calls? Do we agree on this agenda? Any objections to the agenda, any additions? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Who's for the proposed agenda? So unanimous. Thank you very much. So the first item of the agenda is Ad. 1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to the question asked was Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Is he satisfied with the answer to his question? Whatever you want, Boško. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I welcome all present. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer from the Council of Ministers to my asked delegate question and from six delegate questions, here's the first time I've received an answer and I thank the vijeće of Ministers. In response to the asked question – What has been done by the Council of Ministers to appoint as soon as possible the Director of the Office of Law to be of the order of the Serbian people in order to honour the national representation of all three constituent peoples in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was established by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 45th session held on 18.3.2004. The reply provided indicates that the Council of Ministers of 6th session held on 13.3.2003, when it concluded that the procedure for the appointment was to be initiated, including the Director of the Office for Legislatives, had not so far launched a procedure for the selection and appointment of directors. the Agency has not delivered a description of the tasks and conditions of that post to the State Service Agency in order to enable the Agency to open a competition for the position of Director of the Office of Legislatives. In addition, the national structure of state-run officials, the ministry's secretary is of eight jobs as secretaries and 1 secretary with special task in ministries is the current state: 6 seats are filled with Bosniaks and this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Fuad Šabeta, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Hamdo Tinnjak, the Ministry of Security Bakir Dautbašić, the Ministry of Justice Jusuf Halilagić, the Ministry of Civil Affairs Damir Dizdarević and the secretary with special task at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees Mustafa Alikadić. In two places they are filled with representatives of the Serbian people and up to: the Ministry of Finance and Treasury Biljana Đurović and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees Dragomir Kovač. One place is filled with a representative from the Croatian people and it is the Ministry of Communications and Transport Nikola Šego. In two of the three permanent bodies of the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for European Integration, the Secretariat General and the Office for Law, whose government officials have the status of secretary with a special task, have so far been appointed: Director of the Directorate for European Integration Osman Topčagić, Bošnjak, Secretary General Milan Čosić, Hrvat. It means that out of all 4 secretaries with a special task in brackets including a secretary with a special task of the Human Rights and Refugees 3 are filled with Bosniaks, and 1 place is filled with Croatians. A total of 12 secretaries and secretaries with a special task are: 8 are filled with Bosniaks, 2 are filled with Serbs, 2 are filled with Croats. 4 This completely undermines the principle of national representation of all three constitutive peoples in the leading jobs, so I propose that the next conclusion be reached to the House of Peoples – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to immediately, and no later than the next session of the House of Peoples, end the procedure of selecting the Directors of the Office of Law in accordance with the Law on State Service and the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and inform the House of People. So what I put in place last time, I just want it to be fixed in one segment, to be named this director, and here's the structure you saw and I suggest that, as part of my answer to this parliamentary, or delegative question, you make a statement about this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2288	Thank you very much. Okay. Here we put this proposal to Mr. Šiljegović's vote. Who's for that House of the People, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2289	Dear colleagues, the chairman, I think it would be good to plead on this matter, but within the framework of business norms, or points where possible. I don't think there is a conclusion in the context of the delegation issues and the answer to the delegates' questions. I therefore suggest that for the next session of similar conclusions or similar conclusions, a point is proposed and that this issue is fully addressed by national staff structures. I think, in order to achieve that effect that the promoter had, in particular, because through the agenda point, delegate questions and answers to delegate questions are not the usual practice of drawing conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2290	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I must and want Mr. Šiljegović, here I am now consulting whether it would be good not to violate one practice not to vote on delegate issues or on delegate issues, to ask the Council of Ministers a full report in the next point in the next assembly or at some point in the agenda, on the fill-up of staff balances on the national key, i.e. on the national principle, and in principle we are asking that this process be completed by the end of this mid-term. As for this national balance, I think that all of us are in a hurry, namely that all the delegates in this house want this constitutional law or that legal law in this BiH to be realised in the way that it is agreed and I think that this one would be pleased and that we could establish it from this stenogram, give and send a message to the Council of Ministers to end it. 5 If you are lying to Boško to make this happen then thank you, if you disagree, I do not know whether it is pleasant or whether this remark and this proposal by Mr Halid Genjac is unusual to vote on parliamentary matters. Thank you, Boško.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2291	Well, basically, I realized that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2292	That we all agree
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2293	that everyone shows the desire to resolve this and in this direction here I am withdrawing a statement on the conclusion that will enter, will be an integral part and a stenogram and this record, but I would like to make sure that the College of the House of Peoples commits itself to the next session of the House of Peoples when this point is placed on the agenda. And now I'm going to take the opportunity to share with my colleagues the answer that I got from the Council of Ministers and everything I've told here, it's contained, so maybe some of them haven't got, you got in that variant, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2294	Thank you very much, here's a consultation of the College. Do we agree that this is going on the agenda? Let me answer you right now. The college consulted and at the next session of the agenda we will look for, for the next session of the agenda, we will ask for a comprehensive report from the Council of Ministers and we will ask it to be filled out as soon as possible, so I suggested and said it would be by the end of this semester at the latest. Do we agree on an occasion like that? Thank you, Boško. Thank you, colleagues. So more answers than this one to Legislative questions, there wasn't. Now we're moving on to delegate questions. This is Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2295	The respected chairman, respected colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, funds of public information, dear guests, during the recent SFOR action at Palam on the night between 31.3. and 1 April of this year, there was a serious violation and endangerment of the lives of the civilian priests Jeremija Starovlah and his son Aleksandar, as well as damages, i.e. the desecration of the church building of a parish home, which caused the excessive use of force to mark this action as an inappropriate brutal attack. This way, Serbian delegates and I personally condemn the way in which the action was carried out and we expect the whole public to do so. For these reasons, in order to fully enlighten the mentioned event, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates and on my personal behalf to the Council of Ministers, I refer the following delegate questions: 6.1. Does the Council of Ministers consider that the abovementioned SFOR action has moved within the framework of its mandate? 2. Has the Council of Ministers made any reply to SFOR on the determination of all the circumstances of this event, especially when it comes to the responsibility of the actors of this inappropriate and brutal act, or will they be identified and sanctioned appropriately? 3. When will the Council of Ministers get to know the public with full truth about this event? Given the sensitivity of these issues, I request the Council of Ministers of Emergency and Detailed Answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2296	Thank you, Goran. Yes, Mr. Limov answered his word. Here you go, Tomo.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2297	Dear gentlemen of the presidency, fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished guests and representatives of public information funds. I welcome all of you together, and I want to use this opportunity to leave two questions to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the College of the Home People and the College of the House of Representatives. The questions are: - What is the fate, and where is it now named by the names of every 46 children of the protégé, Dom Ljubica Ivezić of Sarajevo, taken from the beginning of the 1992 war to Italy? - What are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina so far, and what they will do and when they will do to learn the truth about the said group of children, among whom 15 are still young today. I appreciate that there is no need to particularly explain things about these issues, because the public from the media these days we are all well aware of the situation and I expect that through the answers to these questions we will have one activity that will be led towards the defence of the rights of these children and their parents and their rights and if you want the rise of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2298	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Anto Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you present. I'm going to ask a representative question. The issue has been addressed to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina government. 7-1. Have they ever and any activities taken to determine the responsibilities of the Director of the Federal Ministry of Police of the Federal Ministry, and if they are not, and whether or not the relevant persons and bodies of the Federal MUP initiated the activities of sanctioning the unauthorized, outrageous and terrifying statements of the Director of the Federal Ministry of Police of the Federal Ministry – I will arrest Čović and the top of the HDZ, because all Herzegians were thieves, spoken according to the writing of domestic media on 11 March 2004 at the Police House in Sarajevo at a meeting with the Crime Service Chiefs where some representatives of the international community attended? 2. Is the scene a new way to sow fear and threats through elected and protected civil servants who can unpunishe outside their powers to announce the arrest of the collective head of state, the state security minister and that would also be the president of Croatia's strongest parliamentary party and its party summit. 3. On behalf of and on behalf of all bitter and startled, honest, hardworking people from all three peoples of the territory of Herzegovina, whom Mr Miletić in his statement publicly called all thieves, I demand a reply in writing from the relevant bodies, and I encourage and expect these questions in the prescribed procedure of determining the responsibility and replacement of Mr. Zlatko Miletić's duties as director of the Federal Ministry of Police, thus showing that we are legal rather than political state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2300	Thank you, Spajić. Is there anyone else here to say it? We have no more debates, no more parliamentary questions, and this item of the agenda is exhausted and we are moving on to another item of the agenda. It's Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes with the 18th and 19th sessions of the House of Peoples you have received. Any objections to the records? Thank you very much. So no objections. Who's in favor of adopting the minutes? Halid, we're voting, if you don't mind? So the record was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. The third item of the agenda is A.3. The establishment of a Joint Security Intelligence Commission to oversee the work of the Intelligence Security Agency and the selection of members of the House of Parliament's committee, this, please, House of Representatives has adopted, that is, six members of this committee from their home and our home should elect six members. So three times two on this committee, and I'm expecting the president's proposals. 8 let's take it in a row. Mr. Genjac. First of all, I'm sorry, first of all, let's make a decision. If we agree to elect a joint commission in front of this House to parliament to oversee this service. Who's for making a decision, for setting it up, is? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Now we're going to propose. Yeah. So from this House of Representatives, they've adopted, elected six members, our home should give six members. Here's Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. He answered his word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2301	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates and guests, in front of the Bosniak Club on the committee, I suggest the president of the club Dr. Halid Genjac and the chairman of our home, Mr. Mustaf Pamuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2302	Thank you very much. In front of the Croatian people, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2303	In front of the Croatian club, I propose to the gentleman, Mr. Velimir Jukić, so does Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2304	In front of a representative of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2305	I propose Mr. Vinko Radovanović and Mr. Nad Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2306	Thank you very much. So here are 6 members: Genjac, Pamuk, Jukić, Limov, Radovanović and Radović. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. The Joint Commission report was adopted at the House of Representatives. We don't need to. You have that report. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Fifth point Ad.5. The Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be adopted under Article 99. Rules of Procedure So we have a debate about whether or not we will adopt the law by an urgent procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law. Mr. Limov, are you answering your word? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2307	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow envoys, I would like to say something that will apply to all these points from 5th to 15th because today we have a set of 11 laws to which the Council of Ministers has proposed for 10, and in one case the Election Commission is proposing to us representatives, i.e. representatives, that we consider them by a hasty procedure. The colleague of our home has chosen to propose that we consider these laws per so-called. the reduced procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The Council of Ministers supported by its 2004 priority programme, which we at the joint session of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, predicted that even 6 of the said set of laws that are now on the agenda will be adopted by 31 March, so we are already late. Taking into account the fact that most of these laws were sent by the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure on 12 March, it is clear that, in accordance with Parliament's business deadlines, too little time was left. I would like to say openly here that responsibility for the delay in the process of considering the law until now is borne by the Council of Ministers. For example, from a set of laws relating to the fight against crime, whose adoption of the Council of Ministers by March 31st, 2 laws are not currently in parliamentary procedure. These are the Law on the Protection of Borders and the Law on the State Border Service. It is very indicative that MEPs are asked to shorten the procedure due to the breach of the Council of Ministers' 10 deadlines. This does not have a suspicious negative impact on the quality of overall work, so we built, in my opinion, unacceptable practice to make changes and amendments to the laws that have been passed every few months in a series of cases. Because no mechanism of responsibility has been built by the Council of Ministers, due to delays and the quality of law preparation and because I have the impression that the Council of Ministers is doing so on purpose, so that the Parliamentary Assembly is practically brought into a form of tea, especially when it comes to specific legal projects, I would like to make it clear that I will no longer vote in any case for a hasty or a shortened procedure. I do not want to accept that responsibility for the delay in reforms is at the House of Peoples. We envoys are also obliged to protect our business provisions on deadlines, so if you want to raise this house as the highest legislative body in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, in this case, there has been an unwarranted breach of deadlines, that with some legal projects, I am convinced that it is unjustly waiting, I do not want to accept responsibility for the delay of reforms as a member of this House, and therefore I will do so today and every time this situation is done in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2308	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here's the debate, Mr. Lim's discussion. Let's hear it for Mr. Halid Genjac. Let's hear it from Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2309	Dear colleagues, I will speak about the agenda points from 5th to 15th as already said. We have one series of laws for which emergency procedures are proposed, so the procedure in which time has been left and the competent committees to consider laws and delegates to submit amendments to the Parliament Assembly, or the House of Peoples, to adopt these laws and, of course, to discuss amendments in the second reading session of the House of Peoples itself and to adopt amendments. So, enough space has been left to preserve credibility, dignity and this home and every delegate separately, but deadlines have been shortened. Why the deadlines have been shortened and why we have been brought into a situation to consider these laws in a shortened procedure which, with the active participation of delegates, is not a handicap, so to point out, this should really be discussed. The fact is that many of the conditions in the 16th-point feasibility study package have been broken by deadlines in such a way that the laws are passed, but the laws do not live for reasons that even in certain institutions or competitions for the appointment of directors of those institutions that are established in accordance with the laws were not called, and the deadlines were already at the end of last or 11 previous month. Why is that, I don't think we can answer ad hoc here. and I think it will be necessary that at one of the next sessions, and probably at the first next session, under the urgent item of the agenda - an analysis of meeting the conditions of the physibilities of the study because it is evident that at certain points it is already seriously late. In order not to present an assessment of the subjective circumstances which are objective reasons, I think it should be kept from the evaluation when full information is obtained, and then to see why there is only one employee in certain ministries. The ministries therefore exist, and there is only one employee in the ministry, through the service, through the state agency. So there are cases like that. The Ministry with one employee. Why are the deadlines late? Why aren't the laws being prepared before? I think we need all the information we can talk about and make quality judgments. But, in order for the House of Nations to be the one to contribute, as it is so far, not to extend the deadlines, but to speed up, the Bosniak Club will plead for all these 10 laws to be adopted by an emergency procedure for why, we are aware of the need to adopt laws as soon as possible, we are aware of the importance of accessing the physibilities of studies and of our involvement in European integration, why there is no alternative, we are also aware that we can contribute to the acceleration of this process and we are also aware that through this accelerated process, both the Dom and the delegates are left to achieve their role in the re-capacity. For these reasons, I am speaking for all these 10 points that are ahead of us, the Bosniak Club will support that these laws are being considered by emergency procedure, because each of these laws has its enormous importance, right in the context of deadlines, not to mention amendments to the Electoral Law, where we are already on the verge of jeopardizing the terms and chronology of maintaining municipal elections. I must tell you that there is no Council of Ministers responsible, there is a joint committee of the Parliamentary Assembly appointed from this home, which has not finished its work in time. Not to mention a set of laws relating to direct, direct donor or credit funds from abroad without which it will be directed, i.e. questionable implementation and implementation of the budget, i.e. public expenditure in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels. So for all these reasons, the Bosniak Club in this House will support the adoption of these laws by a shortened procedure in order to contribute to the removal of the delays so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2310	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here's Goran Milojević. Here you go, Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2311	Dear colleagues, I'm kind of embarrassed to talk like this when I report as a delegate to speak from this place, so I'm going out here, and we're going to see how practice, how it's going to get settled in this new hall of ours. I am also deeply aware of what Tomislav Limov was talking about, and I support him, and I support what my dear colleague Genjac said. We simply, or 12 understand all these frustrations that we are burdened with. Indeed, as one political analyst on the side says, here comes the atrophy of domestic democratic potential precisely for these reasons why we are in construction, you have all kinds of work, in the end they are final works and all somehow break those deadlines and then when the facility is to be handed over to the investor to attack these molecules, I don't even know who are doing the final work, people hurry up, we have to, this, that. And then often there are certain mistakes and consequences, of course, the investor suffers. So, I've tied this a little bit to my profession. I think that's the way it is. I'm not going to owe this opportunity, I just want to say it's hard to say that I want to awaken someone's conscience. We're all aware of our responsibilities and I wouldn't just want our home to bear the burden of brakes to reform. So in that sense, we have to make our contribution, and we're going to give it to God, so we suggested this goes according to Article 99, so we have an opportunity to act in amendment. So we are not completely closed the door in this sense, so I think that otherwise the attitude of our home should be in the light of this story, that is, what our colleague Genjac was talking about, means breaking deadlines for this feasibility study that we need to approach the examination of these laws and that we need to adopt them here in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2312	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2313	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, guests, I will not speak of any special law related to the procedure means from point 5 to 15, but I will look back at one failure, or I will correct Mr. Lim's false allegations. Namely, it does not appear that the College has decreed that we are pleading on these laws by a reduced procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the College only proposed that these points enter the agenda in accordance with Article 99, the proposer may then request that the draft law be followed by a shortened procedure, and we will, after the debate, determine whether a certain law which has been requested to go in the shortened procedure will be made known on a shortened or possibly on a regular procedure. However, I did not report this, but I read the reasons of the Council of Ministers for determining the shortened procedure of passing these laws and did not find sufficient quality arguments, at least not for the majority that it is necessary to go according to a reduced procedure. Of course, I believe that it is our obligation as an agent to make a contribution that these laws and those of all others who need to be adopted are not adopted, to be adopted and adopted with certain improvements and to be quality. Also to honor the deadlines. But I'm also estimating myself, joining the grades that we're not the ones slowing down the passing of these laws. I would be really happy if we were to introduce in our practice, actually introduce in the practice of our work that most laws, if not all of them, but at least most of us bring in regular procedures, with very clearly specified deadlines that there are 13 times on the laws to be prepared qualityly, to say, all interested and then, I'm sure, we'll have better and better quality laws. In our case, what is stated in the Rules of Procedure as an exception, the exception becomes a rule. That's not good. And I think we should prefer it means that the laws are still adopted in the regular procedure. On the deadlines of some here today, the law that has been proposed to declare the procedure is the question whether or not the shortened procedure ensures that the deadlines are set. But when we get to certain laws, we'll talk about it by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2314	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Limov answered. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2315	This can be treated as a reply to the replica, because I appreciate that in part of Mr. Jukić there was actually a replica of what I said. So the bill promoter proposed an emergency procedure. The college has two options, as referred to in Article 99 or Article 100, for this 99. And that's what I said. So you could go on Article 100. You guys went for this one, and I didn't even comment on it. It's your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2316	Generally for the speaker and this occasion, I will speak and present some of the experiences I have heard and have participated in the debate at the March session of the Central European Initiative, which was in Ljubljana, and this last session of the President of the European Parliaments of South-Eastern Europe, which was in Sarajevo, here is a recent meal and through discussions of those members, those countries on the Central European Initiative that are being prepared and which have achieved such results that they will now be members of the EU on 1 May. They, there's Slovenia, there's Hungary, there's these countries, these 10 that come in. I have to say that there was a discussion that also that the talks that these countries had a terrible rate of adoption of some laws that were sometimes not the best, but were later upgraded. They simply hurried to enter and to achieve the conditions for entering these European integrations. Along with the countries that were there, there were some members of Austria and Italy that were already in the EU. So there were those who now enter the EU in May and were those who were due to join the Union in 2007. Among them is Croatia. I have to say that they made one, one terrible dril at the adoption of these laws, and they hurried to adopt them as much as possible to qualify for negotiations on, to join the EU. Macedonia has done wonders with its laws and its speed, and now it has been submitted to the EU for negotiation. I must say one thing that our dissent, first let them disagree that we have national I will say disagreements, so that in the Council of Ministers and the institutions that regulate these laws, I must say quite hard to agree, painfully and there, with one terrible pressure from the international community, they come to a common solution, i.e. to a consensus, 14 and only then can they come to Parliament. If we are in Parliament too, it will take us 150 years to enter European integration. I am asking you and I will be able to think for a while, and it will not be a proposal right now, but I am seriously considering proposing to the Assembly, to propose to this House, and even to the entire Assembly, to hurry up and to adopt all laws that are related and important for the entry into Euro-Atlantic integration by an urgent procedure. I say that our Rules of Procedure have been made, which we now have at the moment when delegates and MPs in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina were not all MPs, they were not all, excuse me, professionals, so at some point they refused or could not, or were not able to work on the laws and work intensively, I would like to remind that MPs in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in one and another home I think so all professionals. So we need to do a little bit more work, and we need to try to reach what our goal is, namely what we all said we would. I would ask my colleagues, indeed, in these deadlines, let's think about this dynamic in this direction, towards joining Euro-Atlantic integration. We can be very often and dissatisfied with some solutions in some law. I'm sure with a lot of these laws that we've passed each by the person has certain questions, some dissatisfaction, but that's the consensus, that's the deal, that's what on our occasion is very important. So everyone needs to have their ambitions, some of their desires, some of their high goals brought down to normal, down to a level that others will be able to accept, and get to the bottom of it. If we don't do it, no matter what, no matter how we do it, we'll still be far behind. If we stay far behind the others, I fear where Bosnia will be and where we will all be and where our families will be, where our youth will be. That's what I wanted to ask you to think about these deadlines a little bit differently. We all have time and we can get a little better and a little more active everyone per person gets involved in these processes. Thank you. Mr. Spasojević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2317	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, fellow journalists, dear guests. I am one of the delegates, or MPs who has always been in favour of respecting the Rules of Procedure, and I think that I am one of the most reticent ones because many of the laws that have come under emergency procedure. All these colleagues who came out to talk, I really understand them, and I understand both the need and the time to, at this point, have to, to say some who drive cars, put a little bit more into the speed and that maybe we're faster to master the path that's ahead of us. So this time even though it's a rule that according to our rules of procedure that all the laws go into regular procedure, except for, meaning some that are urgent, one or two Council of Ministers can take, such two at one session, I will today break my rule because there is enough room for us to bring in this short procedure the appropriate amendments of ours that 15 will improve these laws and I would just not agree with Mr Pamuk in the conclusion that we are professionals almost all and that we should do, if everything is by emergency procedure, especially according to the most urgent then we will have nothing to do. We will constructively have to do what we do in the vote, but we will have nothing to do in a constructive way, so we will not be able to build our concrete proposals into that law, so to cut short, today I will go beyond my will, because I have always abstained from these urgent procedures, especially because there are laws here that are urgent, which are the Law of Elections, Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law. I think it should be today, and I will do so today and I will vote in favour of a shortened procedure in the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2318	Thank you. Here you go, buddy. Excuse me. One moment. Any of them have, like, a little co-worker. Is there anything else from the MPs to say to a member of the Council of Ministers? Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2319	Honorable chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, I can't help but say one of my own, one thought, one conclusion that we find ourselves with in one time that is before us, in which we all really know that we have to squeeze the gas to the board to get to the deadlines. And I also know that the political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina signed the agreement together with a consensus that they will participate in this and that they will not make difficulties on the road to meet the conditions for what should happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina in July in Istanbul. That's why I'm a little surprised by today's statement by certain colleagues that although we have the opportunity to act amendmentally in a shortened procedure to plead against. That is why I would really appeal, because, according to my assessment, this people's home has now really worked constructively from the first day until today and we have no misunderstanding and I would not like to, I would not want anyone to call the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to start now in April or May to stop meeting the conditions for a partnership for peace, or for the next steps that come after that. I'm sorry, I also understand Mr. Spasojević, who was often restrained by what he said earlier, that's true, but I understand him and that today he says that he accepts the possibility that we can, as Mr. Goran, Genjac said, that we can act in amendment to these laws and if the deadline is squeezed, but we can act and I appeal to my colleagues that we really accept it so that someone doesn't call us tomorrow. It doesn't mean that we won't be able to change each of these laws a little bit and squeezed, but I urge everyone to do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2320	Thank you, Mr. Brki. I have to. I owe you an apology. I made a lapus. I was talking about an emergency procedure, but I was thinking of article 99, and I apologize to you 16. Here I am correcting myself, and I meant in this procedure by Article 99, which is it. Thank you very much. Mr. Spajić answered his word first.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2321	Mr. President, here I am going to try one perhaps compromise solution to be found here. I agree with Mr. limov. Surely our creativity and mistakes must be taken away from us in some way. Whether it's the Council of Ministers or not, I don't know who else to know. I don't think we should explain here why laws need to be passed quickly and that it's clear to all of us here, but the same thing should be clear to the others involved in this process that they too need to get serious and react and respect time. I would not say here that in the set, or set, we say that we can bring, I would go from point to point of the agenda what can be done regularly, and what is urgent to go by a shortened procedure. So, Mr. President, I suggest we go from point to point of order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2322	I'll, uh, ISpajić, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, That's what I thought. Anyway, we're going from point to point, but come on, but this discussion that's going on like this, I think, in principle, for all of these, a global one discussion, a broader discussion of the principle when it comes to all laws, and it's quite clear that we're going to declare each law individually and there's no dilemma. Mr. Limov answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2323	Here I apologize for taking my word again, but in order not to be understated, I am one of those who has always voted for all the laws so far. I'm one of the ones who's willing to act the way you suggested, so let's make it the princess we're agreeing on. Of course, I said this today for a reason to start those responsible for the deadlines so far, and these are the legislators. So as serious as we are ready to carry out our duties, we ask and expect both of them and what I am asking as an envoy is to say when and why I cannot agree, not that the High Representative is telling us. Let them pass, and let them say that they couldn't agree that we were passing laws like we passed the Security Intelligence Act at the last session. So I am in principle to meet the deadlines that are and rightly because of the dignity of the House I have warned of the obligation to build up the responsibilities of those who propose the law. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2324	Thank you. I don't know if it'll be polite to comment on what Mr. Limov said on the subject. I think that both the Council of Ministers and all relevant, all relevant factors that participate in the creation of laws and the assembly that participates in their adoption must work more actively and more quickly on this and this should come out as the position of this home to ask the Council of Ministers for one, as a faster and more quality work. I would now like to say to my colleagues that in the sessions of the European Parliaments on which I participate, such as the Central European Initiative, such as these European Forums, many of the actors of Euro-Atlantic integration in each country, is Parliament, or Assembly. She wonders and her decisions are made. The Council of Ministers is someone who also does it and who has a very, very important role in it, but in fact it is all being adopted in these parliaments, at these sessions, and we need to know that we are responsible for our reforms and we need to know that we cannot be amnested if we fail to achieve the objectives, or if we fail to enter Euro-Atlantic integration. It is the government, or the Council of Ministers, that delivers the materials to us, and we adopt them or do not adopt them. So we can't amnesty. The responsibilities of all those who think that because of this, we will be able to pass on responsibility to the Council of Ministers, at least when it comes to European institutions, are very wrong. That is why we have an obligation to ask for a little and to put some pressure on the Council of Ministers to do it faster what should be done at least in these urgent procedures, at least in this programme of these 16 reforms to finish as soon as possible. Thank you. I'm sorry, I've been commenting, and maybe it wasn't right. But here comes Mr. Mektić Dragan, Deputy Minister of Security. Here you go, Dragan.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2325	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished delegates, since the Ministry of Security is in some way also proposing a number of these laws that are in your agenda today, which is this set of six laws that practically provide and reform police forces and structures at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would just like to say a few words to you. Perhaps I should also answer some of these questions that are raised here in some way, as well as with how many problems and difficulties come to this bill, and when it comes to this particular issue, this set of six of these laws, or four laws, plus these two laws on amendments and amendments to the law, I would like to say that this is one of the 16 conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina should meet under these accession negotiations. So it's one of 16 of these conditions. 18 After this issue or this area has entered into those 16 priorities, we are immediately ahead of the ministry in agreement with the EU that monitors and assesses the practical fulfilment of these conditions have entered into the development of an action plan to fight organised crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After we adopted this plan, a special or, say, working group was formed immediately, a slightly larger working group that started making all these laws. This task force worked really intensely. There was an opportunity when she met two and three times a week and there were no major problems in the work of this group. But since it is about new laws and a new way of regulating certain police powers and implementing police powers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there have been different opinions and we have asked for the best solutions. After this set of these six laws was established, he had no major problems either on the Council of Ministers itself, except for the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering when it was partially disputed that a regular procedure had not been passed and he did not find himself on the Committee on Economic Policy, so he was later, meaning first these five, later this sixth law on the prevention of money laundering and was sent together in the package to parliamentary procedure. Here I just want to tell you really that we understand the importance and seriousness of this ambassador, that we worked very hard to make these six laws, and it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, at the end of this reform of these laws in the area of police, it's practically the first half of this year, so it's not the deadline of 31.3. But, I mean, here's the thing, for the sake of understanding, just to tell you that it's a pretty complex law. The law on the protection of the border is going to build the Schengen rules into that law. We don't have much experience here. We have to ask and consult and see what procedure the past country is now entering the EU, the countries that are in search of this area as we are and that both the State Border Service Act and the Law on the Protection of the Borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina would actually install all, all the norms and all the Schengen rules so that after the adoption of this law we could practically act according to the Schengen rules and thus cut some deadlines. Here it is, I really pray that this is a very important and important set of these laws when, I see that you will plead by, one law at a time, that this set of police laws is indeed one of these 16 priorities and the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to start accession talks. You probably know the information, I just want to repeat that the House of Representatives has adopted this shortened procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2326	Thank you very much. Mr Halilović, Minister at the Council of Ministers for Civil Affairs. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2327	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. I would also like to appeal to the law, i.e. a proposal on a framework law on higher education, to go according to the proposed procedure. You know a lot about the circumstances of the establishment of this bill, and in order to illustrate the urgency, I will only quote to you a letter from the World Bank sent to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Namely, the letter reads his Excellency Adnan Terzić, prime minister of the Council of Ministers, Sarajevo, on March 23rd 2004. Your Excellency, a loan for structural adjustment of EMCAK's economic governance, a restructuring project for ERP education. Among other things, the text said - we were extremely pleased with the information from today that the Council of Ministers has passed the Framework Law on Higher Education to the State Parliament. Congratulations to you and your colleagues. We expect urgent adoption of the law in the Assembly, which is, as you know, of the greatest importance for the World Bank's overall programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please be aware that on 7 May 2004, the deadline for the adoption of an acceptable Higher Education Code is to allow the loan for structural adjustment of economic governance to be worth $30 million and a $12 million education restructuring project to be delivered to our board before the end of our fiscal year, which is June 2004. Signed by Dirk Rajneman, head of BiH's office. I think from this letter enough facts you have about losing significant resources if we don't catch up with this timing that we've been assigned and that should be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2328	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. I'm begging you next. Let's go now we've heard these discussions, these thoughts about whether and now we're going from law to law, or from agenda point to point, and we're voting for what we are to go for 99. why we're not. Do we agree on that? So we agree. Let's go, normal. So there were five points of the agenda, Ad.5. The request of the Council to consider the draft labour law and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. If we don't discuss it further, I'm just going to ask who's for this law to go by article, adopt by article 99. The rules of procedure of our home? 20 Who's in? - 12 for whom is he restrained? - 1 against? There's no one here. Thank you very much. So the request went through. Ad.6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering pursuant to Article 99. I'll also put the Rules of Procedure to the vote. Who's in favour of this law being passed by Article 99? Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? - 1 Who's against it? There's no one here. Thank you very much. Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Bill on the State Agency for Research and Protection, that we go according to Article 99 of the Parliamentary Procedure Who Is For? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Ad.8. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers, so that it goes into procedure under Rule 99 of our Rules of Procedure who is in favour? Restraint? Thank you very much. So 12 for, 1 abstention, no one against. Ad.9. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on witness protection programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina, also a procedure under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Restraint? - One Porotiv? - There's no one. Thank you very much. Ad.10. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service and to the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? - 12 Thank you very much. Who's so cocky? - 1 Thank you very much. Against? There's no one here. 21 Ad.11. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure under Article 99. Who's in? Restraint? - 1 against? There's no one here. Ad.12. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? - 12 abstentions? - 1 Ad.13. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the draft law on litigation before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, same Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Who's restrained? So 12:1. Thank you very much. Ad.14. The Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, procedure Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? - 10 Who's abstentioned? - 1 Who's against it? – 2 The law is therefore adopted to follow the procedure of Article 99. Ad.15. A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the Amendment Bill and the additions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2329	I'm not sure we fit the deadlines this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2330	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2331	I am not sure we fit the deadlines set by the Election Act and this way, and I think it would be good if we wanted to, and I think the elections should be called on April 15th to reach a conclusion and to further cut deadlines, because Article 22 of our 99th Rules of Procedure is said again, which are the deadlines. And these deadlines aren't enough to fit the deadlines. And so I suggest, here I am, and the secretary here has a little talk about these deadlines to reach a conclusion and to cut these deadlines short on those deadlines that will fit into the deadline for the elections to be said at the beginning, and I don't even know the first week of October this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2332	Thank you very much. I was a little bit of an inert about this. I'd like to ask Mrs. Lidija to explain a little bit to us about this dilemma that my colleague Jukić put out and see what's best to do if this is all going well.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2333	Mr. Chairman, respected envoys, the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina has indeed made every effort to prepare through the working group a proposal to amend and supplement the electoral law and to set up this parliamentary group on its initiative. Unfortunately, we're in the situation we are. On April 15th, the date of publication of the municipal elections and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission delivered the bill as a proposing, as the working group did not work fully and as MPs from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples did not show a high degree of responsibility under the law. What I can responsibly say is that elections can also be held under the provisions of the existing law. So much for the Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2334	Like what?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2335	The vote remains to be held on October 2nd, the first Saturday. What we've tried to do through amendments and additions to the Electoral Law is to improve certain solutions. It means that certain deadlines that are now in the Law and the experiences that we have had at the general elections have shown that they have to change. However, what are two fundamental changes, proposed by the working group, is the representation of national minorities in units of local self-government, which is an obligation stemming from the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, both at the end of both international conventions and other fundamental changes, is the abolition of forbidden political advertising to political parties, i.e. allowing paid political advertising and a number of other solutions that represent improving the text. 23 I do not know what procedure is of business, if there is a possibility of cutting some deadlines, we are calling for these amendments to be adopted by the date of the elections, i.e. means April 15th, and if the law and date of publication pass, it is not April 15th but April 16th. So we appeal to have as much democracy as possible and to improve the existing solutions of the Electoral Law to adopt this law, but I do repeat my responsibility on the holders, even to the representatives and this home since the working group has joined irresponsiblely. Individuals from the task force approached irresponsiblely. We were warning of these deadlines and we were supposed to be in this situation. After all, we, as the Election Commission, are indeed in a very awkward situation, because we are announcing elections with the adoption of amendments and additions just before the election date and as is the case in the Federation, it is well known, I must point out that there is still no known way of selecting the Commissioner. So we as an institution are in one situation that we do not have democratic frameworks in advance, that we do not have pre-created legal frameworks, or legal frameworks, but in any case again we urge these changes to be adopted to announce the election days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2336	Thank you, Lidija. Here, while we discussed this, my colleague Jukić and the secretary of the house tried to discuss a little bit of something and think about the deadlines to make sure that this law, this law, will bring us within satisfactory deadlines so that we don't mind making choices, here we are, I suggest that Mr. Jadranko, Secretary of the House make about one dynamic, one, suggest one dynamic, one term, a plan for this adoption, about the adoption of this law. So we generally accept that he's going for 99, right, but we're proposing, but here's to make another one of us improve this dynamic so it's done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2337	On the basis of Article 131. Rules of Procedure of the House, the House may reach a conclusion on specific issues which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, so that these deadlines can possibly be even shorter. Now, about the proposal that today's session would be the Constitutional and Legal Committee from the aspect of constitutionality, that the committee in ustavno-pravni could again, in fact, be 13.4. if it had a session as a committee of power and until that date to submit the amendments, that the House session would be planned no later than 15th in the course of Article 89 and that, with the conclusion, the short deadlines for the renewal of any amendment or submission of amendments that are being refuted by the existing amendments, so that the session could be 15.4., and this all, that perhaps the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the competent committees of the homes would work in coordination, I mean our home and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2338	Thank you very much. Here's what 24 would do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2339	They did... they were cutting deadlines, but since they had before us a session, they'll probably have, I guess a session of 15, so they could do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2340	Thank you very much. Here I'm kind of thinking that we're going to adopt this with an additional explanation to say that we're going to use Article 131 is to conclude and make some improvement, to make someone new, let's say we're going to have a faster time to finish it. If we put it in fourth, this would be fourth. Who's in? No one's against it? The abstention doesn't have anyone? So 13, excuse me 12 for, unanimously for. We're done. If it's about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2341	Here's what Mrs. Korač said, it's evident that up to us, it's not always until the Council of Ministers. So let it be a warning to speed it up. I, of course, voted yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2342	Thank you, Mr. Limov. There's really one understanding, it's true, there's little of ours, there's some mixed mistakes, but here's what we're going to try to eliminate it. Now it's point 16 A.16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers Has anyone related to the Anthem? This is the first reading. Is there anything the Commission can say here? Is anyone picking up? Thank you, so this is what the House of Representatives adopted. Who's up for us to adopt this in our first reading? Hasane, brkati. Radović, did you vote? Limov, I didn't see it. Unanimity. Thank you very much. I have the right not to see. Please. Since this was adopted in the House of Representatives and in the second reading, and there were no amendments, I ask my colleagues to vote to adopt the Law in the second reading, to discuss the Law and to adopt it in the second reading. Is anyone picking up? Niko. 25 Who is it for us to adopt this law in another reading? Unanimously, thank you very much. Ad.17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers Have there been any amendments here? It's the same procedure as the last one. Who is it for us to adopt the Law in our first reading? Hasane. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Also, the same case at the House of Representatives was fully adopted. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the text of the Law? There isn't. Who's in favor of adopting the law as proposed? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Ad.18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – the Council of Ministers proposed no amendments. Our commission, we had one amendment, our commission adopted one amendment and anyone come forward for debate? No, I don't. Who's in favor of adopting this law with our adopted, first-reading law? Thank you very much. Unanimity. So let's go, same procedure. Who is it for us to adopt the Law in another reading? Who's in? Thank you very much. So we should now choose the Commission, given that the House of Representatives adopted the Law without amendments, we have passed the Law with amendments, so in the amended text. I'd like the presidents of the MPs' clubs to propose members to the committee. The Bosniak people he proposes at the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2343	Mr. Pamuk Mustaf.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2344	Thank you very much. Croatian people? 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2345	Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2346	Thank you very much. Serbian people?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2347	Mr. Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2348	Thank you very much. So Pamuk, Filipović, Radović. The composition of the commission. Who's in? Halide, you can't even suggest and be against it. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Ad.19. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on BiH's Law on Defence, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers First reading. We want to adopt another reading. Please, nice. Ours, so we had, is our commission, or we had six amendments to this law, and who's for us to adopt this law in our first reading? Unanimity. Thank you very much. So let's continue in the second reading. I'm telling you, the House of Representatives adopted this. We had, we have six amendments. It means here, and they're 5. So there was a good difference in the text. I suggest, who's in favor of adopting this law the way we are, in a second reading? I'll put Mr. Spajić on the phone, remember? Thank you very much. Unanimity. So let's form a committee to bring the text of the law into line. She can't do the same, 'cause she can't 'cause, hello. She can't do the same because I'm going on a trip and I'm not going to be here. I can, I won't be long then. Seriously, seriously, Halide. This can go fast, but I won't be able to do this. I can't. Sure, but be careful. Yeah, but I'm not running because of what he's got to do, but I'm really not going to be there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2349	We believe the chairman will organize his time. So Mr. Pamuk. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2350	Let's see the Hrvat?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2351	Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2352	Srbin?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2353	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2354	So it remains as the commission of Pamuk, Filipović and Nada Radović. Who's in? Thank you very much. You're very kind and generous. Unanimity. No one's against it. You can't be against it. Not by chance. I wrote you in. I sure am. The 20th item of the agenda is Ad.20. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the BiH government's institutions, first reading, proposed by the House of Representatives of the Amendment. Is there a discussion? Who's in favor of adopting this in our first reading? Thank you very much. Hope I haven't seen you. Hope, you didn't vote. Thank you very much. So unanimous. Yes, since the predstavnički of Representatives adopted this and in the second reading, I suggest that we also adopt this law in a second reading. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. There's no amendment. Dear colleagues, I thank you. What's up? Where's that? Yeah. Point 21, this isn't here. Please point 21 of the agenda Ad.21. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision on ratification of the 6th Protocol with the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Strasbourg, 5 March 1996, proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I call on Mr Čengić. Do you have what? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2355	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-04-06-0.u2356	Constitutional law. I, since this is what our presidency has proposed, and we are all for our presidency who is and for this ratification? I'll hook it up, so I can't see, Limov. Thank you. No, no, I can see that, but they did that to me. Thank you very much. So thank you very much. Gentlemen, I must tell you, here's for this urgency, it's possible that the session could be somewhere on the 14th, 15th, 16. So be this way to get it into your programs and see that we finish this quality and fast. I get you very much, I thank you. Thank you for your cooperation, thank you for your understanding. Thank you for your cooperation, and I have to tell you, after this session, that we are a real home. Thank you very much.
