ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13830	I'm opening the 40th session we agreed on at an extended college session. So I'm opening the 40th session of the BiH Assembly House of Representatives. You've got ladies and gentlemen, agenda. Is there a need to discuss it? Once again, I remind you that the Extended College has adopted this agenda and that today we are only discussing the procedure, accepting the procedure and giving consent to ratification of important agreements for BiH. Who wants to, Dr. Živković?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13831	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I know we're all tired and I'm the same, and I'd love to go home, but this really doesn't make sense that we're starting a session and we're turning the agenda around without any of the promoters around. I know it's a matter of procedure, but please allow me, at least we should have deputies or any of the Council of Ministers here, to explain to me for certain points of the agenda, why we're looking by procedure. Here's to be specific, so I don't show up specifically for the red cross agenda, to tell me, the Red Cross Society Act, which is the basis for procedure 104 here? I'm not asking you to answer that, but I'm asking anyone here who's in charge of this, whether we as parliamentarians want to get down to that level, that neither the Presidency nor the Council of Ministers nor their deputies, nor anyone here will talk to us about it. I, let me not participate in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13832	Thank you very much. I think we can accept this assessment Mr. Živković gave, but we decided this morning to do this article 104. The Rules of Procedure don't lose in the sense that we're waiting another 15 days, so that we can plead to the procedure, so that we can plead today. Uh, so I think we're doing one useful thing today. Through procedure 104, we will also have an opportunity to discuss the reasons why this, the content of the law, and to influence them. And, uh, I mean, it's real, we don't deny that possibility. Here, please, so if there's anything else on the agenda, here's someone, tell Mr. Križanović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13833	Mr. Chairman, I believe that I was the one in the Expansive College who accepted that we're doing this the way you've explained it, but I don't think it's amnesty for the promoter to be in the session when these issues are being resolved. It's one thing that we want to speed up, get time, and the other thing is, it's still the proposal's obligation, and I'm going back to the fifth point that we've adopted if that's the case today... because we can't carry out our conclusions, that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13834	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13835	So, like this, I support this going on anyway, if nothing for practical reasons. First, there will be a debate on the Constitutional Commission because it implies a constitutional basis, it will be at least ten days before we come to the Commission in a position to discuss this, this. Then he has 15 days, 15 days at the time of a fact-finding hearing on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13836	Mr. Ćeman, we've established this on an extended college that's authorized to determine the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13837	..the reasons to accept today stand, and as for the presence of others, okay, I accept these remarks but they didn't know when we'd start.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13838	Please don't always refer to other institutions. We have decided on an extended college that today we will do this job out of Parliament's responsibility. Any suggestions to supplement the agenda? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13839	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. and Živković and Križanović have made it perfectly clear and I stand behind it. But today we're at an extended college agreeing on the importance of these points of the agenda, about getting on time and at the same time in the left-over procedure we can only improve, from that, so I just got up to say, that I want to keep the word I gave at the Expanded College and to really end this effectively, without the need for discussion. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13840	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković, then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13841	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I will report once again for reasons why I understand the importance of passing reform laws and support all the speed BiH needs to pass economic laws. But I'd like to go ahead with either the proposer or the College or anyone who's in charge here to explain to me on behalf of the promoter why the point is number 2 per article 104. Rules of Procedure, it's not reform law. It is a law on which BiH as a society joined the Red Cross in 2001, the International Red Cross. Well, for four years, that organization has worked with nothing. It's not a set of reform laws. What we're putting this point under a) sub b for. Can anyone explain that to me? And here's what I'm proposing, when I'm up, that we take that agenda item off number two, and I'm asking you to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13842	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Try it now, press it. Please try again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13843	...with an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104, and then point 3 and point 5 are written in accordance with not a member but an article 104, so instead of writing in accordance with the article, it is probably in accordance with the article, I insist that I also receive the agenda in Croatian.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13844	...that was the deal, but the criticism is absolutely in place. Anybody else want to do the agenda? We have a proposal from Mr. Živković that point 2 of the Council of Ministers' request to consider the Bill on the BiH Red Cross Society's proposal goes according to the article, goes to the regular procedure. Please, this is a business meeting point, we can plead procedure. If it doesn't pass, it goes into regular procedure. No, but we are declaring whether point 2 will go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13845	Yeah, but they asked for a change of agenda, not a change of procedure, and to remove the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13846	It can't be downloaded because it's a mandatory item of the agenda. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13847	Mr. Živković, I told you. It is filled with business and is therefore put on the agenda. Well, look, we've adopted the agenda. There's no voting on the agenda. I can only vote on Mr. Živković's proposal if we reshape him. Here, I think that's what this is about. Thank you very much, we're moving on to the realization of the agenda, and when we're on this point, then we'll set ourselves up on demand. So point one, Ad.1. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH pursuant to Article 104. Anybody want to discuss it? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to plead on this request. Vote now. With 24 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, Dom accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents in BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Thank you very much. Moving to point two is that, Ad2. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Red Cross-Crying Society under the procedure of Article 104. If there's any need, we've already had a hearing here. Please let us be clear about this request. Vote now. So this proposal has a general, not an entity majority. So, Nikola, do we have consent or do we not?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13849	So I'm saying, that's where the Rules of Procedure say we can make a deal within three days, we'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-25-0.u13850	Well, a member of the College isn't in line now. It's in business time. 5 We move on, please I will respect the Rules of Procedure and do not comment differently both him and Mr Špirić, it is a business provision and. Thank you very much. Moving to point three, that's Ad.3. Council of Ministers' request to consider Proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers for BiH under procedure 104. Is there a need for a debate? I ask the House of Representatives to plead on this request from the Council of Ministers. Glamour. With 23 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers of BiH be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to point four, that's Add.4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the Protection of New Plant Varieties of BiH also by procedure of Article 104. Does anyone want to discuss this? Thank you very much. I ask the House of Representatives to plead on this request from the Council of Ministers. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour, with no votes against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, the House of Representatives accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to point five, that's Ad.5. The Council of Ministers' request for the draft law on fitness pharmaceuticals for BiH also to be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Anybody want to discuss it? Thank you very much. I ask the House to declare this request to the Council of Ministers. Glamour. With 22 votes in favour of, 2 against, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the draft law on fitt pharmaceuticals be adopted by BiH, under procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. And we still have Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants of BiH to be considered under the procedure of Article 104. Anyone else want to discuss it? Thank you very much. 6 I ask the House to declare this request to the Council of Ministers. Vote now. With 24 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority, we accepted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruitous Materials of Agricultural Plants of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to point seven, that's the final point of today's 40th session, Ad.7. Giving consent to ratification suggests to the House that we give the package consent to this. možemoliti we take it? Anyone mind? There isn't. I ask the House to declare its agreement on the certification under a) the Agreement relating to the preparation and operation of air traffic services and the use of euro-control devices at the Central Europe Air Traffic Control Centre, b) the Agreement between the Republic of Moldova and BiH on the avoidance of double taxation and tax evasion in relation to income and capital taxes and under c) the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Bulgaria and under d) the European Convention on Transboundary Television with the Protocol amending the European Convention on Transboundary Television. Please state by voting now. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously without votes against, abstentions, has given consent to ratification of those agreements. I thank the MPs and conclude the work of the 40th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 6:30.
