ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1773	Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome you all to the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 12 delegates present at the 17th session. Of which 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Mr. Goran Milojević, Halid Genjac and Hilmno Neimarlija are justly absent. Namely, they have informed us of the absence of this congregation. However, regardless of these absences of the Assembly, this session has a quorum and we can therefore make full decisions, make all decisions. For the 17th session, I suggest the next 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 16th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the conclusion of an agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on the Freedom of Faith and the Legal Position of the Church and the Religious Communities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the conclusion of an agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act, 5. Request for consideration of the Act amending the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the House of Representatives, 6. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 7. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 2 8. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 9. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH – Proposer Representative House, First Reading, 11. Proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading, 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- Proposed by the Council of Ministers, First Reading, 15. Proposal for a law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading, 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH – Proposer Representative's House, First Reading, 17. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers to ordinary and passenger buses – Interbus Treaty – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 18. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on trade and economic co-operation – BiH Presidency Proposer, 19. Giving consent to ratification Proposal for a Decision on the ratification of the Tampere Convention on the provision of telecommunications resources for disaster mitigation and rescue and assistance operations – Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 20. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period 17 June - 27 November 2003. This is a draft agenda and is there any suggestions for supplementing and modifying the agenda? Did Spajić get a call? Here you go. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1775	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you here and I have a proposal to expand the agenda with one point. Since the requested information by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet been provided to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Croatian Representatives' Club on the basis of Article 4.2 of the Rules of Procedure is requesting that 3 – Information from the Council of Ministers on the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1776	Thank you very much. We heard the request of the Croatian MPs' club, the representatives. Do we have any further? First, we should vote on the proposal of Croatian MPs, MPs, to include the item in the agenda as Mr Spajić said. So looking for reports or reports from the Council of Ministers on the arrest of this, these three gentlemen, Jelavić, Prce and this Rupčić. Who, is there any further objections? I'm putting a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Unanimity. This proposal has been unanimously accepted and the proposal, given how much I am informed that the minister is at some meetings, and that he needs to be given one decent time to come to this session, I will suggest that this agenda point be placed as the 21st item of the agenda. Who's up for this proposal? Unanimity. Thank you very much. I put it on the agenda as I read it complemented by the President of the Croatian Representatives' Club. Who's on the agenda like this? Unanimity. Thank you very much. So we can continue the session now. We have the first point of Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions How much I have been informed so far are two answers, Mrs Tomislav Limov and Branko Zrn, so I ask them if they are satisfied with the answer and if they have any objections to these answers. Mr. Limov, come in. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1777	Dear Mr. President and Vice-Presidents, distinguished fellow envoys, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together and I would like first of all to say that I am satisfied with the essence of the answer, with the fact that I would like to see the actions that have been referred to in response to my question done so that we are ready to welcome the talks that are taking place yesterday and today between the representatives of BiH and Euro-poly, in the sense of first and foremost the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. However, this activity is evident in the coming period. I would also like those who answer questions to pay attention to the focus of the issue itself, so answer, because in the second part of my question there was anything to be done, which of the subjects where I referred to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, and that the activity would be carried out in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1778	Thank you very much. Is Mr. Branko Zrno gonna answer his word? Here you go, Branko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1779	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am at the very least, as it says here, what is possible or in the Games of the Council of this Council of Ministers, satisfied with the answer. However, the essence here was either the whole point of the question of how much this budget loses with this relationship to import cigarettes, we are mentioned a figure somewhere from 80 to 100 million marks. I've been told that these data can be sought at the Federal Ministry, which is the assessment of the Federal Ministry of Finance on what it is, and how suspicious it is here. The rest of this remains an explanation or response for the so-called decisions on the measure of protection of domestic production, etc. And that certainly includes tobacco. It's mostly unsettled. We all know what's going on with the decisions, but few of us know what's done specifically with the protection of everything that's domestic, and so do these cigarettes. Most of the time, that would be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1780	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. We can tell you that you're mostly satisfied with this MP's answer. Thank you very much. Is anyone answering, since there are no more answers, now are there any delegate questions? Mr. Limov. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1781	I'm going to ask Mr. President a very simple question, which I appreciate should not be given a broader explanation. The question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads, is the BiH Council of Ministers able to reach a consensus on the text of the Law on BiH State Holidays, and if so, when will this law be sent to parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1782	Thank you very much. The Shiljegs called. Šiljegovi you go, Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1783	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I hand over the delegation issue in writing, I would like to read the following, out of the 8 working places of the ministry's secretary, 5 seats are filled with Bošnjak, and this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Fuad Šabeta, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Hamdo Tinjak, the Ministry of Security Bakir Daudbašić, the Ministry of Justice Jusuf Halilagić and the Ministry of Civil Affairs Damir Dizdarević. One place is filled with representatives of the Croatian people, the Ministry of Communications and Transport and two seats of the ministry's secretaries are filled with representatives of the Serb people, which are the Ministry of Finance and Treasury Biljana Đurić and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees Dragomir Kovač. The Council of Ministers has three permanent bodies established by the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the "Official Messenger of BiH No. 30/03" and the Directorate for European Integration, Director Osman Topčagić Bošnjak, Secretary General Ivan Čosić Hrvat. The delegation issue is what the Council of Ministers has done to make it possible, as soon as possible and in accordance with the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Law on State Service, to appoint the Head of the Office for Law to be of the order of the Serbian people, and thus create conditions for starting with the work of the Office for Law as a permanent body of the Council of Ministers. This team before the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH came into force more than a year ago, more specifically 3 December 2002 and all deadlines set by this law regarding the appointment of a director of the Office for Law have long expired. Thank you very much. To cut this short from 11 of these secretaries 7 are Bošnjak, 2 are Srbin and 2 Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1784	Thank you very much. Radovanović. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1785	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on this issue today, I was moved by the 12th item of the agenda of today's session. Namely, the Law on Use and Protection of the BiH Name came into force last October. However, we are witnessing a frequent violation of this law. Organizations, institutions, institutions of the Federation of BiH are often represented as organisations, institutions, institutions of BiH, so the Association of BiH surgeons, the Association of BiH surgeons, the Congress of Ororinolaryaringologist of the Federation of BiH is the Congress of Otorinolaringologists, and I am interested in whether the Council of Ministers, or whether the Council of Ministers, or the Resord Ministry, is doing something about this? The specific issue concerns a document that is in favour of this issue, namely the head of this document is the state coat of arms, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the State Commission for the Search for Missing Persons, and the seal stands, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Justice and General Administration, the State Commission for the Search for Missing Persons. The question is: did the Council of Ministers also form a State Commission for the Search for Missing Persons, and does BiH have a Ministry of Justice and General Administration? If it isn't, and if it isn't, I'm interested in what the Resord Ministry will do about it, since this is a false representation, and it's as far as we know. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1786	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Here's Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1787	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I refer the question to the Council of Ministers, which refers to the CRA, i.e. the RAC, Regulatory Agency for Communications. The question is: What is the national structure and composition of the staff in this institution, the total and also the management staff? According to my information that may be a few months old, there were 77 employees. Of which 14 Srbin, 4 Hrvat and this to 77 are Bošnjak and others. I think this is unbalanced and this needs to be corrected. I'm still asking the question of how this agency works. He's known to have very high powers. The way it is financed and particularly interesting is rewarding employees in this agency, again according to unverified information. And I ask the question, how much has this agency's income been for the past year, 2003, and how has these funds been spent and how many salaries have been employed by this agency? 7 According to my available data, income is very important and measured in millions of marks and is only slightly smaller than the budget or budget of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think this is very interesting and also, when I'm talking about this agency, I ask the Council of Ministers, is the law that regulated the establishment and work of this agency, so the Communication Act is of sufficient quality and does the Council of Ministers intend to make certain amendments and additions to this law adopted by the High Representative on a provisional basis? I believe that certain solutions under this law should and should be corrected and harmonised by some of the solutions of this law, otherwise with one legal practice in this country. It is also foreseen in this law that certain solutions that exist with a certain deadline, which expires this year, and I think that we should already work now to bring these solutions in line, existing solutions in line with this law, and that we are already considering perhaps different solutions. So this is one set of questions to the Council of Ministers. I would ask professional services to have my brief speech here, to introduce him to the Council of Ministers, because here there are 5-6 issues, which I want the Council of Ministers to seriously consider and give one quality answer. I think this is a very interesting question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1788	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Jukić should formulate a series of these questions or that they, this stenogram thing, is recorded and directed to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. Any more delegate questions? So we've exhausted this item of the agenda, and we could go to the second point of the agenda, that's Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Peoples Any objections to the record? So no Niko's answering for a word. I'm putting the minutes of the 16th session of the people's home. Who's up for the record? So in unanimity with that, 11 but it's unanimous. 8 We move to the third item of the agenda, Add.3. Declaration by the People's House on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on reaching an agreement on the same text Proposal for a Law on the Freedom of Faith and Legal Position of the Church and the Religious Communities of BiH We have the Commission, we have representatives, here's Radović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1789	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House, held in its session held on 20.01.2004, reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Freedom of Faith and the Legal Position of Churches and Religious Communities in BiH, accepting a total of 16 amendments that became an integral part of the above-mentioned text of the law. The Joint Commission proposes to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to accept these amendments in the form of a report as a proposal for a Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH. The Commission is sufficient, you have all 16 amendments where the text of the law has been unanimously agreed, so I propose to this House that this text of the 16 terms be adopted and that the proposal for a law on freedom of faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1790	This is the Commission's report. I am obliged to point out that the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report and thus whether, we have received definitely the law. Are there any debaters? Thank you very much. I put the agreed text of this proposal in line with the joint proposal, the Joint Commission on the Law of Faith. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The House of Peoples report on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the achievement of an agreement on the same text of the Committee's proposal for amendments and amendments to the Election Act I would like to ask the Commission, please welcome the President. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1791	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted this law at the 20th session of 13/10 2003 without amendments. At the 14th session of 28.11.2003, at the home of the people, we adopted this law with four amendments. At a session on 20.01.2004, the Joint Commission reached an agreement on an identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act of BiH, accepting a total of 4 amendments that have become an integral part of the text. So the Commission passed our law that we passed, or the law with our 4 amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1792	Thank you very much. You've reached the Joint Commission's report. If we have, we have an objection, please. I don't think there's any discussion about this, because we're sorry about this, please. Here's me, since there's been a discussion, since it's been adopted, what's been adopted is this Joint Commission and it's just her right to
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1793	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I only have one question since this is about me personally, and I don't know what amendment I'm in, and I don't know what that three-day deadline is. When he starts running, I'd like him to sort of explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1794	Thank you very much. I think, please, I think that from the day of the entry into force of the law, it is the publication in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So since then, three days. I think that's how we generally run ours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1795	Please, the deadline begins from the date of notification of candidates from the Election Commission. So by way of an election law, the Election Commission is entitled to receive the right to inform the candidate and from the day of notification it runs for three days. I think that's it, I'm not a lawyer, but I think that's it. _________(?) 10 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1796	Thank you very much. I hope, please, I hope that the commission, the secretary of the commission, or the administration of this home, can I, that the secretary of the commission and the administration of this home in communication, in communication with the electoral commission will give the right, or bring the right solution, the right answer to your question. Let's get out, and make your notice timely. Thank you very much. Here I am putting to the vote the Joint Commission report. Who's in? Thank you very much. Unanimity. The fifth item of the agenda Ad.5. Request for consideration of the Act amending the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the House of Representatives, so let's discuss here, do we agree that this law is passed by article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Yeah, are there any debaters? There isn't. Who's in favor of passing this law by article 100? It's not unanimous, we have a man who's basically against decisions like this. 11 and 1 is against, abstention, pardon. Thank you. The sixth point, I'm sorry, I hope, we're not done. So here we adopted this, now we're putting this item on the agenda for consideration. Is anyone answering for the discussion? I'm opening a debate. ________(?) Is there a Council of Ministers to explain? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1797	It's not the Council of Ministers, it's the House of Representatives who propose this law. The House of Representatives has been informed that there will be a session today and that their law will be discussed. But there's no one here. We have informed them in time that there will be a session of the House and of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1798	Who's due to come, who's been informed? 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1799	House of Representatives, they're proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1800	I mean, in principle,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1801	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1802	Look out, we got one, one situation here. We've got to go now, a little deaf situation. The House of Representatives discussed this, adopted, and suggested that we discuss it. We basically had one position that we had about laws that we don't have someone to refer to us for not discussing. Is this a situation, or are we going to make an exception in this case, but we have to say. It's not a adoption procedure. We've adopted the procedure. To argue. This is the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1803	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1804	Please, I've put in a little bit of an understanding, I've put it to a vote, do we agree to adopt this by article 100, and we voted that. So after that, we get into a situation. Can I? After that, we get into a situation where we discuss the law. Is anyone answering for the discussion? Niko one's answering. I'm putting the law to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. The law was passed unanimously. 7th point, sixth point Ad.6. Report to the People's House on a request for a discussion of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, is proposing to the Council of Ministers whether any of them have proposed. Here you go. I'm sorry, he's got a commission, I'm sorry, little lapus. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1805	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has had this amendment law and the additions of the Law on the Defence twice on the agenda. Once on a constitutional legal basis and it was found that there was a constitutional legal basis and secondly considered as a competent commission. As competent to consider the proposal of this law, it unanimously adopted the principles of this law, but it sent the 6 amendments adopted to the House, which became an integral part of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, to most votes. So we have assessed that certain formulas that we have proposed to delete in the bill's proposal in the existing law are better and not necessarily changing them. At the same time, by erasing certain proposals, by proposing erasing, by accepting these amendments, we have maintained the prescribed responsibility of the Advocates and his deputies towards the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We suggest that this House accept the report on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1806	Thank you very much. I must point out that here we are talking about the procedure, this is not a waste, it is not a surplus to know the Commission's position, that means that the Commission has worked, that it has agreed, that it has its position. However, we are talking about the procedure now, and this part Mr Filipović was talking about will be whether it is at one of the next sessions and then we will discuss it. Please. So, please, we'll appreciate that, but it won't be too much to learn again. Thank you very much. Zoran Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1807	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, as far as I understand it, I think I understand well, we are only here to declare the procedure, and after that, we get a brief procedure to submit amendments, and only after the amendments have been made are the Commission to sit down and then to decide on our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1808	Thank you very much. I remember just saying that. I'm thinking one minute or half minutes before you answer the word. Thank you very much. Here you go, sir. Okay, I'll take it. 13 There's Radovanović. Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1809	I'm sorry, but I'd like to make one thing clear. I don't understand why the law is in the procedure, and we're only now pleading to the procedure. Can the law come to the committee before we enter the procedure. That's what I'm interested in, because it's my opinion that we first need to make a statement about the procedure and I think there were faster sables here than horses, so it's already the law on the commission, and we're just now pleading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1810	Great. I think, please nice, I just think the commission is seriously working, working fast and I think they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1811	I think we can get here in an ugly situation, because the deadlines have been running since the commission started, and we're pleading now that these deadlines have been cut in half and maybe our deadlines have already passed for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1812	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to keep it clear like this. We've adopted this law under Article 99. Great, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1813	The Secretary of the Commission needs to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1814	Allow me. Then they'll adopt, and then we'll make amendments, if we adopt it, then the official commission will come out. So I said one more time to us, to repeat this and to understand it better. Who is it for this law to be adopted by a shortened procedure to be considered by a shortened procedure? Excuse me. Thank you very much. So we unanimously passed the law to consider the law by emergency procedure, by a brief procedure, and whether it is all going to the normal procedure, that it will now go to the amendment, that the commission will once again meet and that the Commission will once again submit the report after the amendment, submit a report to this House. Thank you very much. A little disagreement, a little confusion. 14 I suggest we move to point 7. Ad.7. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, are now going to vote on it if we accept that this report, that we are considering the law in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House Who's For? Thank you very much, so unanimously. And then we move on. Point 8. Ad.8. Report to the People's House on a request to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, also the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, I pray that we make this clear, on the procedure. In fact, do we accept that the law is being considered by a shortened procedure? Who's in? Thank you very much. And this is unanimous. Point nine of the agenda, Add.9. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, I put it to the vote that the law is being considered by a shortened procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. It's unanimous again. The tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the House of Representatives, first reading This is the first reading of the law. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. First, there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is founded. 15 I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? No one's answering. Here's who. Who is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1815	I think it would be a good idea for us to be here today, obviously we're not in the mood, but I'm going to open up a few questions here. I think the proposed changes and supplements aren't enough. I think it might be today, so this would be a chance for us to get involved and expand these changes and supplement and then get a really better law. A law that will fit our needs and our real state, not a law that will only be partially improved. So I'm here right now, and I'm calling all of us together, so the House is going to be involved in this job, and we're going to use this opportunity to fix this law to the extent that it really does respond to its needs. In particular, I think that certain solutions that regulate one part and issues about the structure and way of functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly, especially its professional services, the secretary and the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1816	Anybody else get a word in? He's right, man. So you had a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1817	Let me tell you, the House may request that the commission draw up a new report based on new facts within 15 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1818	I mean, you shouldn't force this. I saw a little bit later why you didn't need it. I don't think we're going to force this, because we're just now familiar with one answer we got. I mean, here's the thing. There's a little bit of a misunderstanding here. We receive answers and requests from some services of the international community that quote our notaries who are not even adopted, so we'll discuss it a little bit. Yeah, yeah. Where does that come from, who does it, and why does it? I think we need to see it a little bit, too. Listen, Osman, it's coming through when it comes through.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1819	16 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1820	Check when it's coming through. We get some letters and some requests from the international community about the need for adoption as a House, about the need to adopt some views and quote discussions and from committees before the minutes of the Commission and the commission were adopted, you know, so we have some insinuations that we have some combinations that are not clean. I suggest that this, this law, once again, we all discuss it together, right, like Jukić, and only once we adopt it. So I think we can talk about the law in the first reading and we can adopt this. Here you go, Vedrane.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1821	Let me tell you, the commission is and as a competent constitutional and legal committee, it's done business under this law. So there's literally no more amendments to this law. However, the House may call on Article 90(3) and ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new facts within 15 days. Only on the basis of the conclusion to be reached and to be asked by the commission, is the College to offer these facts. That's all. Or to go on, now I can't suggest, to adopt this law, but to make new changes and complements at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1822	We're not gonna do that, 'cause we're watching some things. We mix institutions, mix concepts, mix everything and try to explain it all as one single solution. I think that we need to discuss this here and that in the House we need to break up, that we need to know that services in the House of Peoples, services in homes in Parliament are completely different from services in the Council of Ministers, that the tasks of individual sectors, individual places are completely different and that they must be observed differently. So, I think, here's what Jadranko said to stay in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure that our conclusion is to ask the competent commission to draw up new reports based on the exact facts within 15 days. That's my suggestion. __________ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] The law will deliver it, I think this law, the new facts, has to be. Yes, it is. 17 ________/? So say it in the microphone. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1825	The esteemed presidency, distinguished colleagues, esteemed present, I am appalled by Mr. Pamuk's stated fact with what he just said. I think that this House, that this Parliament is working very transparently and very responsiblely, that there are really responsible people sitting here and that all our views are very publicly presented and all the conclusions very publicly isolated, each available, to all the officials who need them are safely available and I am amazed by the fact that despite such work of homes, there are some moles that, before official positions, bring things out of these organs. I just can't accept it. I can't understand that's happening. That is why I propose that we must take really energetic measures to see how this can be done in the largest legislative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think anyone can and we can if we go over it very simply then we'd all be very irresponsible here. I'm not going to be an irresponsible man and I'm asking Dom to make a statement about what we've heard and to take certain measures against, it can be, it can be proven who it is, what it is, and I just don't think that it's a place for people like that to work in these organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1827	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, this is here now that I have before me a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Service of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Articles 1, 2 and 3. I don't know if all the MPs have it, but it's pretty clear to me here. This is the first reading, and where it means the commission phase ended there was no amendment. I can't put another amendment on this part unless we want to violate the Rules of Procedure. So we have to do this in this form in the first reading and in the second one, and if we want some subsequent amendments to this law and supplementation, then we have the opportunity to do this to each of the MPs, and the House that sent this to us. 18 There's no reason for us here now to invent hot water, that it's important to make other changes, so only those amendments that haven't passed. But there were no amendments here. I can defend myself in front of the House. There have been no amendments here, this bill of amendments should go like this and be adopted like this, and the rest of it later, if we have any objections that we are going to make the same changes and bring them to this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1828	Thank you very much. Here I am close to this. Please, I'm near this to suggest that we accept what Mr. Spasojević said and please, and Spasojević if you don't find it difficult to do yet, that I wouldn't paraphrasise you to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1829	So we accept this in this form. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] If we have any objections, we can...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1830	Here you go, Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1831	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community and others present, bearing in mind everything said about this point, it seems to me that any of the good solutions, respecting the fact that it is bad to make a decision on the first reading, and then to go with the amendments, is my suggestion that we do not accept this text, so that today we do not decide on the first reading, but to decide on the conclusion that Mr. Pamuk has proposed that we give a 15-day deadline to the commission to show about the new facts, to possibly come out with the amendments, if necessary, if it should be assessed that there is a need and then to go with the first reading. So instead of going with the law, instead of going with the law and then doing the amendments afterwards, we'd rather be late for the 15-day process, but we'd like to put these facts on the table, or we'd like to make amendments if we thought they were necessary to avoid these and similar situations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1832	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1833	But I'd rather do that than go twice with two suggestions. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1834	Dear colleagues, I want to say my opinion on this. So there's no dilemma for me here. I don't know why we're going to any kind of acrobatics right now. We have a law ahead of us, a final commission phase, and we need to make a statement about it. If there are enough elements to initiate the procedure for other changes, no one is slow. There's a way to figure out what the procedure is. So let's get this over with, so we don't fall into a trap to break our own Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1835	Okay. Thank you very much. So who is it to adopt this law in our first reading? Who's in? - 9 for whom is he restrained? Who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? - So we passed the law in the first reading. Okay. We suggest that we do a second reading and pass the law, that is, discuss the law and the second reading. Here you go. I'm putting the law under discussion. Let's decide if we're going to go to another reading. Who's in favour of continuing the discussion in the second reading? Who's in? - 9 for who's against it? - 1 Who's abstentioned? - 2 Thank you very much. So we're going to the debate in the second reading. Is anyone picking up? Here, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1836	I'm going to express my regret that we're doing this for real. I don't think we're working, I'd say we're not flexible. We are referring to how we should strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. Also our Rules of Procedure is so perfect, or not perfect, good or bad, as he wants it to be called, but it allows us to decide at any moment how we're going to work. We also had the opportunity to make a better solution, and a better solution was what the chairman proposed, or I, either either the president, to postpone this by 15 days and to give us the opportunity to give the College of One and the other home, because I am a member of 20 Colleges and the Chairman of Mr Pamuk and we have certain problems or concerns, or inconclusiveness, or inaccuracies in the Law on State Service, and it concerns our organisation, the organisation of professional services and appointments of certain and I think it was an opportunity to resolve it, to solve it in the context of this now when we have already done the changes and complements. And not again, I don't know how many days we're gonna have to re-change and supplement the same law. It's not that, but I think it was more rational to act in the proposed way. What Mr Pamuk has hinted a little bit and commented I would not even comment, I would just say that we are really committed as a College and College of One and the other home to do some things and jobs, that it would be good if we had already done this more intensively these 15 days that were proposed and that then we were going with new maybe improved solutions that would allow for really quality work, that is to say, quality enforcement of these laws, envisaged jobs and the execution of deadlines that we set ourselves at the last joint session of months of seeming to me or a few months to do whatever it takes to appoint and make new decisions in the internal structure, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1837	Mr. Jukić will thank you very much. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1838	Of course, we can interpret the procedure and interpret what is more logical and better for us in various ways. I'm on the side of Mr. Jukić's position, and I felt that we should have taken this opportunity to react immediately, and since we had all the elements both procedural and others. However, since that is not the case, I have the following proposal, that is, I suggest, that after a statement on this law in the second reading, and I assume that the law will pass, to reach the conclusion that Mr Pamuk has already proposed was, in connection with the first reading, with the addition or amendment only at the end. Therefore, to the House of Peoples, to provide the College of the House of Nations with information and knowledge that it has, and which it can ensure, that the Commission declares and that the Commission assesses whether it is necessary to initiate activities in terms of any further investigation or in terms of amendments and additions to this law. If necessary, therefore, if changes to the law are necessary, then the Commission shall be ordered to prepare the amendments or amendments within 15 days and to put them in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1839	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Filipović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1840	I feel the need to say 2-3 words. We were in a regular procedure at the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as competent to discuss the law adopted at the House of Representatives. We have discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service on Articles 1, 2 and 3 adopted at the House of Representatives. With respect to all that we have heard and what the College has concluded, which is what Honorable colleague Pamuk and distinguished colleague Jukić now said here, it stands, but stands in some new initiative to change and supplement after we accept what the House of Representatives has adopted. Because watch out, applying Article 90 seems to me, 91st is the one talking about some new facts, we return to the Constitutional and Legal Commission law adopted at the House of Representatives, there are no new facts in relation to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law that we have received from the House of Representatives as a Proposer and as such adopted at that home. So that would be a waste of time. We would simply return the report exactly the same as it is before you now. It's a business thing. All of this, therefore, by respecting the need, was therefore to react a little earlier that the Constitutional and Legal Commission had views, and would then also bring about changes in relation to these new facts that we are talking about and which are not well enough to hear, and not that they should be quickly repaired by the Law on State Service and calculated with all those who do not respect the lices that bind them. We simply need to appreciate that returning this to the Constitutional and Legal Commission would mean a re-exact report in front of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1841	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. The facts that are being learned today couldn't be brought out yesterday. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1842	Not according to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1843	That's exactly what I'm But we respect this one, and everything's fine. Here we go that way. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1844	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my opinion that we are now in the process of adopting this law in one stage where there is no going back and not discussing things that are impossible, my opinion is that we have already adopted this law in the second reading. 22 Now we can bring him down, or we can adopt him, and there are no conclusions for the subsequent commission after this law. Let us pass this law, because we have come to this point and there is no return, and every MP has the right to launch a re-amendment and re-addition initiative, and that is the only business correct. So we're in the stage when there's no going back. Now we can adopt or refuse this law. I mean, it's not there. And we can't, I'm sorry, we can't adopt, it's my opinion that we can't adopt this conclusion of Mr. Čengić returning to the commission, because once we adopt this law, the proposer can be, yes. But now there's no going back to this stage. I mean, that's it. It means we pass this law and then there's a new procedure so we don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1845	As it is, this law was passed long ago, and this is a bill of amendments and additions. He can and has the right of every MP to restart the amendments and the amendments to the law, and most likely, here I will propose to our college to seek some clarifications in this law that are not clear, and here I think we can go this way, we have crystallized things, we have explained things, and it is good to go into the process of adopting these amendments and additions, and it is good that we can start the procedure of re-change and complementing them in one normal period of time. Right, so the changes and the additions we'll run in agreement and we'll see what we do. Is there more debate? Any more questions? Is there any more discussion? Do we agree to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in a second reading? Who's in? Thank you very much, so unanimously. Excuse me. Who's against? Who's restrained? - 2 Hasane. Mr. Čengić. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1846	So dear colleagues, I'd like just one second of attention. I know as well as you all know that each of us has to initiate amendments and additions to the law or the whole law entirely proposes. But it's one thing to do it, and the other thing to do is do what I suggest. Respecting my colleagues and your colleagues, members of the College of this House, who have provided us with information that I didn't know anything about, and apparently none of us seem to know about, and respecting that it's one serious state of things that needs to be checked and found facts, I don't think that after we've been informed we can act as if it's an individual thing, but we should react to 23 as Home, and for that reason I have suggested that conclusion that is very simple, very clear. So, that the House owes the Commission to the Constitutional and Legal Commission that on the basis of the information provided by the College of the House, it shall examine this information and decide whether it is necessary. One, take certain measures of punishment, rigorosis, or I don't know, but however you want for potential breachers of order, or official secrecy, and the other, more importantly, that the Commission decides whether amendments to the existing law should be made and that these amendments are proposed by the Commission within 15 days to launch an initiative for change, is for the amendments to this law. So we have the law of this hour. I repeat my reason is very simple, so that we are no longer going individually like this, or that MP, but given that as a House we are familiar with these facts to show enough interest and responsibility to do so. I don't know what reality is, but I want to hear the Commission's position and I want the Commission to present to us what it will come to. That's why I suggest you make your point on this proposal for a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1847	Thank you very much. Who's in favor of accepting Hassan's conclusion? It's a good conclusion. You don't have to understand everything. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Now it's 11 points. Ad.11. Proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, first reading This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. First, there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law in its first reading. The amendment was gone, the new amendments were gone, and here I am opening the debate. Does he have a proposal? Here you go, sir. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1848	Dear gentlemen, MPs, in front of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I can only tell you the reasons and the way the law was made. So already adopted in the legislation of exports and imports of arms of military equipment placed in the jurisdiction of state authorities or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and therefore in defence reform, the decision of the High Representative has ordered that the law on the production and arms of military equipment be taken to make the commission by 31. 5. In 2003, with basic principles that should ensure control of the production of weapons at national level, establish a procedure for issuing authorisation for the production of weapons, establish a central register at country level and provide a state-level inspection regime. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry formed a commission consisting of entity defence ministries, entity industries, the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Secretariat of the Permanent Military Committee, as well as representatives of the international community, i.e. the OHR and the OSCE. The Commission did its job on time. However, there are two misunderstandings, i.e. in due time, whether there will be permanent supervision at the defence ministry or the entity industry ministry, and inspection state oversight at the Ministry of Security or the Ministry of Foreign Trade. And it was waiting somewhere until September, when defence reforms said that this entire production programme of the dedicated industry was going into civilian inspection and therefore this uncertainty was resolved and now the law lies before you. So the permanent supervision is carried out by the entity industry ministries and based on inspection data or at least once a year is located in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. It will be located in the same department that runs the registration and issue of export licences and imports of arms and military equipment. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1849	Thank you very much. We heard a representative of the motion. Mr. Zrna, is it on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1850	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the occasional and security structures at BiH level should have really changed something. It is so large in the title that the following, I am obliged to inform you that at the second session of the Joint Commission 5.1.2004, the proposal of the Law on the Production of Arms of Military Equipment and we are submitting this proposal to the House of Peoples has already been submitted to Parliament's House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following a general discussion on all the details, the Joint Commission adopted the following. 25 Under 1. Unanimously supported principles, 2. She concluded that the two amendments were submitted to the draft law by MP Momčilo Novaković. The Joint Commission then unanimously adopted the next amendment that became an integral part of the text. The clarification, one amendment was rejected, the other was adopted. The amendment which has become an integral part of the text of the law reads: - Article 2 of Article 5 is amended and reads as follows - the legal basis set out in Article 4(1) is the duty to keep records of the consumption of “B” material, the consumption of products and semi-products, the production plans of NGOs, the deliveries and other exceptions which have been to control the production of ENV-ko. A finished member. And below 3. The unanimity committee has adopted the text of the Bill on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment with the Amending Amendment, and I propose to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples the adoption of this law. So much from the joint commission, noting that this law, if my own constitutional and legal committee of the House of Representatives has passed 15.12. and the House of Nations 10.12 and that both committees have established the validity of the constitutional legal basis for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1851	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrna, for the systematic explanation and presentation of the commission's position. Here we heard the position of our commission. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1852	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I am pleased to have the opportunity today to discuss this law in his, as far as I know first reading. We've seen that mostly there are no amendments and since there's a debate here on principles, I'm going to try a little bit on principles, a little bit more on concrete solutions. So, I think that the principles on which the law is based are in order, except for one that is still speculative to me, respecting all the facts that the Defence Reform Commission has already been working on, that the Defence Reform Commission has taken certain views, etc. However, everything is open to further discussion, so I think it is questionable whether it is correct that all the responsibilities related to the production of NGOs have been briefly stated that this law is used and approved by the manufacturer, so authorisation to manufacturers etc. Is it okay to put everything exclusively in the power of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and 26 economic relations. For a very simple reason-- the production of NGOs is actually one parallel production. It's one whole world, one whole life. All we have in some way in civil society is in the military, except for some things and a lot of what we have in the military are slightly different standards. From the means of communication, from this, from that, etc. And as much as we think it's all the same, it's still a little different. It is still a bit specific, and it seems to me that it is not quite logical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no knowledge, nor is it equipped with experts to decide on all aspects of production, military equipment. It's nothing new. I know very well about modern solutions both in America and in Europe that a number of industries that have so far been considered military turned into civilians, and within these industries only military programmes have been retained when it comes to means of communication and a lot of other things. However, I still believe that there is a lot of what is specific, very specific to the military industry why they are looking for high knowledge, expertise, expertise, etc. And in the future, I don't think a solution like this can be maintained at all. It seems logical to me that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations gives consent to export, monitors these contracts, etc., but gives consent to the manufacturer based on several documents based on several papers and then controls on which the Ministry of Foreign Trade generally knows nothing at a time when we have already decided to form the Ministry of Defence at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time when the army will be formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so at a time when military issues of development, arms and research of new funds, strategy tactics, etc. discuss within the Ministry of Defence or at the level of the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that the defence ministry will cover the entire state. The solution that has so far been given that the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations had one technical justification that was very important at the time when this law was being prepared, there was still no law on defence, defence and military law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it was necessary to bridge some other solution to cover the entire state. Today when we have, I am convinced that part of these powers should be assigned and transferred to the Ministry of Defense. Since we obviously cannot discuss this now, not only because there are no amendments, not only because it is the first reading, but because this issue is obviously one to say more politics or access to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am convinced that this topic will be open and justified and professionally precisely by forming the Ministry of Defence, after this procedure begins and after it is brought to life. I'd have a technical question here. I'm not a lawyer, so maybe the answer exists in the law, but I can't read it, and it's the following -- it's supposed that existing companies or legal entities dealing with the production of NGOs should apply for registration within 30 days, after the law has been passed and how much I understand essentially they file exactly the same documents as they do, and some new legal entities that would just start working. 27 My question is, What shall be the matter with those who already do so, who produce it by the hour until they have received a decision, so that they will not be reregistered, or eventually rejected? Can she work till then? The old law does not apply when this one comes, and this provision is not regulated to me even in transitional provisions, although I am not a lawyer, it seems to me that it is usually regulated in transitional provisions and should be regulated, so it would be important to make that clear. Given that we are the legislator and the first legislator of the law, I believe that it would be good if we can't change the law to give an interpretation that those legal persons who at this time have consent and are registered for this activity can carry out this activity until they get a new positive registration, or until they are denied or refused to continue, for a new registration. Because, look, of course there are contracts, there are deadlines, there are obligations, etc. This procedure is probably opening up some new 45 days, maybe 60, and it wouldn't be a good idea to create an empty space where these companies are in an unclear situation. That would be my opinion of principles. And now for solutions. First we have a solution in relation to registration, or refusal to register, i.e. by suspending registration to someone who has already received registration. These are the members of the 8th and 12th. Interestingly, both members end up in an identical sentence. That's about the third position in Article 8. – the solution set out in Article 1 is final. I don't think it's right. I am not a lawyer, however, but in consultation with Mr Filipović, I have again learned that the administrative procedure in Bosnia is two degrees and I think it is wrong that there is no possibility of appeal or appeal to the first solution so that this one eye formal measure and formal decision could have an important meaning. I think it will need to seek a solution that there is a possibility of appeal to a decision, so not registering for the first time, or possibly a decision to abolish a solution for something. That's the first one. And secondly, i.e. the last thing we have for today in relation to this law is that Article 13 speaks of criminal provisions and is said to punish the person responsible in the legal person organised by the production, the remont of NGOs, against the provisions of Article 3(3) of this Act. I'll be very simple and very clear. I believe that breaking the law should always be sanctioned, that breaking the rules on who can deal with the production and refurbishing of arms and military equipment is a serious violation, can cause very serious consequences for the safety of individuals, for the safety of citizens, security within the country, sometimes international relations, etc., but in spite of all this, I believe that the provision that someone who violates these regulations, if you look at there, has very many elements, therefore very many elements. Tomorrow someone will interpret that the production of military boots by military standards is a violation of this law. So a natural person in a legal person as soon as he comes to court is already five years old and over. I believe that these provisions are dragonous, especially in a situation where our citizens are exposed to bombings of different criminal law standards within Bosnia and Herzegovina and 28 June, or criminal law relating to citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example. in The Hague, etc. I believe that such a provision can't really survive and I don't think it will achieve a solution, but it certainly wants to cause a very serious depth in standards where sometimes someone will get five years in prison for a severe physical sentence, an accident or I don't know a car accident where five people have been killed is determined by a three-year prison sentence, and someone who's produced maybe a thousand or two thousand military boots starts with five years in prison. It's serious stuff. Well. Let me, let me, if I understand anything, I understand this very well. Arms and military equipment, then production. Because the remont is neither production nor production, Mr. Spasojević, but repairing military boots. Just read it, I'll interpret it, I can interpret it a little bit. So I believe that this provision is certainly incorrect, inconsistencies and is not in logic, so criminal provisions and sanctions within the ruling laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Europe. We even know that in Sweden for the most part 12 years is the ultimate punishment, which is sustained. In the rules for a maximum of 12 years. And now we're signing off for a little better firecrackers for five years to start. So, I'm holding that it was supposed to give room for the court to do the job, which means to give the suspended sentence significantly lower, probably a year and not limit the upper sentence, and then leave the court space to judge, because that's his job. So it's not just the court's job to determine the facts, but to establish against these facts and sanctions that can be correct and which can be effective. For that reason, I think these things, that these things should have been fixed, these other two, and as far as these first ones are concerned, I'm sure we'll discuss it. Since we don't have an instrument to fix this right now, I believe we'll soon be able to have changes and additions to this law. It would be no harm to me if the Council of Ministers and now the competent Ministry of Trade under this law of foreign trade were to initiate these changes, if not, then probably one of their colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1853	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here's Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1854	I would take this opportunity to ask the proposing representative and I would like an clarification in Article 11. - inspection, last sentence, actually the last, way of monitoring and reporting will be prescribed by means of guidance issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The personal guidance will also regulate the procedure and periodicity of the inspection people. I don't see within what time, and I'm asking this question from one of the bad practices that our 60-day ministries have. So that applies to this 11. ________(?) 29 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Here, I apologize for that I have overlooked, but here I expect it to be as it is said, otherwise we are witnesses of non-compliance with deadlines and sometimes not adopting the necessary legal acts, instructions and other acts so that we have gaps and then often unresolved issues or clarifications that are necessary for the quality of the implementation of certain laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1856	Thank you very much. That's good. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? He's not answering. So, I suggest that now after these discussions we vote on this law on production and arms and military equipment in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you very much. So unanimous. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point as well. The 12th item of the agenda is Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the first reading, you received the Law as well as a report by the competent commission. First there is a debate on the necessity and ways in which the Law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. Amendment to the bill, no amendment to the bill. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Great. So we don't have any debates. Here's Zoran Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1857	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I think that when we passed this law, we were tasked with discussing the basic law when we discussed this. We felt that these amounts that are here are criminal statements that are a little too high and I think now in these changes and additions, especially as regards citizens, where the amount of 100 to 400 KM is put here that this is really a drastic amount. There's no one even paying 400 marks to be punished for something 400 marks, that's what I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1858	It's a minimum sentence, it's very small, for insulting the flag and. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1859	Come on, I understand this for the authority and the company and the other legal person, but for the citizens, this is me, I think this is too much of a punishment. We're still a democratic society, we don't have a verbal delinquent, and here we're literally bringing it in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1860	I must admit that democracy does not mean anarchy. Someone for anarchy must be punished and for democracy rewarded. Thank you very much. Anybody else get a word in? Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1861	Respecting the reasons Mr. Spasojević brought out here, of course, if we see that pensions are here in Bosnia and Herzegovina on average 150, 160 marks, 170, then for one flag insult should give 3 pensions. I still don't think any pensioner, no pensioner has any reason to insult the flag so he can spend three pensions. However, I can imagine that some dawn comes, not just from Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it has this desire to offend our flag a little bit, and that it is standard and that it is paid and that income per capita may be thousands of dollars. So let him pay those 400 marks, there's nothing wrong. It'll be useful for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1862	Well, we can't tell anyone you're insulting, so you won't pay anything and someone will pay you. That's it. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Limov. It's a little insulting when I can't pay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1863	I, of course, want to say my opinion when it comes to this. We cannot stimulate insult and use or protect the name of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the height of the penalty. I personally think this is exactly the proper punishment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1864	Thank you very much. Are there any more debaters? Please excuse me, Chief Minister, welcome. Here you go. No Niko please forgive me, I apologize. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1865	Everything was regular in the Rules of Procedure. I welcome all present.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1866	I'd be begging.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1867	So that there is no dilemma about these remarks, therefore a citizen cannot harm this law at all as a citizen. So here is a 100 to 400 mark if, for example, a storekeeper carries in his name a store called Bosnia and Herzegovina or in that name uses it, it is therefore forbidden to use it without approval. So this is the meaning of the law, that the name Bosnia and Herzegovina is used adequately, it's not about any delicacies, etc. Therefore, without the approval of any of these entities, I cannot use the name. If they get approval, they won't pay this fine, if they don't get it, and they'll pay this fine. I think it's suitable for a 100 to 400-mark operation and within the limits of minimum and maximum prescribed criminal penalties. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1868	No, we're not called Bosnia and Herzegovina, we're calling ourselves Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a huge difference. That's a huge difference. Thank you very much. [[Common discussion]] Take it easy. We'll have to change the MPs. Thank you very much. We heard the discussion. We'll change MPs. Thank you very much. So who's here? We heard a discussion. Please vote. Who's in favor of passing the law in the first reading? So unanimous. Thank you very much. One abstention. Stick to the citizens. 12th point Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading That was it? 32 Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure - Proposer of the Council of Ministers This is 13 point de? The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. There was no amendment to the law. I'm opening a debate. Who's in favor of adopting this law in our first reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. It's the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the official vote of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- the proposal by the Council of Ministers' House of Representatives passed the Law in its first reading. There was no amendment to the bill. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. Thank you very much. Who is it for us to adopt the Law in our first reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. The 15th item of the agenda is Ad.15. The proposal for a law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- a proposal by the Council of Ministers, the first reading of the House of Representatives passed the Law in its first reading. There was no amendment to the law. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering. Thank you very much. Who's in favor of adopting this law in our first reading? Who's in? Unanimity. One's restrained, right? Thank you very much. Ad.16. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH – Proposer The House of Representatives, the first reading of the Amendment on the bill was not so I open the debate, since the House of Representatives proposed this law, he also adopted it in the first reading. I'll put it on. I'm opening a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1870	33 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1871	The representative is the House of Representatives. I'm just saying, they're the promoters.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1872	Thank you. Do we have a report from the Council of Ministers on this? Is there a commission on this? The Commission has accepted whether and offered to take this decision. Thank you very much. Mr. brkati reporting for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1873	I know that the commission passed on to our home, but I also know that the commission was not unanimous and I know that the Council of Ministers had a different opinion on this proposal and I am sorry that there is no one here from the Council of Ministers and I really did when I read the proposal, this Article 1 and Article 2 and when I read the explanation, then I asked myself whether we were more protected by citizens of another country, citizens of the Republic of Croatia or if we were protecting the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And from that explanation, I'm not in favor of any citizen of the world being damaged, that we understand each other. But first, if we're going to protect the citizen of any, first protects the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then citizens of another state. Because I'm asking you to read the explanation, and I can read it, too, which led me to one, I'll read it. Notorna says the fact that refugees mostly from Croatia who replaced property with refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina have found a humiliating and above all discriminatory situation. Namely, these persons were left without their property, more specifically they were seized by the decision of the Republika Srpska authorities. A number of issues are raised here, such as whether the property laws refer to refugees from Croatia or if they refer to whether this could have been done before a certain agreement with Croatia was concluded? The point would be property laws is the right to return property, not to confiscate other people's property, and in practice there's opposite and absurd things that, I have here a large questionnaire, you know. The persons from Croatia who replaced the property with persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no substitute for this under quotes, it should be, they lose property in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they have been replaced, and the property they have changed in Croatia cannot be returned mainly because the persons with the costumes have switched property as owners of their property and have no obligation to return property. Having, just a little bit, please, given this absurdity and not the concern of competent institutions for people, I suggest that the House take this bill under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure are adopted. 34 But here I have a very large questionnaire, a huge questionnaire, is that really a decent job? Because the citizen of Croatia, we are not to blame in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not to blame. If Croatia has passed laws that will surely be brought down in any international court. I do understand, then this is not well explained. It's not well explained here. Because don't just talk to me here right now, please don't let anyone tell me that the targets of Bosnia and Herzegovina are specifically Bosniaks leaving the premises of certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and changing their apartments in '92. and '93. It rusted voluntarily. Don't tell me that. And that they did it freely and that they did it at their own free will. That's absolutely not what you're telling me, because you can't convince me. Under this, they will be damaged and I think that this law does not belong to the Refugees Act at all, but that this problem should be dealt with completely by another law. The Real estate law there and a completely different law, not the Refugee Act. The wrong place is where these problems are located, and the wrong law is located. And I really, to vote for this today, to raise my hand or whenever I need a lot of arguments to give me both the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers who should still be as executive body behind this. I don't see anyone here defending this attitude and I'm very questioned, very questionable, and I won't be able to raise my hand for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1874	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1875	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not sure if I understood Mr. Brk, but I wouldn't go in from Croatia, faces from Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's talk of refugees, and I don't see what's not well done here in this change, if we take that back, they get the right to return after they prove that the replacement was. It is not disputed if the replacement was forced to prove and receive the right to replace it. That's one thing. And the other thing that's being conditioned here, it makes perfect sense for me that the one who returns the property has the right to get his property that he replaced with that person. I mean, these are the two perfectly normal things that stand here in this change. So to prove that under duress was made, that's what I think is meant in particular. And the second is that I have the right to my own house that I've replaced, if I'm obliged to return someone else's house that someone's looking for. I mean, that's normal stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1876	We heard Radovanović. I, Mr. Zoran, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1877	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, so here I just want to say, as I come from Bijeljina and in Bijeljina it is very attractive to replace the sale or in some way come into possession of the property, because Bijeljina is now one of the most expensive municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 35 And as for this amendment to this Article 1, I have no reason not to support this amendment because it is ensured here that whoever replaced his property, means who was able to replace his property to return to his property, has returned it means there are two conditions, if it was carried out under pressure, but in so far as it means that whoever did that swap has to release that property he usurped in the other part to mean the one who, who replaced it with, had to, so that he could come into possession of his property. In that sense, it was said that there would be no abuse here to seek his property, and that property he kept there in another state says so I wrote it down and maybe he sold it, maybe he did something to him, and now he's looking for his property to come back. In that sense, he's a member. At least that's how I understood.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1878	Thank you very much. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1879	This here is very short, but it still needs to be read well and more times, at least I need to understand. And as far as I'm concerned, this is inconclusive. Why? Because this means that again those who participated in the exchange are to renegotiate on the trade. That's how I interpret it and read it. I think this is what I accept, but this for me, as I see it doesn't mean much. Because it still remains a possibility, without these changes, that two can always agree on a replacement or some sort of compensation, etc. And everything else, and it's written here again, because in the end it says that the evidence that they committed under duress is that somehow something can be done and when it makes the other party available, its replaced assets. But only if the other side agrees, if it doesn't agree, says then we did the job, the job is done, etc. You know, that reminds me of one situation today, and I'm doing some sort of job, and I'm making a deal for a while, and I realize for whatever reason that I've been wronged, and now I'm going to get things back to square one. Only the other one can do it if the other one wants to. I'm reading it and interpreting it and for me this, I don't know here I just don't see the great purpose and reason that this, because again, I'd like someone else to tell me. I haven't even read this explanation. To me, the explanation doesn't even matter how anyone sees this solution. And I see it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1880	Thanks a lot, buddy. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1881	Because I feel the need to, since there has been a lot of debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission on this bill that has two articles, but it is...it is my duty to defend what has passed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, of course, if 36 can be defended and I will defend the same argument that we have come to the adoption of this bill. Namely, I have to say this, what was run by the Constitutional and Legal Commission to accept what had already been accepted by the House of Representatives. First. By accepting the proposal for this law of amendments and supplementing the Refugees Act, we cannot touch, nor can we affect the legal certainty of those persons who have gone from Republika Srpska to any country, there is a specific mention here of Croatia who received the property of the public notary certificate with the presence of a person who has changed the property and on the basis of a public notary certificate they have carried out in the book of that property. So the legal status of that property is that it's the property of that person who has a public notation certificate, because without it, you wouldn't sign up and let's get on with the specific thing right now. From Republika Srpska I guess they didn't go with, I guess they were Bosniaks and they were Croats. When they got there, they booked their property. Now there is a problem why the authorities or bodies of the Republika Srpska's authorities do not allow those who came from Croatia, I would not say immediately that they do not have Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship. That's the second question, this law doesn't treat. So these are persons who came from Croatia, I guess mostly those are people of Serbian nationality in most of them. They came before one, so I read this article 1 before a dam of state authorities, the competent authorities of Republika Srpska who did not give them the book and the replaced property. Wait a minute, that says here. Because after I find out that the replacement has been made by coercion, etc. the other Contracting Party shall make its replaced assets available. Look. They did not register or the problem is their property and their legal status in Republika Srpska. I think that's what this article says. So how can he prove that under duress there was this replacement? Well, you can do this in a regular court procedure somehow. It is, this law, like the bill, that was there and the hard words, that it means ethnic cleansing, that it now means retaining all those who have gone and replaced their property and gone to other countries, others have come, etc. It's hard to stop right now that people are just one nationality. So that's something to talk about. So it is clear here that those who suffer should also suffer, suffer the competent authorities that should enable those who have come into that property to be able to use it, to own it on the basis of valid replacement papers and to register as theirs who have come from other premises in Republika Srpska. That's why the Constitutional and Legal Commission is here, given this bill, and I guess that's how it was, I have information that, in this sense, it's also been discussed at the House of Representatives, these were the reasons that led us to have the Constitutional and Legal Commission accept this and that Dom recommends that this in the same text as the House of Representatives accepts it at the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1882	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Radovanović. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1883	I apologize for going out again, but I feel obliged to explain things. First, this applies to a certain period of time. So the persons who replaced the assets during the period foreseen by the property laws, so for a certain period of time for a war period when, however, we have to agree to the conclusion of certain contracts must go under review, i.e. we have to bear in mind that there could have been pressure. So that's where we totally agree, and that's the first condition that I think is not disputed to determine if anyone has made a contract under pressure. And another thing, I'd like to set another example, unlike Mr. Ilija. Maybe that doesn't apply to what he said, not to what, this example of what you said, we have, the situation is next. Srbin who came from Croatia to Republika Srpska were replaced with Croats who went to Croatia. Let's say, let's take that example. Hrvat in Croatia had the opportunity to register the property. Srbin in Republika Srpska did not register, or had no possibility. We come to the situation that Hrvat, Hrvat from Croatia, are seeking their property back in Republika Srpska. And they get that property. And it is not disputed, but Serbs cannot get their property in Croatia because it is registered, because the Hrvat from Republika Srpska has registered that property in Croatia. That's why it's required to itch, so one person can come into the pseudodeeds of his property in another state and in another city.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1884	We can't make that law. It's a Croatian law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1885	No, it's regulated by this law. Please, I don't think both of these conditions are controversial. I don't see why it's so controversial to prove that he's not under duress, or that under duress he's made a deal and I don't see what's so controversial that if I'm obliged to return his house to someone else, I'll get my own house. I really don't see it there, it's, I think it's two things that are regulated by this law and I don't see what's going on here. Or someone thinks I'm bound to bring back a house, and I can't get my own house. Really. That's two things that are regulated. I don't see the third thing that's regulated by this law. And both things are undeniable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1886	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1887	Well, here's exactly what Mr. Radovanović said was something that led me to be restrained on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So it is this fact that we cannot influence the authorities in the Republic of Croatia to ensure what you are talking about in terms of return that has led me to think in the direction that this must be resolved, first of all 38 bilateral agreements, or property laws, or laws that treat this issue, rather than the Refugees Act. So I'm not sure this is going to help these people, and it's really a problem that needs to be regulated in some way. I am, therefore, so I don't think this law will achieve what we want.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1888	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasan Čengić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1889	Dear colleagues, it seems to me that this debate on this amendment, or amendments to this law, has shown that it has indeed been more than necessary in this case to have a proposing representative. Because it's still the promoter who knows, not only what he writes, but also the intensity. Secondly, I think it is clear from this that it is necessary to continue to decide to have a representative of the Council of Ministers. According to the information I have, I do not know if I am wrong, the Council of Ministers' representative on the committee responsible, Mr Filipović, did not support this amendment and presented his reasons. Now just a little attention, please. If there wasn't this explanation down there, I have to admit that I wouldn't have thought of it at all, so if there was no explanation down there, reading the text itself, I don't see anything else here, I don't see the Republic of Serbia anywhere. Because nothing in the amendment itself has been mentioned. So this concerns the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this regard concerns all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now let's talk this way. It is also known if we will deny not agreeing, agree, it is known that there has been an exchange of assets under pressure in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory over a certain period of 12-13 years. It was. Some cases remain as such, some are proven, some are open. So in some cases of pressure, someone's gone, and that's how it is. Some proved it was under pressure, so they came back. Some are in the process of proof. Some have raised their hands, etc. But let's go, Mr Filipović, I apologize for calling you, because you are the lawyer and head of this committee, that I read the text as an illegal. If you let me in here, it's said – people who did the replacement property. Nowhere in this section is said to be under pressure. If I were to write this amendment, and if I wanted to point out that fact and if that's the occasion, then I would say right at the beginning of this amendment – people who were forced, or replaced under pressure. If they were to make a replacement, the first part of this amendment says – they were to make a replacement, and then later they said – they proved that it was under pressure, it was mildly stated in itself contradictoryly in the text. So that's the first one. Secondly, Mr Filipović, as a lawyer, concludes that this, the second part of this amendment, in which it is said or the end of the sentence, proves that the replacement was carried out after they proved that the replacement had been carried out after they proved that the replacement had been made under duress. He concludes that they prove it to the court. And here's what I'm trying to say is that 39 is proving some kind of paperwork in front of some body in charge of refugee and displaced persons. Since I find this in the Refugees and Displaced Persons Act, I prove it to some authorities, for example. Cantonal or entity ministers there, some office or some of their offices, some person in charge of it. Please, isn't this opening up a terrible opportunity for volunteering right now? That now some authorities there begin to interpret it in one way or another. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1890	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1891	And in that, I'm talking about that period, so now I'm showing up and I'm saying that me, that someone expelled me from Usticolina, from Odjak, that someone expelled me from it and that day, I replaced the property. Let us, let us come, let us only discuss. Now it's a debate. That I switched assets there, yes, but someone forced me to. And now I'm showing up at the cantonal refugee ministry in Canton of Sarajevo where someone else is from East Bosnia got caught and sits right in that chair, so I happen to know him and say he's a countryr who helps me with this, you write me this paper, etc. And now we're moving on. So, first of all, it's not clear on why the beginning of the amendment doesn't talk about substitution under duress, and the end speaks. It's not clear who's going to solve this question by what procedure? It's not clear, and it opens up a series of problems. If someone wanted to introduce this amendment the issue of resolving the property of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia or former citizens of Croatia now in Croatia, then it is obvious that we cannot resolve interstate relations with this law. So that's obvious. From all of this, I can only say one, obviously one serious question and a good intention to resolve this issue is not resolved by the proposed amendment. So it's definitely not settled. And I argue, I claim exactly what Mr. Jukić said was inconclusive, that it would actually cause a terrible disturbance on the ground and that we, once we complicated this state of affairs, would have to do even more, if we adopted this, then we would have to react and fix this. So I'm holding that this is a condition with this amendment text. What he passed in the House of Representatives, I don't mind, I'm mildly told I think it's a little bit like this to say in good intentions to resolve the issue of a number of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina or in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's been missed to read the text itself a little bit more rigorously. For this reason, I believe that the proposed text of this amendment does not address this issue, but opens up a number of other issues. And I think this, regardless of what formally concerns the persons who are displaced, internally displaced, and so on. Immigrants, emigrated that this matter today is no longer matter for this law, but for that other law and let it go according to its procedure. If it were in the 40 Law on Property Legal Relations, then I believe that this question of mine would prove that someone under duress was clearer, because, as far as I know, it's mostly proof by agreement, or proof by agreement, or by court. For this reason, I do not think there are any conditions for us to come forward today and not to go further into a discussion that could very much divide us on this issue, I suggest, therefore...I suggest that we leave this and ask for the presence of both the promoter and the Council of Ministers and that we take the final position with their presence. Otherwise, I tell you immediately by undermining the right of anyone who has lost property by force and violence, by supporting unquestionably any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by supporting this right absolutely, I will be against this amendment, not because I am against rights, but because this amendment complicates and worsens the situation and does not solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1892	Thank you very much. Can I ask you a favor? Radović's up now. I'm gonna Zamolić you to continue the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1893	Dear colleagues, I don't see why we're making such an amendment so complicated and why we're politicizing it. I was a member, or I was on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Maybe it's not one case that happens in Republika Srpska, so it's not mass, so it's about a dozen cases that Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions should in some way, so we think Bosnia and Herzegovina is for the whole territory, and also for Republika Srpska to try to help solve it. Let's help solve this. So it's undeniable that every time in a certain period has made a switch of pressure and no pressure can restore it. So that's undeniable. But we're telling this member who wants to return the property to be so good that the one he's got comes back again. So we get to the previous situation and nothing more. We won't do it now. Secondly, as respected colleagues interpret, not all of them are interpreted here, but only those people who believe that they have been damaged and have filed a request in the legal time limit to return. So it's okay and what's logical and what needs to be made possible and it needs to be returned to their property and it's only a condition when they get back the one they took and returned to the previous owner and nothing more than that. And I don't see what's controversial and what's going to cause any more complications and what's going to make the situation worse and I don't see any ethnic cleansing out of it. It is about a dozen cases where we have such people who have taken advantage of the fact that we do not have bilateral relations with Croatia and the property has entered there and they do not think of returning their property and we have people who have lost their property. And we need to look at cases like that a little bit. So that applies to these people. So much and thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1894	I thank Mr. Radović. Mr. brkati. Okay, we can work, we just can't decide. There's a gentleman in the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1895	I apologize for going out again, I think we've opened the right question in the right way. I'm not for any man to be damaged on the globe. That's what I said earlier. And, wait a minute, let me finish. I'm not for anyone to be damaged. But I am also not so that Bosnia and Herzegovina itself takes over the burden of solving this problem of people who have had to leave their house in a certain way. I think this is the real question that our delegation to the Council of Europe raises the question of the return of property that the Republic of Croatia illegally has allocated to a certain number of citizens at the expense of citizens who have left the region, I mean Serbs specifically. So they've now entered some property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they can't take it, they can't go back there. What does our delegation in the Council of Europe do to get these people into a situation so they can get their property, if already the Republic of Croatia itself. So this is a problem that should not only be solved by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it only goes to the burden of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of them, and that the law is amnested unfairly which has brought the Republic of Croatia to do so. I see it from this bill's explanation. I see it that way. And please, if not then tell me that the Serbs who came from the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina can return there. You'll tell me I can't. Now, you're gonna tell me that that's where their houses are right now on somebody else's side. Well, I know, but then it can't be, it can't be if it's unfair in an irregular way to do it. So that's the deal. This should be resolved at the state level, if it cannot be resolved at the state level, then the international community through the Council of Europe to influence the resolution. Please don't just tell me that everything needs to be solved on the burden of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I won't accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1896	Thank you very much. Mr. Zoran Spasojević. Please. I'm not sorry, please. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1897	I didn't answer professionally, I lifted three fingers and then the president wanted to ignore me for it. 42 Mr. Chairman, I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and lately we have witnessed the events that we have carried out the transfer of powers from entity institutions to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where Dejton has explicitly given it to entities. So we had the Law on Defence Reform, we had about VAT, etc. and then the individuals came up and swore that we had to strengthen the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for Europe, for the sake of partnership for peace, etc. Now when it happens vice versa, when it is, there is no secret Republika Srpska is burdened by this problem of refugees from Croatia and this case of property and now the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are running away from solving the problem. We are aware that this is not the problem at all. We are also aware that this must be agreed by agreements and agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, but we believe that by starting to solve the problem, raising it to the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we will probably succeed in some future period with these stronger positions of the state and the other. We have a similar case about the pensioner's rights. The right to make pensions in the Federation, so it's up to the individuals. Now suddenly they leave that problem to the entity and make an important entity. Do we want the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take over and appear and live on every inch of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, and not when it comes to the problem then we leave it to the entity, and we do not want to deal with it institutionally.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1898	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, please. Here you go, Zoran.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1899	I apologize for calling her the second time, but here I was offered a few moments before the debate to say a few words. And I think I agree with Mr. Osman that he doesn't need to hurt anyone, and there's no reason, and I would be a really unfair man if I wanted to pass the law so that someone would be damaged. But this law tries to put justice in a sense and say this is at least somewhat fair, even though I know there is no justice on earth, justice is in heaven, I know it for sure, and on earth there will hardly be justice. But by this law, here's how I'm going to explain it. What he says is coerced. Everything is under duress that was done on April 4, '92. Or April 2, '92. until 13 December '95. So he shouldn't be looking, Mr. Čengić, for any confirmation or anything. So it's all in this period that's been done as far as the replacements are concerned, anything can. If he says it was done under duress, the law, or judgment tells him it's what he says. So this period is thought to have been made under duress. This second view, so it's illogical that if I wanted to, I didn't understand this argument by looking at it as others realized it was just a problem with the citizens of Croatia, or with the Serbs from Croatia. This problem can also be a problem for our citizens who have replaced from Sarajevo, Bijeljina from Banja Luka, Livna, etc. And 43 for someone to be able to exercise means their right, they must give up that right they took from someone else's. So if he wants to make it back to his house, he has to bring back that house he took from the other one. It's a fundamental right, and I don't know why we're not going to accept this much of the two facts that speak explicitly about it. It means anyone who submits a request and one who happens to be a replacement if it occurs between April 4 or April 2, 1992. and December 13, '95. It is believed to have been done under duress and this second attitude to not retain two houses. Well, it's most logical that I can't keep my own or that neighbor I took from. And what's controversial about this is I don't know at all. I mean, the argument is kind of ghastly and I think we're the ones who caught the argument, and the argument isn't right. The right is actually this, if I want to return my property, I am obliged to have that property that I entered to release and, for a reason, to state that it was committed under duress, and coercion means that it was committed in these 3-4 years of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1900	Thank you very much. I only have one question. Let me be allowed, please. I don't get it. Here's a concrete example. Marko Marković in the Republic of Croatia sold his property to Franja Franjić, and returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina and moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina and entered the Muja Mujic house. And now we say, if Marko Marković cannot return his property to the Republic of Croatia, he will not leave the house of Mujo Mujić either. How will he, please, explain what it is, these are the conclusions that I draw from your explanation to Spasojević. How will he handle this, and how will we force the Republic of Croatia to comply with our laws? That's one thing. The second thing is, why won't Marko Marković empty Mujo Mujić's house because he can't return his property to Croatia? I don't think that's right. I personally think, I will now say myself that I think that this law and this matter should be regulated in property laws, I think it and normally that it should be regulated before it is affected, because it is slightly affecting the relations between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the level of two countries, a solution should be found, and both states in their property laws regulate this matter unanimously and in a way that this law can be passed, can be applied in practice. It's my opinion that in this law, at least in this law, this might be, maybe it shouldn't be regulated. The other thing we have, I have an observation from my esteemed friend who says when we want to talk about raising some things to a state level, then we avoid it because of an entity. According to how he thinks about Republika Srpska's entities, do we not want to solve the problem at the state level? I think so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation and in Bosnia and Herzegovina's 44th parliament, it has been made very clear that the state is equally concerned about all problems and both entities. Here's what I think. Thank you. Bujrum.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1901	Mr. Chairman, that's what I thought was worried about yours why you don't want to adopt this amendment, and that's what you're introducing. three persons, and in this amendment it states clearly – persons who have made the exchange of assets. So two faces could have been executed. There's no third anywhere. I don't know where you are, how you found the third face you put in. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1902	I combined to tell you it's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1903	No, we're discussing what's written here personally. You understand. Don't combine something that's impossible, which doesn't say here. That's one thing I wanted to tell you. And secondly, everyone who's finished means a replacement within the time limit I was talking about, they've all been introduced into possession. I come from Bijeljina. There is not a single man, a Bosniak, or a Croat who had his own house that he had either replaced, or was temporarily taken from him, or was legally made available to another who had not entered his possession. So there's not one. This is about the people who, in person, put some kind of contract between themselves that they said, I give you my property, and you give me yours. It doesn't matter if it's here or whether it's in Croatia. The faces can also be found within Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that such faces exist, that such faces cannot use both their property and the property they have replaced. And that's what this is all about. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1904	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Filipović, welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1905	Just a few more words about this. Now I've tried teaching with Mr. Čengić the thing to elaborate. What we're saying again on the Constitutional and Legal Commission was in mind. I didn't say that when I first called, but it came from my colleagues' discussion. We had in mind that it was individual rights. It is therefore a matter of individual rights between natural persons who replaced the assets. Whether they were doing it by means of a fictitious purchase agreement, sold to each other there and certified outside the RS and RS, or writing a replacement contract 45, and then certified it in one place or another. It is therefore a mandatory relationship, a bonding relationship which is, here is why we mention Croatia. Well, in the explanation here, it says here that it's a notoristic fact, because it applies only to refugees, so it writes mostly from Croatia. That is why I was free to mention neighbouring Croatia as an example of where these legal relations took place. So no body, what Mr. Čengić said from some resolute ministry and that. To challenge this legal business between the two when there was a will, and this change allows for all those who changed their mind, so it gives the possibility to all those who changed their minds, or it has developed in them some other consciousness than the one they had at the time of the conclusion of either the buy or the swap agreement, so they can look for their sadification where – both in court and nowhere else. And there's another mix-up here. This is not about the relationship between Republika Srpska as an entity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Federation as an entity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and some other states, no. This is about a physical relationship. Please be nice, about the relationship of a natural person. And here they are all, everything is in the sphere of speculation when it comes to some tens, hundreds of thousands, etc. those cases. How long will you wake up who will now reach for this amendment to this law and say I'd be doing something now? Yeah, but he's gonna have to prove that coercion that he made on the basis that he put his signature on, because in no country, so I believe neither in RS he could have done it if they weren't both persons present, present when the contract was concluded. It is real estate, it must be verified in a court or in a public notebook in Croatia where notaries or public notebooks are already working. And they've been working for 7-8 years. So that's it. _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Wait a minute. What the High Representative said refers to this part in a statement in 4 and 5, says they were kidnapped by the decisions of Republika Srpska's authorities. So it will definitely have to be the authorities of Republika Srpska to prove whether they have kidnapped or not. That's why someone doesn't enjoy their replacement property, and it came from some other space in Republika Srpska. That's it. I'm still staying with, here, after I said this, so I tried to tell Mr. Brk that there is no relationship between any state with Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities. It is about individual relationships, the relations of natural persons, the will of two people who entered the legal work fully aware, if they are not this amendment and the addition of the Law only gives them one opportunity to prove it in court. I would also like to conclude that there are no amendments and additions to this law, that there is no law, it is not again excluded to be in a regular procedure within a certain time frame, listen to the attempt to coerce a fraud of some kind of legal work between 46 of these natural persons. I think that's it. This gives them one more chance to confirm it. They have the right to do so without this law. And I must also say that I was in doubt when I listened to the proposer's explanation on our commission whether this, this amendment and the supplementation are so conceived to this law? It was doubtful on the commission, but it got over this. If one of the rights of any individual, whatever his name and wherever he came from, is damaged, let us give him the opportunity to do so by this change, and he achieves his right to do so. That's what led us, and if I personally think it's a better place to regulate these things in entity laws, when it comes to refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1907	Thank you very much. Mr. Radovanovć. If it's a replica, it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1908	I am pleased that Mr Filipović, as a good, excellent lawyer, said that he too seems to have this law, that this amendment would be more suitable for the Law on property relations and bonds than here. I will replicate this attitude when he says that the two sides, of course when they replaced it in some conditions, were both present and present. They did. Of course, but under what conditions. The conditions in which the guns were pointed, the conditions in which their houses were surrounded, the conditions in which they felt that their family would be threatened. I'm not talking about any individual, I'm not talking about any people, not a single point, I'm talking about BiH from 8 April and I don't know what October or November or December 95. - 92. So these are the terms. Excuse me, gentlemen. You can't, if it was a normal condition, he said the amendment wasn't necessary, then it's pointless, then no one can prove this other part that he was under duress. We're talking about being forced. Therefore, in that sense, Mr Filipović, there is no legal argument that I was present or that you were present when I, through my structures, pressured you to trade with me, because, therefore, you were formally present, but you had no other condition, which is a basic legal condition, therefore, freedom. You've made decisions under unfree conditions. Still, get back to what's important. Please, gentlemen, I'm warning you once again that we're looking at the text not in the explanation, not in the interpretation. If you look at the text there is no RS or Federation. She's not there. If you look there is no Croatia there is no Yugoslavia, Serbia, Montenegro, Romania, everything is Bosnia, but there is something else. I, who one day replaced and sold it and agreed with it, today I saw that prices had changed and not a bit, then the prices of the head were insignificant and let alone property. Today the prices have changed. Don't forget that this can be a very interesting and important motive, to go back to the process and return to some original state and to open one process of general confusion and ambiguity and what Mr. Jukić most precisely defined not implementation. 47 So once again I replicate to Mr Filipović, respecting that he is a lawyer, and that I am not at all, and not only a lawyer but a lawyer to the bar. I continue to argue that from this amendment, which would be found in this law, it is not absolutely clear that the proof, abandonment or signing of a contract under duress is done only by an inconclusive court. It is not clear, and for all these reasons I claim that this amendment, probably with the best desire as a formulation, does not achieve that goal at all and achieves each other and for this reason I hold that instead of voting, overvote, I am afraid that we will have to get into the voting situation in another way. If anyone in this country has an interest, like the House of Peoples. This is where we represent the peoples of BiH. If anyone in this country has an interest in protecting some people from forced confiscation of property, it's us who represent Bošnjak and we have absolute interest and he's unquestionable. As far as I'm concerned, I think we should protect every citizen and every single individual individually in his right. For all reasons, I claim that this amendment, as presented and proposed, will introduce confusion, which will cause further anxiety and politicisation of the whole process. That's why I suggest we give up the plea. If we do not refuse to give up our statement, we will give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to make a statement, and perhaps I will suggest that it correct the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1909	Thank you very much. I instead could think about adopting this in the first reading of this law. Here's Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1910	Ladies and gentlemen, right now, I don't want any more. First of all, Mr. Čengić, I have all these arguments that you have given, and I have taken it as a support to adopt these amendments, these are not amendments, this is the law. Everything you said goes in favor of voting for these, not amendments, but for this law. I don't really see, I think this law simplifies things, and all the time they're saying things are complicated. We complicate things, and the law simplifies them. This law does not apply at all to the assets sold, but is finely written here on the replaced assets, meaning the relationship between the two persons. So let's not complicate something that's simply said here. Secondly, we caught up with some cases of Croatia BiH. Why, this is where refugees of BiH citizens are mentioned. Please, let's look at it that way. Do you, please, citizens of BiH refugees. We are protecting the citizens of BiH refugees if, please, just a little bit. The citizens of BiH have fled to Croatia. We're protecting him. Let's protect him. Let's not protect the citizen who came to BiH from Croatia. So let's look at it that way. Let's not mix up other countries. Let's watch the citizens of BiH. I think this belongs to the refugee law because these cases are solved by the Department of Refugees and Displaced Persons. They're decommissioning, and I think with this argument that they can and can help make this law, that this regulation is a charge to go into this law and, another thing that's still important, and we've mentioned it a little bit. Someone mentioned that this is, this law does ethnic cleansing. Please, on the contrary, I think that by not adopting this law, we support ethnic cleansing. By adopting this law, we won't allow more people, more citizens to come to their property and return to their property and wherever they were. So if we want to support ethnic cleansing, we're not going to pass this law, and if we adopt this law, my opinion is that ethnic cleansing will be less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1911	Thank you very much. Mr. Jukić wanted to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1912	I'm even more, of course, like all of you think about this and make all kinds of combinations. Such a change and addition of the law could only be applied to citizens of BiH and their interchanges. Allow, however, all those other combinations, which are combined with the people of another country, do not matter whether they are neighbouring or any one would not come into consideration, you know why, because they bring all those others into a very unequal position and bring them into a position and situation, that they, in fact, remain without property, and our citizens of BiH at that time become owners, because they have already become property owners there somewhere has no connection in some country, and we are now saying, now you have the right to become owners and your property they had previously in BiH. I think something like this, the question is, because this last part and when they put the other party's assets at the disposal of the other Contracting Party. We can only speak and our laws apply in BiH. I say, if we change and think about all these mutual agreements between people in BiH, even this law is good and it's really going to have the opposite effect of ethnic cleansing. There is, therefore, an effect on the return. He prefers the former property, but I'm saying, if it's another state, then he's really, in my opinion, being discriminatory to all other citizens, or about the property that's in another country, because then our citizens would become property owners, it's so certainly their former citizens in our country, and then there, and so, probably, with their own valuables, they've recorded it on their own, because this doesn't apply to property in another country. It doesn't matter if it's Montenegro, Serbia, Hungary, Croatia, Italy, etc. And that's why I think this is a good question, and I don't think we're going to implement it, and I think that those who are at the opportunity of this law, and I can come, so this combination, which I said, I think will be very questionable and the question of how morally this is proposed, because I say again about the BiH space I support this law, I've studied this combination of everything. I support it, it's absolutely okay. And all other combinations with assets outside BiH are very, very questionable to me, because they lead ours to have what they already have and what they used to have here, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1913	Thank you very much. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1914	I won't answer any more. Mr. Jukić has just told me, and I'm obliged to say it. I believe we know that, but we can't even remember that. So, we here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we can't pass a single law that will bind anyone else outside BiH. 49 Furthermore, it can adopt any institution in Europe, in the world, any regulation in general, it cannot be valid in BiH until this parliament approves it to be ratified. Here we have the next few points as such. So, we, by any standard of law, by any legal act, and even by the Constitution of BiH, cannot affect relations and the legal system of any other state. So that's one thing. We can only view this as one legal norm now proposed to be found in this law, which will commit and apply to the state of BiH, to all those who have entered any legal business replacing real estate within the BiH state. Outside the BiH state, these relations can be regulated by some kind of bilateral, trilateral agreement, etc. And then they'll make a commitment. I'd do it again. There are also some decisions by the High Representative from up to that some legal transactions may be put out of force, etc. So here is the application of property laws. Why not make it possible for anyone, if his individual right to this measure was trampled that this, as we say coerced him into court or to book his property without his will, would allow him to return it to normal proceedings. I see no reason without doubt that this law should not suffer this change in this form. I don't want any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1915	Since we're exhausted and it's a little late, after Brk, we'll approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1916	Maybe it'll be a replica. You can't be sure. I, indeed, can agree with the findings brought here when it comes to citizens in BiH. However, I would now ask one question from all the discussions I have concluded something else. It is as if someone is not interested here that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are now living in BiH do not come into their possession. I know well, Mr Filipović, that we cannot conduct and order any other state to enforce our laws. It is quite clear, but it is also quite clear that by pressing the international community, something that has been done to harm a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, where the Republic of Croatia should change. I am not because of the problem of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I just said it and I will repeat it a hundred times only on BiH territory. I want to believe that people who moved from Croatia under such circumstances to Bosnia are interested in returning their property to them. I know what laws have been passed in Croatia. I know we can't handle it. But I also know that there is much that the international community can do to help deal with it. That is not why I will never raise my hand to resolve this issue in this way, only on the burden of all BiH citizens. And it's just that we have to accept that it's not right and we all have to accept it, because it's not two citizens, it's not five, it's thousands of people who need to settle their status, who need to settle their ownership, their property, and what I know. I'm not about to deal with it this way, Mr. Čengić suggested. What he suggested I do, I think we should do it that way. If we're going to vote on these things here, this isn't good. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1917	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. I think we've exhausted this debate by the Rules of Procedure of this House, and it's my job to put the bill in the first reading for the vote. Who is for this law in first reading? Who's against it? Who's restrained? The law in the first reading was passed. I now wish for a second reading of this law, that, in order not to, however, try to pass the law unanimously, we bring people from the Council of Ministers and that the people of the Council of Ministers and all other relevant people explain it to us, because I simply have a desire to have decisions in the House of Nations brought together, to be unanimous. The Council of Ministers is someone who will operate on it. Let's see what they think about it, and I agree that, I think every law should come to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers declares it. I think you should. However, I am inclined to ask simply for one atmosphere in this home to try the law in another reading at the next congregation to bring. Is that how we get along? Thank you very much. I'm taking a break for lunch an hour for people to have lunch. ...gentlemen, are you from the joint services, have you called anyone from the Council of Ministers to make the presentation? [[PAUZA]] At this last item of the agenda, we must have someone from the Council of Ministers. If he can't chair, well, if he can't, then there's someone who can and should come in today and brief on what we agreed on. So, the 17th point of the agenda. Ad.17. Giving consent to ratification The proposal for a decision to ratify the Agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers to ordinary and passenger buses, the Interbus Treaty – Proposer of the Presidency of BiH The report of the committee responsible has been received and, behold, there is a need for Hasan as president of the Commission to say several sentences concerning this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1918	I'd be ready, but they want a dot by point. 51 So, very briefly, our commission lastly thought it was the 14th session of the proposal for a ratification of this treaty and unanimously adopted that we propose this home to ratify this decision. The reason is a great deal, namely, this contract specifies and facilitates the transport of buses from BiH outside BiH in the area of countries they have signed, which is more than 25 countries, which are being entered by the European Community and a number of other countries in the region, almost all but Serbia-Montenegro, and that is the point. Namely, the three most common options are one when passengers, for example, in tourist transport as one group should travel through several countries, so they leave BiH and return to Bosnia in the same composition, so as not to go through the procedure of individual search for transit permits or passage through countries, they can provide one document, or if our buses go empty to another location outside BiH to take passengers and transport, or if they drive passengers out of here to some location outside BiH, they return empty, etc. So this contract regulates the technical, procedural, legal, formal and other facts that need to be satisfied, in which way this can be realised. At the commission's assessment, this will make it easier for companies in the future to transport our and foreign citizens outside BiH on these occasional tours and at the same time allow foreign companies, i.e. companies from other countries, under the same conditions that they come to BiH and the assessment is that this could further facilitate tourism towards BiH, while continuing to employ our transport companies. Of course, companies will have to meet certain techniques and other standards. The Commission, by discussing this issue, has raised the question of language and has found, unfortunately, very often we also get laws, contracts and conventions, etc. in one language, which is very strange and does not belong to any of the three official languages in BiH. Here, as an example of this contract, I'll give you in Article 1. This contract will apply to the international road transport of passengers of any nationality by occasional journeys. Imagine, please, an international contract signed by 25 countries mentioning nationality. This soul gave for our opposition to see, you see how many nationalist parties they are, in them nationalities and in multilateral contracts. Here's our SDP colleague. He's already laughing at that opportunity. But let me say this. This, apparently no one worked from these three national parties, but was done by some translators, who do not know their language so much Bosnian, Croatian or Serbian that the words of any state origin used an expression of nationality, because it is obviously an English term that has both meanings. This, this error appears several times in this text and it is not, therefore, the only mistake. Since we do not have the opportunity to influence this at this time, I am taking the opportunity to ask the House, on behalf of the Commission, that the College of the House, on behalf of the House, should address all the competent institutions involved in the process of translating these international agreements and agreements to take serious care of it, and I think that we will have to take care of it, and here we will have to support Mr. Šiljegović's question at the beginning of today's session that the sooner we have an office of legislation which, I suppose, would have the authority to review these papers a little bit before they come into this form. We say at this point we can't change, but it's really funny to mention 52 nationalities in an international contract, because, in fact, they don't really mean nationality at all, but citizens of different national backgrounds, or the origins of different states. Here, after this, we propose to this home that we give consent to the ratification of this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1919	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone picking up? I'm putting the subject on the table. Niko one's answering for a word. I suggest we vote. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement, the treaty? Did we all vote? - 11 Does anyone mind? Does anyone have a countryman? There's no one here. So we voted unanimously. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to ratify the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on trade and economic co-operation – Proposer of the Presidency Report of the competent commission, Mr Čengić, is that your commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1920	So, very briefly. This is one of the usual bilateral agreements and our commission has agreed, or adopted, to propose to this home, to give the House consent to ratify the agreement between BiH and Romania on trade and economic co-operation. I would like to inform this home, I think it is important that as a committee, we have concluded that we are asking the competent authorities of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers to prepare one piece of information for us, which would show us what the effects so far are, therefore, what the economic effects and the positive and negative effects of these bilateral agreements have so far signed, especially those in the region to see, in fact, what these agreements are really bringing about and how BiH can make more use of these agreements, or how it can avoid any negative effects that it has, too. In the end, we propose this home to adopt this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1921	Thank you very much. We've heard about this agreement. I'm having an argument. Who's calling for a discussion? Who's to give consent to the ratification of this agreement? Unanimity. Thank you very much. 53 Ad.19. Giving consent to ratifying the proposal for a decision to ratify the Tampere Convention to provide telecommunications resources for disaster mitigation and rescue and assistance operations – the Commission's proposal for a BiH Presidency has the same position here. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1922	So this convention was adopted in 1991, and then extended in 1998 and Bosnia and Herzegovina was proposed, this is, in fact, the last chance to join this convention. It is, in our opinion, interesting for BiH, because, firstly, we have passed terrible victims and casualties and we know well how the consequences of any natural or other disaster or disaster and we believe that the world should be prepared and able to react to such events and that we help each other even more. In this respect, this Convention, which is concerned and allows for the provision of telecommunications resources for disaster, cataclysm and disaster purposes. In that sense, the Commission has also proposed that this House give consent, because we believe that with other benefits, therefore, these generals, that we have adopted another international convention in place so that we can provide additional training and additional equipment according to the criteria and standards that enables these buffers of the Convention and, at the same time, in case we don't need us, we hope that if Bog says we don't need it because of disasters and cataclysms, that BiH can expect support from others who have already signed this Convention. What I would like to repeat again and give another example of what our language looks like ugly in these official documents is also the title of this convention in translation into these languages. I don't know, I've got one version, which should look like Bosnian, it's not, but here I'm using... which I have in my hand, which says this is the tampere convention on the provision of telecommunications resources. We, as far as we know in our languages in all three, say that we are providing assistance, providing support, etc., but if it is the resources, then it is the use, the ability to use, the giving of resources, etc. But providing resources isn't safe. This is another example of how ugly that language looks, which, by all accounts, is indeed being abused by some who may have learned some foreign languages, but, unfortunately, they have never bothered to learn their native language. For this reason I would once again insist on you from the College of the House to ask, officially ask for this document to appear in the form in which it is possible, if it should be here again with this changed term, because it really sounds ugly and I will tell you very clearly. You have friends who are pagans, who are language teachers in high schools at universities etc. Writers, poets, people who have a sense of language and our people, or all three of our peoples, have an extraordinary sense of language. I'm sorry, we've been called so often for our salaries for this for what's justified and not justified, but, really, who's going to justify us here if this comes out in the official voice tomorrow, or in the official newspaper and they say, "Here it is, gentlemen from the House of Peoples sitting there, they're out of the cider, they haven't even read it. They didn't see the title as anything like it. Well, if you'll excuse me, is that one 54 normal citizen criticism? Niko of them are concerned, nor do most of them understand the proper procedure that we cannot change at this stage, but it's really high time to change that. I'm asking you to do it both as Dom and as College. Otherwise, then we'll have to act individually, and that wouldn't be good and we don't need it. So we really need high-quality translators, and I repeat again, we need lecturers to take care of these, however, are official documents. This is going to get published. This will be found in the offices of thousands of lawyers, lawyers, clerks, etc. And we need to keep an eye on what these documents look like in our language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1923	Thank you very much. I think the College and the Assembly's services will intervene. Thank you, Hasan. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Are you to give consent to ratify this proposal? Who's in? No one's against it. So unanimous. Ad.20. A report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period 17 June to 27 November 2003 received a report from the Commission and, if the President of the Commission, who works very seriously, needs to go out for a pay phone and say a few sentences on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1924	As you know, the Commission has an obligation to prepare and deliver a report on its work in this House and we adopted this report in our usual procedure at the last session and forwarded it here to the House. We do not have an obligation, or at least until now in the Rules of Procedure, there is no obligation to submit an annual report, which is a little strange, but a periodic report, so there is a periodic report for the period from 17 June to 27 November, or rather for the second half of last year. In the full report, just briefly, we had on the agenda three drafts of the law, 40 contracts and 16 information agreements and 12 reports of parliamentary delegations etc. for a whole year. What I'd like to emphasise about this report for the second half of last year is just two things. We spoke to the College several times to help us resolve two issues, because these were the topics of our commission's debate. It is one thing to resolve the issue of the secretary, to finally resolve the issue of the secretary, one which is normally and necessary by law and another question to ask the College to define the criteria or groups of friendships with other countries in co-operation with the other, in order to finally begin the debate because a number of countries have formed friendship groups, 55 parliamentary groups of friendships with the BiH Parliament, but we do not have a side that would continue co-operation which is not good at all. So, as far as the rest is concerned, the Commission is doing the usual. I just have to say, here, unfortunately we don't even have the media here, that's not interesting for them. For 14 sessions or believed 130 or 140 points as far as we've had in less than a year on this committee, just once in just one point we've brought back one question. So, not that we disagreed, but we agreed to bring him back and consider him later. In our remaining cases, we agreed and I can freely say that it was not possible to see who represented which party and which people, because we simply talked in a way that, indeed, went towards finding the most qualitative and better solutions. In that sense, I can say that I have the easiest job in this house to chair a committee where all people are more capable and valuable than me, so I thank you for your cooperation and I want to continue it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1925	Haso, it's okay, you're gonna stay on that committee for the rest of your life. We're not gonna change you. Here, we heard the report, when such an incompetent man runs such a capable commission. All right, air force, helicopters. Here we heard the report, you had a report in front of you, and we heard Hassan's presentation. I am opening a debate on this subject regarding this report. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you very much. Can we tell who it is to get the report adopted? Thank you very much. Unanimity. Ad.20. and the 21st item of the agenda. This is the point that we subsequently adopted The Information on the circumstances of Mr Ante Jalavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of respecting the law, the prescribed procedure and, possibly infringing human rights and fundamental freedoms We spoke and expected that someone from the Council of Ministers, as it were said, at the last session, at a joint session of both homes that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, on the moment he knew about it would say something and submit a report to the House. We were expecting and asking for someone to come or a competent minister or his aide, or, normally, the chairman of the House, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers. As far as I can tell, none of these people have responded, which I believe the joint services have asked the gentlemen to come, here's the secretary of this house Jadranko says they're at meetings and yes, that's why they didn't come. I am sorry, and now I ask my colleagues Croatian delegates or MPs one question. I'd like to discuss whether we're going to discuss this, or if we're going to look at the next session for a report of the appropriate people, because I have to say as a man that I can discuss on this subject and I only know so many facts, if these are facts, which I read in the daily press or heard and saw in the electronic media. But I don't think they're safe and they're real, they're facts, I think they're thinking again, or maybe even false information. I can't say that, but 56 I'm not even sure they're true. My knowledge of the ome is very weak. I only know that from the press. If you gentlemen know more to say we're discussing, that's it. Thank you very much. I don't know, I'd like to say that we're going to stay as home as we have so far, and the MPs who agree on everything, who understand each other, who so far are doing quality work together. I'd like to hear what you think we're going to do now. Here, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1926	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the last joint session of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 23 March. on Friday, when information is asked about, here are the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Mr Miroslav Prce and Mr Miroslav Rupčić's arrest. At the Saturday session, the present Mr Adnan Terzć, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Security, Mr Bariša Čolak, who then said they had very little, i.e. that they had no information about this event, and came to the conclusion after this debate. It is said that I have here with me, because I have requested a stenogram from this session that soon, as soon as possible, will give all the necessary information. How to date we have no such information, and I will read here from the stenogram what because Mr. Prime Minister's President, Mr. Terzić, said at this joint session. So what was logical, very correct was. So, any representative, any club or parliamentary establishment will get full information from the moment the information is received by the competent state authorities, it is primarily the Ministry of Security, which will be informed by the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers will forward that information to you to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It's very correct and I believe that this was and that it's true. So, to this day, no such information has arrived, no such information has been found. However, I believe that we as a home to the BiH Prlamentary Assembly should do our job, we should look for the truth, we should establish the truth. I suggest that we here today, that we have no grounds for discussion, so there is no new information. What he said, what we had the opportunity to see from the press and from the electronic media, is one part of that information. I think that we MPs and that the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, should have full and real information, in order not to speculate whether there have been violations of the law prescribed procedure regarding the deprivement of this Lord's freedom and whether there have been violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. I think this home needs to be determined. We do not need to libite all our rights, but also the obligations and I suggest that we form an investigative committee in this sph, which will determine all the circumstances and facts and which will submit to this home for observation and the adoption of our knowledge in the light of one information and give a deadline that would be. I also suggest that the deadline is not too long. I think this is current, because we need to know about this as soon as possible. Let's not forget. I will remind only of some facts, absolutely, I support, I think we all support and we are on the principle that the judicial authority is completely autonomous and independent and we do not want to interfere with this in the jurisdiction and business of the judicial authorities. 57 However, we believe that we have the right and obligation to determine whether there have been any failures in these actions of the arrest itself, whether it was necessary to do so in this way and whether there was a failure to do so. Also whether there were violations of human rights and the fundamental freedoms of these destroyers. I think it's our right and our obligation, and I suggested that we may be having a debate, but since we don't have any further information to focus and go towards forming a commission, which in peace will gather all the information and inform us without us having empty discussions here in the absence of arguments and real information.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1927	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. We heard Mr. Jukić's proposal and discussion. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1928	I just want to support Mr. Jukić's proposal, precisely why we don't have any additional facts. They would not engage in any debate based on what we have in public, nor is it sufficient, nor would we get the right picture. Of course, I feel that everyone is subject to the law that no one is above the law and that everyone has to be held accountable for their actions and that whoever committed the crime must answer. At the same time, I believe that everyone must have equal terms, therefore, absolutely equal terms and legal conditions for their defense and proof of their position and their innocence. In this sense, it would not be good to extend this condition to last, because then it can be politicized in very many ways and can be reflected in a very large number of activities that run into what day policy would say and some other important relationships, which we should never allow. We know well that in BiH it is very difficult to establish trust, very difficult to co-operate on certain issues, that many things are sensitive or we are hypersensitive to many things, and we can go to the space of politicization, we can go to the space that we are at risk of being unequal, etc. And in that sense, the only way to warn them is to have the right information, to ask everyone to act legally and to respect state institutions before and after all, but in two ways, one way to give them an opportunity and to support them when they work under the law and at the same time to respect those who were once in state institutions that they have the right not only to be treated equally but to all the way until someone's guilt is proved that they know they're not guilty. And for that reason, I believe that the formation of a commission is of benefit, with me not thinking it would be good to give her any authority and responsibilities that at this time neither need it nor belong to it, nor do we have elements because. We simply give her the task of investigating the facts of detention, detention, etc., and of course there are very simple issues in the public. Why is it that a person who appeared on subpoenas and made statements should be brought in at all by force, or why someone should be held in custody, if he was already two or three years old for 58 years, that if he wanted to disable the arrival of evidence or influence witnesses. As far as I know, these are two main and only reasons that justify detention during the investigation process. Of course, these and other questions are important and it would be good to get answers to that as soon as possible. I think it would be the commission's task, first and foremost, to get in touch with the competent state authorities and to get the information they own, and then to encourage the state authorities to look for information themselves that they haven't received so far. The fact is that in public it remains very incomprehensible and unclear as it is possible that even in the ministry that formally carried out the arrest and detention process, the Ministry of Malta did not know about the case and could not give more information. So, all this together, it actually feels a little bit more than just this case, but it lights up an ambience in which this case may have happened in some other cases, etc. So, by respecting the legality and responsibility of everyone before the law, and on the other hand by respecting everyone's right to be fair and equally treated by law, I believe that we need to form this committee and give it a task to do its job and to inform us of the results as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1929	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Do we have any further? Here you go, Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1930	Mr. President, honored MPs, if there was no one else to discuss this item on the agenda, surely the Croatian Club of Representatives loved that he got the real truth today, then surely these conclusions and this commission would not have formed. However, we have seen that there is no, and esteeming the barn of the same club, means the importance and size of this body, we have made a proposal for conclusions and I will read it slowly, so this body that we respect so as not to bring it into an awkward position. I would ask you to follow the suggestion of conclusions that you can comment, or give changes and additions to some. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples Official Messenger of BiH, No. 27/00, and given the specific question apparent in the fact that, in a very unusual and secretive manner, on Friday 23 January 2004, between 4: 30 and 5:15 p.m., Mr. Ante Jelavić, Mr. Miroslav Prce and Mr. Miroslav Rupčić were arrested in the early morning hours between 4:30 and 5:15 p.m., which resulted in the same day of the meeting of the joint session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Croatian MPs at the HDZ Club – Democrats and members of the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples asked the Council of Ministers for immediate information on the circumstances in which the deprivement of those persons took place. Since the required information by the BiH Council of Ministers has not yet been delivered to the BiH Prlamentary Assembly, the specific question mentioned implies a violation of human first and fundamental freedoms as the highest value to certain Article 2. The BiH Constitution, the House of Peoples at a session held on 28 January 2004, concludes on the basis of the 59th investigative commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in order to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić, Miroslov Prce and Miroslav Rupčić from the aspect of respect for the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the detainees. 1. The investigation committee makes up three members. 2. The Commission of Investigation, without prejudice to the principle of independence and independence of the judiciary in BiH, is obliged to establish the following: a. Is respect for the law laid down a procedure for the arrest of b. Was there a violation of human rights of fundamental freedoms in the arrest of 3. The aim of the investigation committee is to obtain sound and complete information, and to identify all external and decisive facts in close cooperation with the relevant institutions of the Federation of BiH and BiH, which are obliged to act on the request of the commission in relation to the assigned tasks of the commission. 4. The Commission will carry out the research for which it was established within 30 days at the latest and submit a report to the House during the same period. 5. Each member of the investigating committee reserves the right to request that his opinion be given in particular in the report. Six. Professional and technical tasks will be carried out by the joint services of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly during the work of the Foreign Committee. Seven. In the event that an identical investigative committee is established with the same task at the House of Representatives of the Commission of both homes can unite their work and submit a joint report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 8. This conclusion shall take effect on the date of its adoption. It is, therefore, a proposal from the Croatian Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1931	Thank you very much. The man's got a lot of wisdom. Here you go, secretary. Dear colleagues, we heard what our colleague Mr. Anto Spajić read to us. Does anyone have any objections? Anybody got anything to add here and let's hear the candidates' suggestions. First, let's hear it, this is the conclusion that requires the establishment of an investigative commission, related to the arrest of Mr Ante Jelavić, Mr Miroslav Prce and Mr Miroslav Rupčić. Who is it, for what Mr. Spajić suggested? Thank you. Unanimity. So, let's now propose members of the Commission in front of the House of Peoples. I think every nation should be one member of the commission. Here you go, Mr. Spasojević. The Chairman can't. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1932	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I propose Mr. Boško Šiljegović in ispred of the Serbian MEPs' klub.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1933	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1934	In front of the Bosniak Club, I suggest Dr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1935	Gentlemen in front of the Croatian club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1936	In front of the Croatian club we propose to Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-28-0.u1937	We've heard suggestions from our colleagues. So, Boško Šiljegovć, Halid Genjac and Mr Filipović. Do we agree with this proposal? Thank you very much. Gospodione Filipović, get the chart up, so we know that you agreed to Boško as well. So 11 for and 1 against. Thank you very much. This ended the 17th session of the House of the Peoples of the Prlament of BiH. I thank my colleagues for their cooperation, and I'd like us to always be this cooperative. The session is over at 4:10 p.m.
