ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15452	...guests, I am opening the 48th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow Members, as is common at today's session next to the MPs, our regular guests, representatives of international and non-governmental organisations were invited. I welcome them all on this occasion. According to a report by Parliament's service, 33 MPs are presently in the hall and we have the conditions for full-time work and full-time decision-making. For today's session, the absence was announced: Petar Kunić, who has certain health problems, is on the search, Dr. Nakaš announced that with a delay due to his duties at work he will approach this session and Mr. Mirko Blagojević announced his absence. This is what professional services are announced to be absent. The seat has a quorum. We have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. Before we move to the agenda, we have one previous question. As you know at last session, we have reached a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term in this home of Mr. Nikola Kragulj. Bosnia and Herzegovina's election commission is the mandate of MPs in this house, instead of Mr Kragulj, given to Mrs Dušanka Majkić. I suggest that Mrs. Majkić take on the House's solemn statement, thereby taking on parliamentary rights and obligations. I urge Mrs. Majkić to join in giving a solemn statement. Please all rise. I declare that I will knowingly take the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15454	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15455	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15456	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15457	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15458	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15459	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15460	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15461	Mrs. Majkić, on behalf of the House of Representatives and on my personal behalf, I give you my sincere congratulations on this solemn statement and I wish you many successes in your work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. [[APLAuz]] As usual, we had a session of the Colleges in an extended composition this morning, where, with the circumstances, we added a draft agenda with several points. You have received the updated draft agenda and have completed points 4, 5, 12, 13 and 14. Points 4 and 5 refer to the laws under procedure under Article 105, and we are obliged as an extended college to put them on the agenda of today's sessions. Point 12 is a logical sequence of events, after Mrs. Majkić made a solemn statement and her involvement in the relevant working bodies of this home. Point 13 is the appointment of three members in the joint coconut of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Tax Act on an additional value. Point 14 is the proposal for a conclusion on the reduction of deadlines for the discussion of the proposal for a law on the sales of goods and services and the proposal for a law on excise duties in BiH. This is the agenda agreed upon in the session of the Extended College. The College of this House was in the meantime after a session of the Extended College was completed by the Electoral Commission which was shared with you, which concerns the mandate of Mr Munib Jusufović and the College of the House of Representatives, which is to be declared by the House, because the Extended College did not declare it, because we received a letter after the College completed, shortly after the extended College was completed. The College, therefore, proposes that the 15th item of the agenda should also be a proposal for a decision to suspend the mandate to Munibu Jusufović, who you had here at the session last time. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15462	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have just come to the phone about this last proposal of yours. Namely, as the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been known to have been tasked with preparing an interpretation of the electoral law provision, on the basis of which the Election Commission has established, therefore, a position and a proposal, namely a consultation to stop Mr Munib Jusufović's mandate. 3 We had this at a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, since some members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there was not enough time to sort of prepare for it, we have extended it for today. We intended, therefore, to sit down today during this session to definitely formulate our position. This is more like information that you know that the Commission has done something about it, just understand. Of course, it is now up to the House whether it will wait or not for this report, the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15463	I thank Mr. Ćeman Mirsad for this information. Today is a session in progress, and you can certainly do that part of your job. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15464	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs, MPs, Jozo Križanović, asked the College to participate in today's session, today's session of the Council of Ministers' agenda on state and activities in reforms following the resignation of ministers in the Council of Ministers' Council. It's not accepted. So, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to run in front of this house for the agenda, by the name of, so, as I said. Information from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers on the state and activities of reforms following the resignation of ministers in the Council of Ministers. The reason for this part of the agenda, I think it's more than obvious. Unfortunately, the public is known, so I say fortunately that it is known, unfortunately, that a few days ago an objective Council of Ministers entered into something called the BiH government crisis in modern democracies. It came from the fact that the foreign minister, just as we learned from the newspapers, resigned and that the resignation was followed by the minister of transport and communication. Also announced are some other resignations announced, in addition to the government's apparent crisis in RS. I am now speaking from the point of view of general opportunities in the country. I think it would be most easy to say not to leave today's Parliament's session without getting the basic information from the Council of Ministers, not about the resignations, to be clear, not about the resignations, but about the state of reform and the obligations that this House and this Council of Ministers have undertaken, since the situation in which we are, I'm afraid, is leading us to the fact that the reforms are not being implemented in a way that, I suppose, all together, would like to, so in this light, Mr Chairman, I would ask that this point be placed on the agenda, and I think that it should be included in the agreement with the Council of Ministers Chairman, as soon as possible, but does not mean that it cannot be at the end when the Council of Ministers Chairmans agree this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15465	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how I conclude the debate on the agenda. I call on you to make a statement on the 15th agenda point as a proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office for Mr Munib Jusufović. 4 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I thank you. So with 23 votes to, with a sufficient entity majority, 2 votes against, the House of Representatives decided that the 15th item of the agenda of today's session would be a proposal for a decision to suspend MP Munib Jusufović's term of office. I thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has suggested that one of the agenda points of today's session, Mr. Lagumdžija, as I understand you today's session. We'll have a session on 29th Mr. Lagumdžija just so you know, but you said we should do it in agreement with the Council of Ministers' chairmanship. I would like to put Mr Lagumdžija's proposal on the statement, that as the 16th point, there be information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on Reforms in BiH, given the current situation with the resignations in the Council of Ministers. That's your agenda point. I invite you to plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 22 votes in favour, 8 votes against, with a sufficient entity majority, the 16th item of the agenda of today's session with the name as I read it and how you were informed. I just want to inform those present here from the Council of Ministers, from the cabinet of the chairman of Terzić, that Mr Terzić has informed himself that the House today has included in the work of the session and the 16th item, which reads: Informing the Presidency of the Council of Ministers on Reforms in BiH, given the latest resignations in the Council of Ministers, that the Mr Chairman, in the framework of his work obligations, is bound to make time and address this home when the agenda point comes to debate. I thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, you wanted a word. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15466	Mr. Chairman, I have suggested, I have no objection to being 16. I only suggested that, in the light of our Rules of Procedure, in principle, the Council of Ministers, we give our word to the agenda points when he or she wishes, regardless of the order, so that there should be this item of the agenda, I have no objection to being 16 but to be in agreement with the chairman of the Council of Ministers that I could not be later, because it is 16, so that whenever the chairman of the Council of Ministers is rated yes, and no later than 16.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15467	I thank you for your concern about today's session, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, therefore, the House has clearly accepted my proposal, that is the 16th item of the agenda, and within that item of the agenda chaired by the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers within the agenda have priority over Members, but this House manages its work and I have made it clear what I said, and you voted before I said what I said. Thank you very much again. I don't think there should be any excuse that we can't make it to the 16th point of the agenda, and if there are any obstacles by the Council of Ministers, then we, Dom, will decide again, of course, Mr Lagumdžija, all of this has been taken care of. The essence has been achieved here. Thank you very much. 5 Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I find that the House of Representatives has established the next agenda for two of today's 48th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome my colleagues, who have joined us in the meantime. Dr. Nakaš has just entered the parliamentary hall. 1. Book of the 47th session, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Taxation Act on the Transport of Products and Services by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. The Commission's request to achieve gender equality to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act in BiH institutions, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. MP Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Commission's Finance Report and Budget on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, 7. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Insurance of Forced Disposal of Assets, obtained by criminal acts and the management of seized property, with the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, legislators Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić and Zlatko Lagumdžija, 8. Proposal for a law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, civil servants and others employed in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, second reading, MP Momčilo Novaković, 9. Proposal for uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions, 10. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 30.6.2004, 11. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing the BiH Export Credit Agency, 12. Dušanka Majkić's election as member of the Administrative Commission and the Commission for Finance and Budget, instead of Mr Nikola Kragulj, 13. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Value Added Taxes, 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the reduction of deadlines for the discussion of the Proposal for a Tax Law on the Transport of Products and Services and the Proposal for a Law on Excises in BiH, 15. Proposal for a decision to suspend MP Munib Jusufović's term of office, 16. Information from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers on Reforms in BiH, following his resignation at the Council of Ministers. This is the agenda. We're going to work on the agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. A record from the 47th session of the House of Representatives you received. If you have any objections, I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. 6 Dear colleagues, I invite you to make a statement on the record. Vote now. Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 47th session, without any objections and thus absorbed the item on the 1st agenda. We're moving to agenda number two. Ad.2. The parliamentary questions and answers for this session were answered by only one parliamentary question, which is the Muhamed Moranjkić issue, set at the 44th session. Any comments? Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed mourns the word. You have the word, Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, from the attached answer to my question, which consisted essentially of two questions, I am giving the following comment. The first part of the issue concerned the announced purchase of radar equipment at the Sarajevo Airport and the use of 3.5m dollars for the equipment. I got an extremely strange answer, I don't think it's acceptable, I'd rather not say anything. It's only said that $3,360,000 was given to someone and they don't know where she ended up. In that response, it should have been said, and whoever negotiated it was not only the said word of the BiH institution. Since this state of BiH has dozens of institutions, I do not see from the answer which institution led the activity, on no account of which the activity was conducted, nor who paid two million and a half dollars, and then PTT shows up and pays another million of these Sadducees to the company, it is not known who gave the order, nor what paid that million dollars. Suddenly, the Presidency of this country appears and again unclearly how and why, and then the Council of Ministers, which is leading the contract into protocol, in order to cancel the contract after a few days, or put it out of force. The point of everything is unclear the whole procedure, and the clarity is that the money didn't come back and that they were sent somewhere, which I called Sadak, from this poor country to someone. I'm saying the money is gone criminally, because no one has answered my question how, why and why. I ask that this problem be placed at such a level as to involve the investigative authorities and the prosecution of this country and to find them and bring them back to this people. I think that this part of the question, so it's not answered, it means in translation that this question needs to be answered to clarify what I have pointed out to be unclear. The second part of the question is just a picture, as far as we're a state, that in just one year's time, from this sky of the BiH state, it goes to someone who's got as much money as we could do for this country, to train people, plus to hire people and be independent of someone in the environment to command our sky in both layers. I didn't ask this for a witch, I asked for action. First, to find money, and second, to take action to do this job, so that this country would be a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15469	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Before I give my word to the next speaker who wants to ask a parliamentary question, since there are no more answers and no comment, let me inform you, there are currently 38 MPs from 42, or 41 as far as we now have, because one is under suspension of the mandate and we need to declare this today. Thank you, Mr. 7 Moranjkić. Who wants to ask a parliamentary question? Mr. Adem Huskić answered first. Then let Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself. Mr. Huskić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15470	I have two questions, so I'll go first. Recently, in fact, on 6th and 7th of this month, a very large delegation from BiH visited the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, they were members of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy of BiH, and their colleagues from entity parliamentarians, who were joined by experts who assisted in the work of those commissions. The host was the chairman of the relevant council of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Jarnjak, and the delegation was also received by the president of the Parliament and the defence minister. At the reception of President of the Parliament and later at dinner our ambassador to the Republic of Croatia joined us. Eh, now during talks with the ambassador at dinner, I am uncomfortablely surprised to learn that our ambassador is not officially informed by our authorities, or the foreign ministry about the visit to this delegation, but that in some way private channels or by people from the Republic of Croatia are informed of this visit. I don't know if it's a practice or if it's a failure. If it's a practice, then I think it should be interrupted, and if it's not a practice, if it's a failure, then I want to know who's responsible, who's responsible, and when the Foreign Ministry will stop apologizing for their failures, because a month ago and I don't know how much, apologized for the things that are related to the death of a foreign citizen in Mostar for some of the failures. That's about it, first question. Second question or suggestion. I have here a rather extensive dossier from representatives of the three associations of businessmen from the upper vernacular region, meaning Bugojno, Donji Vakuf and Gornji Vakuf and Uskople, as regards the reorganisation of the Directorate for Indirect Taxation, i.e. the decision to abolish the customs office in Bugojn. They were addressed to various addresses, so far no one had responded or responded. He's asking the Department for indirect taxation. What he intends to do about their request, which is supported by the Central Bosnia Regional Economic Development Agency and, also supported by the joint conclusion of the three mayors of the municipalities mentioned. I note that this region is export-oriented, means there are much more export declarations than imports and in a situation where imports are covered by exports at a percentage which we know is, I think it is unacceptable to abolish customs offices and thus increase the costs of Mr. Chairman of export customs duties for a very difficult exporting economy.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15471	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. My comment did not refer to your question, just so you know. I apologize to you. I don't need to communicate, I need to listen while you're talking. You're right. Mr. Sead Avdić has his word, and let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15472	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow Members and gentlemen chairman, dear guests, I, too, want one question and one visit, simply asking that the College of the House of Representatives act according to Articles 47 and 48. The first question is will the BiH Council of Ministers finally put on the agenda and structure of the financing of seven Bosnian-Herzegovina institutions of culture? Will these seven cultural institutions be found in the 2005 Budget of BiH? 8 The crisis in the functioning of these institutions has long lasted and requires the Council of Ministers to take the necessary and urgent measures to resuscitate the situation in these institutions and to propose in 2005, legal projects that will eventually establish these institutions in BiH, with the Council of Ministers taking certain measures, having talks in Strasbourg, UNESCO has taken certain measures, etc. It is regrettable that bh simple authorities, the Council of Ministers remains unaware of what is happening in the seven bh institutions of BiH culture. Two, you remember your time group of MPs 15 who signed the thematic session of the House of Representatives and representatives of the OHR, along with the High Representative. I'm looking again, this is the third time and I'm not going to ask for it anymore. So, I'm looking for article 47 and 48 that the first January session is simply scheduled as a thematic session, meeting together with OHR representatives and high representative and representative of the House of Representatives. If the People's House wants to join, of course not, welcome, but I repeat once again three times more simply by Articles 47 and 48. I ask the Secretary of the House to take this into account for the request of these 15 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15473	I thank Mr. Avdić. I just want to remind you of the business obligation that what you say about the pay phone and the microphone should be written when the parliamentary questions are Wednesday and delivered, i.e. the services will come to you and take that written text. Thank you, Mr. Avdić, we will certainly take care of this for the third time again, at one of the next meetings of the Colleges. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15474	I thank Mr. Chairman, I am joining my colleague Avdić, and in a similar way I would like to ask this question complementaryly about what my colleague Avdić has asked. We know that a few weeks ago that MPs Selim Bešlagić and Mr Moranjkić referred a similar question, which was referred to by counterpart Avdić. In fact, my colleague Avdić and I probably wouldn't have had any reason to report that we got the answer if our colleagues had received the answer. Unfortunately, however, they have not yet received an answer. The reason why I'm doing this today, why I'm joining my colleague, Avdić, and I'm extending a little question is next. In fact, the public is well-known, and we all know that the High Representative in one de... has given us a lecture as a Parliament because of a law adopted here on the parliamentary majority proposal and has annulled that law, the Law of Compassionation with everything that followed. I am saying this because it would not and this message is a question there from the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to refer it to the High Representative as well to the BiH institution. In fact, I would not like us to be in a position to have the high representative give us a lecture again as this parliament has been silent because of the institutions of culture and the cultural heritage of BiH. It's more about cultural heritage than about institutions themselves. In fact, the High Representative today was able to see from some means of information, that the High Representative sent a letter to members of the Council of Ministers, in which, I paraphrasise from the occasion he said, that the question of cultural heritage is not only a matter of public services, but these are the vaults of the 9 cultural heritage of this country and of all its peoples. The documents and works of art that testify to the legacy are an invaluable part of European culture and are now in danger of being damaged because the conditions for their preservation have not been created. That's why my question of what the Council of Ministers is planning to do now at the preservation of not seven but eight institutions, so that the High Representative doesn't remind us that there's more, because he forgot that there are more, which are in the power of the state. Namely, to remind you, it is the Earth Museum, the Museum of Literature, the Art Gallery, the National and University Library, the Museum of History, the National Library for Blind and Disabling Persons and the National and Film Archive of BiH, and the eighth institution is also the guardian of the tradition and culture of BiH, called the BiH Academy of Science and Arts, as the eighth institution. How does the Council of Ministers plan to settle this in the 2005 budget? We need to remind them, Berize, in particular we need to remind the Council of Ministers because here we have a chance to communicate with the Parliament of the Council of Ministers, the High Representative and the advertising board in the media, through which the High Representative communicates. And in that light, the second question is, which I ask the Council of Ministers to pass on to the high representative who reads it. What the High Representative means to do if the Council of Ministers and this Parliament disobey his demands and this is, at the same time, an invitation to the High Representative to act unless we act.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15475	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I ask you that when you get the word then you address the House, do not communicate with each other or conduct dialogues. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs and MPs, I would like to ask two questions. First, does BiH, by the Council of Ministers' assessment, stress this today receive the same assistance from the international community, as well as countries of the same status in the closer and further environment? If he receives, what is the aid in terms of amounts and ads, and if he does not receive, do there be any knowledge of the reasons and the extent of these reductions, also in areas and in general, and what is the reason for this situation? And, second question, the letters in the materials again. I spoke of them in the last Parliament, but this time from the undisputed and respected high representative of Mr Pedi Eždaun. He complains to this parliament, at least so I understood this letter of his, that the unnecessarily and unwarranted gentlemen of the three finance ministers of the state and the two entities, not to appoint them, wrote them, begged that he himself, Mr. Eždaun, the high representative, use his powers and resolve them... and himself without them and this Parliament bring the laws that they were to pass and deliver to this Parliament. I don't accept that ball as a man and an MP, and I want to bring it out in public. I'm asking someone, and here you gentlemen in the College, can we get this letter from our ministers addressed to Mr. Eždaun so that we can complete such a mess, which is accompanied by the work of our governments and whether all of this is an attempt to intimidate this Parliament, that in these eight days, there are leftover laws, which were somewhere in the cabinets of ministers or the Council of Ministers, and when a new year came to the door, then the Joker, Mr. High Representative, tends to either adopt or threaten this House to do so for these eight days. My little loud comment, is this the Ministerial Council's car naked? Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15477	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Ms. Seada Palavrić answered the words, and let Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15478	Thank you very much. In a desire not to get legally acquired property taken from those who have acquired it by criminal acts, and to resolve more effectively economic disputes in BiH, I demand from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security of the Council of Ministers, that directly or through entity ministries or competent authorities in the Brcko District supply of courts, prosecutors, police, financial police and tax administrations of information that will systematise and deliver to this home about it. What number of measures taken to confiscate illegally acquired assets is now in circulation? What is the amount of money and what are these assets in things and, in accordance with what laws have they been taken away? Then, are there obstacles in the existing legislation to illegally obtaining property from those who illegally acquired it? Then, in what way and who manages the illegally acquired property, and is there a need and what are the opportunities for special economic units to be organised in specific or all BiH courts, or as it was done in Croatia, to establish special commercial courts and what kind of organisation would their organisation be, which would have the task of solving faster, actually solve economic disputes more effectively in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15479	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm asking you to follow the course of the session and you'll know what the point is and don't use your phone during the session, I'm asking you to turn everyone off, you won't need to go out then. Follow the course of the session and a little more attention and respect for the colleagues who discuss here. I follow you all closely and listen. I follow and listen closely, of course. I'm sorry, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, you have your word. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15480	I thank the chairman, firstly to take the opportunity to congratulate you on the presidency, to wish you a lot of success in your work and to thank Mr. Martin Raguž for the successful eight-month leadership of the parliamentary home. I have two questions and two, actually two comments with the question asked. In the post office that has been delivered to all of us, among other things, we have received two agreements and this House of Parliament is asked for approval for ratification. Those who have not carefully analysed are two agreements signed by Mr Avdo Hebib on 21 April 1996, as the authorised interior minister of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, I ask the question, not to slow down, indeed, the authority of Mr. Hebib, to sign the agreement at that time, but I ask the question after eight years of the first ratification process of what it means, or why we didn't get this before, whether these agreements were already in some way exceeded, whether changes were required, and if I know that changes in international agreements can only be carried out when the ratification process is over, it's really strange, let's just say that at the end of 2004, we get material 11 from '96. Was it something controversial, or was it really someone's negligence in the services they were supposed to forward to all the institutions involved in the ratification process? The second question, i.e. the comment also refers to one part of the post office that has been delivered to all, is a letter from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requesting the interpretation of the authentic interpretation of one law of the state of BiH, and the title is Public publishing company Education. Belgrade, address Lecanska 6, 3rd reported 6 through 3. I'm asking the question. Which of these parliaments can require authentic interpretation, i.e. what entities if they are outside BiH, is it logical that we do not receive mail through the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or Embassy in Belgrade or the Serbian-Montenegro embassy in Sarajevo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15481	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović for her congratulations. Thank you for asking. I expect that question in writing. The word is Mr Ivo Lozančić, and let Mr Vinko Zorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15482	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, My question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it concerns wine production and grape processing policy. We know that in the region, in many countries and regions and Europe, this legislation is regulated, I come to BiH, there is no law, and thanks to favourable conditions, moderate climate in a significant part of BiH, and land gaps are successfully grown by a number of varieties of vines, from which grapes produce all quality wines from salt quality to top quality. And if we have all the production conditions and we're doing production, but that's not regulated by law. I'm interested in when and if the state law regulates this matter? Therefore, a law should be adopted at country level governing the production, transport and processing of grapes for wine, the production and transport of wine and other products of grapes and wine, the distillation, labelling and protection of geographical origin, the control of production, the transport of wine and other fruit-based products. Irada and the management of wine cadastre and other issues important for the production and unique system of grape production and transport for wine, must and wine and other products of grapes and wine and fruit wines. In short, I repeat, the question. Do you think about when a law will be passed that's poisoning this matter at the state level, since I know that ethnicities don't have this law?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15483	I thank Mr. Lozančić. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić, and let the first deputy chairman, Mr. Nikola Špirić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15484	I have two questions, and if my questions are more about me being here, I never get my attitude, I don't get my answers, and if I get an answer sometimes I get something different from what I ask. 12 I am pleased that Mr. Huskić has asked one such question. Namely, me and my colleague, Živković, were in Sweden a week ago. And, from the service of this Parliament, I was duly informed that they knew in Sweden in our embassy that we were coming, but the consul, here I Matić, Željko think the name is private welcomed us, because the ambassador didn't even want to hear, in fact he was surprised that we were coming at all, because that day gave the Nobel Prize, as if we had come on a trip to Stockholm, and we were neatly invited by the Council of Europe Committee to attend the session, so that this man, by private car, had actually waited for me and returned to the airport, the ambassador had not even seen and the ambassador had been called to this consul by his words, I said here publicly, that we could also travel by train, that it was not a problem at all. But what's there is, my first question is. When and will the Council of Ministers and RES respond to BiH's memos and demands? In fact, there's already 2-3 years that several memos have been sent here. On no request, the letter is not answered, either positively or negatively. Secondly, are BiH citizens allowed to make statements on BiH's internal arrangements and on the position of constituent peoples or will BiH's residence be banned because of them? I'm asking this because I've heard from the MPs in this House that the same thing is being asked. I have heard before that the entire clubs at the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives are looking for a debate on the threat of one of the people and there have been no movement of these issues. I wonder if I'm going to say my position that one of any of the three constitutional peoples, on any issue, or that I, I think that BiH on the inside should be arranged one way or another, won or treated by some colleagues that I should be banned from staying in BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15485	I thank Mr. Zorić. I'm asking a question in writing. Mr. Nikola Špirić and then we'll close the list. Mr. Živković Milorad will prepare himself at the last minute and we will conclude the list. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15486	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, namely, I've been thinking about whether it's worth asking a question at all, because I think it's lost every sense, the way we get answers, but here's another chance to ask a few questions to the Council of Ministers. You know what kind of bile debate is being conducted when it comes to the law on higher education, about the TV system, the service in BiH, and it is about legal projects, which are a condition for BiH to successfully conclude the Association Atudijia and, does this mean a way of waiting as the state parliament is waiting, that there is simply no will, because we have been in a parliamentary debate, I would say almost close and send signals from its discussions to the Council of Ministers, which during which important legal projects could occur. I think the law on higher education is one of the most important laws for students in BiH, I think it is one of the necessary laws for the public to expect it. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers shows full inertness. It has been six months since the law, the law has not passed in the BiH Parliament, and we do not have a new text that should reconcile the different positions heard in the Parliamentary Assembly. It was also done by the Law on the TV System. I ask the Council of Ministers, at what stage is the draft of these laws, and will we soon be given parliamentary procedure to obtain these laws, or will we still have to wait for the office of 13 of the High Representative to warn us about what the institutions of BiH are? I don't want to talk sports law. Last night we had a wonderful event in which we promoted BiH's best athletes, and yes, unfortunately, the BiH state still has no law on sports. I took advantage of parliamentary law, so I proposed that law and I see different gymnastics within our committees, waiting for a better law to be proposed by the Council of Ministers. I don't mind the Council of Ministers proposing a better law, but at least suggest that we have a chance to discuss and compare those laws. Not to speak, and the restitution law, which is needed by both the public and the citizens of BiH, expect the law. I'm interested in when the Council of Ministers will come up with a proposal for these legal projects to ensure that essential matter is regulated legally. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15487	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Živković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15488	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the same seminar that Mr Zorić was talking about, the parlametarians spoke among other things and about this institution of questions and answers, and it happens in some parliaments that they do not get answers to questions, although it does not happen that there is none of the ministerial council to answer these questions and then they do the following, which I would suggest as a conclusion, rather than as a question of this Parliament. That all the questions raised so far, and not the questions answered, that these questions should be forwarded to the public through our service, and that is what I am putting to the vote as a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15489	I thank Mr. Živković. In this way, we have concluded the agenda of parliamentary matters. We're moving on to the next third item of the agenda. We cannot vote on conclusions within the parliamentary questions. It's a question of questions, and it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15490	The agenda point, and I have the right to formulate some conclusion. Did we once have a conclusion, when we talked about questions and answers and, then we said that all the issues that were not answered so far have been delivered here to parliamentarians and we voted that conclusion. If we could vote for the conclusion once, I don't see any reason not to vote for that conclusion again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15491	All right, all right. This is about parliamentary matters. That's why the conclusion is possible. And, here's a clue to Mr. Živković's proposal, I'm his proposal to conclude, will you repeat it again. Let me get that straight. I repeat the conclusion that we know what's being voted on. So, Mr. Živković suggests. That the Professional Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of the BiH House of Representatives, all issues, not answered questions, should be forwarded to the public through the Public Relations Service of this Parliament. Here, you heard. I'm not going to make any comment, but I'm going to ask you to make a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 I conclude that with 26 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention and enough entity majority, we have accepted this conclusion and let the sekretarijat of the parlametnaran Assembly take care of the adopted conclusion. We're going to the third item of the agenda, if we can have a business, go ahead. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15492	Mr. President, with the beginning of today’s session, it was said that a meeting was scheduled at the College, or meeting of our home for December 29th. I'd like to ask if we can get the agenda for this session during today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15493	Thank you, Mr. Jović. The agenda will only be two points of the agenda, these emergency points of the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act, only that will be the agenda, but we'll talk about it when the 14th point of the agenda. He has a proposal for a conclusion. There will be a discussion about this request. We'll give you a detailed explanation. Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues, for asking questions. We're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Taxation Act on the Transport of Products and Services by an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure here are just a matter of procedure. There's nothing to discuss here. No problem, Branko. It's better for you to intervene, even wrongly, than for me to miss something wrong. Don't be, everything's fine. I call upon you to plead. In order to establish a shortened procedure under Article 104 or an emergency under Article 104, that is to say, a shortened procedure for this law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that unanimously, to see whether it is unanimous, there are 35 votes for no votes against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we adopt this proposal by the Council of Ministers and have laid down the procedure under Article 104 for the Law on Product and Service Taxation, which, of course, will again be the subject of this 14th point of additional reduction, which we have already talked about at the Enlarged College, and also in the opening part of this session. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Commission's request to achieve gender equality to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH institutions' labour law, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure The material for this point was delivered to you on 15 December. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to participate in the debate? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović called and she has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15494	I would like to warn of a potential problem, not to slow down, really an opportunity to make adequate changes in all the laws in BiH, which regulate this area. We have a law on working in BiH institutions, which we foresee between the other and a certain length of the length of the maternity leave of 15. It can happen to us that, at the state level, all those who work in BiH institutions have maternity leave for example. of a year, and those who do not work in BiH institutions, but elsewhere, for example. in the institutions of the Federation, canton or certain business entities, the maternity leave shall be shorter or longer. I propose that this law go into normal procedure and that when adopting such provisions do not slow down, indeed the need to regulate this, make an insight into the regulatory length of maternity leave within BiH at all levels of government and bring it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15495	So, the debate is about procedure. Who wants to talk more? I almost called you, so I saw you weren't answering. Mr. Jozo Križanović, but you signed up anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15496	I thank Mr. Chairman, I would like very briefly to remind us that, at the previous session of this House, we have discussed a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, where the subject of the amendment and addition was two articles. One was this article on maternity leave and another on benefits for severe disability and serious illness for family members employed in BiH institutions. I would like to remind you that in this debate no one had any objections to this Article 30, if I recall correctly, regarding the length of maternity leave. Therefore, in order to achieve gender equality at its last session, the Commission unanimously established this bill and, in view of the shortness and to say this complexity of the law, proposed that it be considered under Article 105, in order to correct discrimination against women employed in the state institutions of BiH, and to correct this law, a certain injustice against these employees and to allow greater protection of children and motherhood. I appeal to the House that it is, indeed, a single law, a simple application and, unanimously, by the Commission for Gender Equality in BiH, I say guided, above all, by the protection of child and motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15497	I thank Mr. Joza Križanović. Who else wants to talk? Ms. Ljiljana Milićević, then Mrs. Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15498	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I want to say as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality in fact that we did not bring things back here, but we were trying to correct the gap that occurred, I think in June, July, when the Labour Act was adopted in BiH institutions, when we simply consider this a failure, because entity laws were given women maternity leave after 12 months, so we only have women employed by joint institutions that have six months maternity leave. We simply return them to the same position with women who work in other organs in both entities. So, our women are the exceptions that are employed in joint institutions and we think this is very important, especially for those women who have been found with it and are really not in an equal position and, with that 16 we all supported the 105 unanimous procedure, I don't think there's any reason not to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15499	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, then Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15500	Thank you very much. So I have to notice that for me this law does not qualify that it is not complex. In order, therefore, to meet the conditions laid down in Article 105. It's hard to talk only about procedure, because this is the point. For me, the question is, what about such a provision, therefore, about the possibility of employees in BiH institutions and, if this law applies to both MPs and MPs in the Parlametary Assembly of BiH, but what are the opportunities for the maternity leave to last 12 months. That's one side of the problem. The other side of the problem is that we must finally achieve that in all of BiH, each person has the exact same rights. I have no information on how this issue has been resolved at entity levels, Brcko District, any institutions, legal persons, etc. The bigger problem is that I don't have an answer to the question here. What provisions are laid down by the Labour Act? Labour laws applicable to employees in institutions, employees in the economy, private employees, so, those not administration? Not financed from the budget or financed from the budget, but not subject to these laws that are more favourable to the administration. I believe that the maternity leave in BiH must be arranged in the same way, for, absolutely every person, whatever law goes on leave and, wherever the economy, out-of-business, administration, education, etc. These are questions I need an answer to before I could say yes or no to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15501	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15502	Obviously, we lack that information so that we can sort of define ourselves with full conviction. I think it's here, that we have two kinds of problems here. So, I respect the full initiative of the Administrative Commission that the deadline, i.e. the length of the maternity leave, is uniform. Or yes, for gender equality, so I completely understand. However, there is another side of the medal, another dimension, it is financing the absence. As far as the Health Insurance Institute admits, as many employers as it is, it's differently arranged in BiH and I think we should, I suggest that the Proposer move to 104 or to correct his request to go to 104 so that we can sort of do these two principles. What's the point? The goal is to get as close to the family as possible. I don't know maybe Mr. Špirić wasn't informed that father could take maternity leave, of course. So, to bring into an equal position all the families in BiH, i.e. families, who have a new one. That's the reason. I'm giving this to the promoter, maybe we should go to 104. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15503	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15504	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me that this change of law after 105th does not interfere with any other law or labour law, and especially with the entity laws in RS, I know that this has been settled in the Child Protection Act and it has been there for 12 months. We are merely setting an example here in the BiH institutions, that it is 12 months and we are not keeping anyone in mind that on entity, cantonal and at any level it also makes maternity leave 12. So, we don't touch and we don't get into other laws. We set a good example that in BiH institutions it is 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15505	Thank you, Mr. Milorad Živković. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15506	You see, I want to, actually, I wanted to replicate a little bit more, so I held back a little bit. We have come up with a proposal for a law amending the Labour Act in BiH institutions. This law applies, meaning the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, refers to a relatively small number now I will say, possible users. So, people. This is Mrs. Palavrić, who, with respect, would now regulate it all the way to Brcko. The institutions of BiH, a certain number of people, the laws that labour laws exist in both entities and the Brcko district, where it says 12 months is a maternity leave, gives for both the right and the father, that is, the wife to go, so it can do this, it's all beautifully written. We've given this, so just as a way for one right, a mother's right, and we're full of stories about how we're losing our population's small population growth, to give these potential mothers, who work in joint institutions the ability to use maternity services for 12 months, not to make some new labour laws and not see the need for a big story, are we going to say what we're going to change right now? I mean, the only suggestion is that instead of six, it's 12 months. I mean, I don't see the need for procedure 104. So are we going to say that it shouldn't be but 9 to be, to meet in the middle, or to even these women with women in the environment? It's a question, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15507	Thank you. Mrs Palavrić called for the replica, so let Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15508	So I really didn't say anything. I asked, and I didn't get the answers to the question. I'm asking again. How long is maternity leave in business, in factories, in private? I beg you, I just want to be written to be told that in the economy of all BiH, every private woman who works behind the machine has a maternity leave of a year. Because he's entitled to maternity leave for a year. If you prove it to me, I'll take it. I can't vote for a law in which whoever is really harder is creating funds for the budget has the right to less maternity leave than the one who's on the budget. Convince me it's the same, I'll vote now for, but I didn't say, I'm just asking. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15509	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. Let Mr. Mladen Potočnik prepare himself. I've already given my word and the man's up. You'll wait, if you were right earlier, but I don't want to get the MP back to sit down again. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. You're having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15510	I'm a little surprised at my colleague, Seadi, if we're discussing the law. We're discussing the procedure now. I'm going to make my point on the law, and I'm going to say it on my own personal behalf, and I hope I share the Club's opinion that I support the procedure and that we're going to make a statement first on the procedure, because I have something to say about this law, too, so I wouldn't be using that opportunity right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15511	Thank you. The replica was answered by Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Replication to Mrs. Palavrić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15512	Yes, your technique is not working. It's not working. Or you're not calling in a replica. That might be another question. To prove it, Mrs. Sead, if you're interested in it, it's written in all the laws of entity and others, and why it should always prove something to someone in this House. It's a very simple change of one item in this law. I don't see any need to complicate and now we're wasting time on some unnecessary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15513	I don't know if this was a replica. Who wants to talk any further? Mrs. Mara Perkanović. Here you go. Mrs. Marija Perkanović, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15514	I respect the corrections. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to welcome the Commission's decision to amend this law, because, indeed, looking from the point of view of the rights of the child and from the point of view of the right of the woman to maternity care is six months insufficient for adequate care of the child, and also for the recovery of the woman and her recovery of her further work. I was surprised by the little discussion by Sead Palavrić, who, of course, is heading in the direction that something is wrong and is not in line with the other laws on BiH premises. Since this is not about the adoption of a new law or a special law on work and working relations in BiH, but about the amendment of the law, the existing law in the institutions, I see no reason to have such a debate at all, and I propose and appeal to all of you to accept procedure 105, thus showing good will to care for our children and our mothers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15515	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. Does anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement, but before that, there was a call from a fellow promoter to consider 19 possible change of procedure from 105th to 104th. I'm just asking Mr. Krinažnović if he stays at the proposed procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15516	Well, I don't think, as President of the Commission, I have the right to change the procedure when it is exclusively a unanimous request and the Commission's conclusion on the proposed procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15517	So, you're staying at the procedure. That's enough for me just to be able to move forward with the session. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a plea. We are voting on a procedure under Article 105. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that the majority of votes 31 in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions, are sufficiently subject to the procedure, related to Article 105. Let's just go to the text of the law. I will now open a debate about the text of the law itself. Who wants to talk, though we talked about it, but we have to do it. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15518	I'll just say it very briefly, because he's short too, that I support this law so that if this one, if the situation were different, I'd replace 12 by a larger number. Of course, it's procedure 105 now. It's impossible to change anything now, I'm just saying, if it were possible I would certainly replace this number 12 with a larger number, dark and reduced income, etc. as it is in the Western states of Europe. I can only express regret that there is no one in this commission from the HDZ and that we have not contributed to such a quality law. Congratulations to the Commission on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15519	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'd ask them to give me a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15520	The word has the chairman, counterpart Šefik Džafrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15521	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Belkić, I can't take my word for it, and I have to go out here for a pay phone, so it says in the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think there's anyone in this room that would mind the maternity leave in all of BiH, for every person, paid leave takes 12 months. I think we all share that opinion. There's only one problem here, we've talked about BiH institutions so far, and we've talked about entity institutions and people who are employed in these institutions. I am not sure how the issue of maternity leave has been arranged for many, in many economic organisations, in a number of 20 BiH entities, and these issues have been regulated by entity laws and therefore I have decided to vote against the procedure under Article 105 because I wanted to come to that information in a brief procedure. But now it's the way it is. Procedures were adopted at 105. I will, of course, vote in favour of the law, but I would like to propose one conclusion to Dom, and that is, when we adopt this law, we will also adopt a conclusion, in which we will propose to entity governments and entity institutions that this issue be evened for all persons in the entire territory of the BiH state. I think it's something we should do minimally when we pass this law. That would be a recommendation from this House. I would like this parliament to pass one law that regulates it for all, but it is obvious that we now have the situation that we have when it comes to jurisdiction, but no one prevents us from adopting a conclusion with this recommendation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15522	I thank my colleague, the chairman, for his replica, a colleague named Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15523	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you exactly, given that I dealt with the team while I was and in the National Assembly, what is being done in the entity of the RS. The Labour Act provides for 12 months. The Child Protection Act also provides for a way to do so. The first four months are paid by the employer, the other eight months are paid by the Child Protection Institute. So it's definitely settled and we don't need to invite now the RS entity to change something in that law, because it's definitely solved and applies to everything, whether they work in institutions, whether they work in a factory, whether they work in a edifice. So that's the problem solved. This law, practically in BiH, brought BiH institutions into line with entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15524	I thank Mr. Živković. I'll have a little short replica. You and I don't have any conflicting opinion on this matter at all. The conclusion should be, if that's not how we adopted it, we recommend that you adopt it this way. Therefore, those who have already done so did not have to recommend anything to them in that direction. Mr. Belkić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15525	It's not much of a discussion, it's also giving some information. Here we heard, so four months plus eight months. In the Sarajevo Canton, for example in the Federation, there are again health insurance institutions, namely canton-level laws, except that there are federal regulations. For example, in the Sarajevo Canton, the first six months of paying for the Health Insurance Office, the other six months are recommended to the employer. It wasn't possible to make him pay for six months. And, say, Alhos, the milkman, etc. They don't pay. So, I just checked in when I was talking about the unfair position of maternity care. That was the essence of the discussion. Of course, we, as far as the duration of the sick is concerned, are not disputed, but the question of funding and payment is raised. How to try to even the position and position of the maternity family. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15526	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. Just a little quiet, please. We'll take a break if we need a break. May I have your attention, please? The first vice-president, Mr. Nikola Špirić, called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15527	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. Here it clearly and accurately writes the draft law amending the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, according to an urgent procedure. If someone needs justice here for why they voted against, they won't be angry with my colleague, Šefik Džaferović, then this conclusion makes sense. But here is precisely the proposal for a law amending the Labour Act in BiH institutions. If there's a point of the agenda alignment, then we'll open up the debate and see where it's regulated, what's the best model, etc. So let's not make politics out of this, but to refer to the agenda point. So the proposal was adopted, the procedure of article 105, and the proposal is 12 months. Somewhere it is, somewhere it isn't, but this is done in BiH's government institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15528	I thank Mr. Špirić. Here, I won't replicate. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15529	He's right, Mr. Špirić. But there's this other side of the medal. Who's paying for these 12 months, Mr. Špirić? Who pays? There is no BiH Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15530	Of course you can. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15531	I don't think we really need to ask each other these questions. I say we stick to the agenda. It is known how BiH authorities are financed. You know, if there's going to be a change through indirect taxation, it will be safe and it will come to the agenda. So now it's a system of concessions and a part of the original revenues that the state has. When we change the law, we will rise very quickly, and that will be defined. But he's right there, but we can't solve it this way through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15532	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15533	Well, I'm just looking for a word to help out a little bit. counterpart Belkić is right to ask this, but it is known if the employer pays four or six months, then it is an institution here, the BiH institution. If it is healthy, if I have a residence in the municipality of Gruda in Sovici, then the county health insurance is paid from here. So if it was a person from that county, he'd pay for that health care. No one else can, anyone who enjoys contributions to that category. Just a little 22 to comment on the conclusion that the chairman is, I agree with one such conclusion, but he needs to go more in the direction, because we know what the law is, that executives enforce the law. I think that Seada's discussion just now, when it comes to the procedure of whether they are receiving in the economy, whether they and they are, is more about implementation, the legislator is clear. We can, in conclusion, order all institutions, executives to implement the labour law and give the right to parents, in accordance with the law, the right to maternity leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15534	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić. Who else wants to talk? May I have your attention, please? If no one answers their word anymore, I'm the one who concludes the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the text of the law itself. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives by a majority of 34 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority passed this law. I now put my proposal to the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Then don't prepare the voting technique. Let me just say it again. So, that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives recommends that the entity authorities, as well as the cantonal authorities, be advised that the issue of maternity leave, if it has not already been done or not done, be regulated in this way in the manner that this law has been governed, which we have now complemented. That's what my proposal concludes. I'm putting it to a vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So, here's the deal. The conclusion has a general majority, 24 for, 4 against, 8 abstentions. The Federation has a majority. There is no entity majority from RS. We're going to get a match. We'll leave a colleague, Špirić, for the next session. Okay. The law has been passed. We're moving on. We'll agree on this conclusion. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. MP Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law were delivered to you by fax of 16 December O.G. It is also a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the text of the law itself, and his proposer, the first vice-president, Mr. Nikola Špirić, comes forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15535	Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult here to separate the story of the procedure and what is required as a change, but here, when there is time, sometimes I read the laws that we have adopted, I want to say that this law is also about the unseriousness of the promoters and, unfortunately, these things promote both the home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If the law was to be followed, which was passed, this law here changed the value system in BiH, for the reason I assume that outside experts tried to help the Council of Ministers, but free of charge when they do not have the obligation to read the law they receive from the 23 expert groups from outside. And, here, you'll see I'm only proposing one change. There's no other way, except for emergency procedures, because it can happen that someone maliciously chooses an offer, which has been evaluated by the lowest grade, and thus gets himself a great benefit without being prosecuted by law. That is what the text of the law, which, unfortunately, has been adopted and which is in application, says Article 34(2). The contract shall be awarded to the successful tenderer, who has submitted the lowest estimated acceptable bid, in accordance with the point and this. Our lowest score is the worst offer. There are countries where the value system is reversed and that, by any chance, if the minister had proposed in a government in Europe, he would have already been called the former minister. Unfortunately, we have to read the laws we receive from the Council of Ministers well, and I once said that the condition is that we discuss the laws so that at least ministers read the law, which deliver to this Parliament and ask for an emergency procedure so that there are no consequences in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15536	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15537	I will make a little joke at the beginning of the discussion, i.e. the explanation of the proposal for the law of fellow Špirić. He says he reads adopted laws sometimes. I hope he reads the laws before we adopt them. Namely, I answered for the next one. This seems to be a question, in which this parliament needs to be properly answered. However, it seems to me, however, that here more is the word to use the possible correction of the language nature or the translation of the very text of the law. We, unfortunately or happily, know where some laws are, and even these here, but if there's an opinion here that this is a better way, I'm not against it either, I just really think there's what's right to call a raciolegis, right? What was raciolegis is not at all a problem to interpret and what was wanted, even by the formula that spoke the lowest. It can be confusing and that is why I think the word is a problem in translation from one of the origins of the beginning, rather than, in fact, the legislator's intention to choose the worst solution. But I don't want to confuse this now. I just wanted to put this out simply so that maybe, as far as the procedure itself is concerned, sometimes it would make more sense to correct what it is, when it comes to technical error, than if I was going to change what might actually not need to be changed, but actually correct it or explain it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15538	Who else wants to talk about this? If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Please prepare to vote. We are voting on a procedure under Article 105. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the 26-vote House of Representatives has adopted a procedure under Article 105 against and without abstention. 24 Now prepare yourselves to vote on the very text of the law. Prepare to vote and vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15539	I'm down to most of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15540	Just a little bit, no comment fellows. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority passed the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report on the attempt to reach an agreement on the Commission's Finance Report and Budget on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Indirect Taxation System in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer Momčilo Novaković) is about a respected colleague and colleagues that we had this law in the procedure and that the competent commission expressed itself negatively under this law and we voted last time on a report by the competent commission which did not recommend that this law be adopted. Last time we didn't have enough entity majority for the Commission's report. The agreement on this matter has not been reached and I will read to you what was written here in this text, a reminder for the session. Therefore, if the consent of the House is reached, it shall be notified and found that a report of the Commission on finance and budget has been adopted, as well as that of the proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system has failed. If no agreement is reached, which is the situation, the report in the second round shall be voted on in accordance with Article 64(4). Rules of Procedure. The decision shall be taken by the majority of the total number of Members present who shall vote on the condition that they vote against shall not contain 2/3 or more Members elected from each entity. In the second round of voting, the report was adopted unless 2/3 of MPs from one entity voted against. If the report is adopted, the law has fallen. If the report is not adopted, the Commission is obliged to draw up a new report based on the new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. So, briefly and clearly, we are now voting together on the Commission's report, on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote and vote now on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15541	Here so there's no confusion. Just to explain to the MPs. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15542	Please, it looks like they've got it all right. That's enough. So this is how the Commission's report has a general majority. 26:3. 26 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. 20 from the Federation and no entity majority from RS, and now we're going to the opposite vote. I call on all MPs who believe they should vote against but only them to vote against the Commission's reports, against the Commission's report. dati will signal that those who are against the Commission's report vote. Prepare to vote and vote now. So like this, 7 is against Republika Srpska. That's less than 2/3. A Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15543	Can I just have a minute?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15544	You can, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15545	I'd like, of course, to just make it clear which way. So I don't mind, the House's decision is valid, it's been made clear to her as we have spoken, only that, to make it clear to the public. Last time, the proposal to tolls, so road charges, were part of it, since it was agreed to the entity budget, did not receive support from the Federation, and this is the kind of management that is against, who is for the report, an entirely different impression can be obtained. And last time it was and there was a voter's protégé. So I don't mind, no matter how you plead, it doesn't match mine, but just for the record, because these are the things you're going to talk about when it comes to the structure of income both state and entity. And I think it was things that were consistent, but unfortunately, or fortunately, the will of the state parliament is like that, just so we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15546	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. I don't think there's really a need for us to open the debate again in a clear situation, because you don't dispute it either, and there's no need to talk about the text itself after the vote, so it's quite clear. There are no 2/3 MPs from one entity in the opposite vote. So 2/3 and then considered in reverse, this isn't a normal regular vote, it's a reverse vote. Then the document is thought to have been adopted. That's what we've been doing so far, and I don't think there's any objections here. I find that
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15547	They say it's not a normal vote. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15548	Yes, well, the reverse vote, of course, that the Commission, that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a report by our committee in charge on this matter. We move to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Violation of property acquired by criminal acts and the management of the seized property with the Report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission (the legislators are Members Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić and Zlatko Lagumdžija) You have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as responsible for considering this legislative proposal. As you have seen, the Commission has not supported the principles of the proposed law and, nevertheless, the Commission has concluded that the conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure have not been met, and that it is not necessary to pass this law. In line with the conclusion of the procedure, when the Commission's report negatively explained its position extensively. We now, ladies and gentlemen, as with the bill from the previous point of view, have a situation that the report from the committee responsible is negative, and in that case we follow the conclusion of the House that we adopted at the 38th session of 9 June 2004. So according to this conclusion, the committee's report was placed on the agenda of today's session. I will remind you this time of the provisions of points 2 and 3 of that conclusion. Point 2 reads - if the House accepts the report of the committee responsible from the previous point, the proposed law is also considered rejected under 3. - unless he accepts the committee's report, the House will ask the competent commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines set by the House and within the time limit set by the House. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15549	My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I am authorized to give, if necessary, an additional or blonde explanation in front of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is most of the votes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any need for that, but I just decided to point to two or three things. The first is, therefore, a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission in writing, the chairman of the office said that he was ensnared and could have been more extensive, but we felt that it was simply not necessary. Second, in the meantime, we have also received a response to this report from the legislator so that one and the other texts can be read and, of course, take a fair and correct view of conscience. Third in what has been discussed on the Commission so far, which I will say unfortunately and in public things have been set up the following way. Who is in favour of the bill, which means practically who is in favour of forming an agency as an administrative body that would work on it, and it is against crime, corruption, etc. And the counterthesis that is against the law, that is, who is against forming an agency with the belief that there are other competent authorities who are already working and should be working, it is for crime, for corruption 27, etc. etc. Although that is said in the written explanation, I will still only comment that these are very general and even political thesis. Neither one, nor the other stand, and simply the Commission has not considered this proposal from that point of view. The Commission has noticed, and this report says that the basic issue and the basic principle of this law, and the law is of organisational nature, whether or not one new body, one agency, is one administrative organisation that would do the same job for which they are, and that is, who, in short, is in charge and compulsory and paid by other authorities. So, all disagreements, I am responsible as chairman of the Commission on behalf of the majority to say in the Commission, therefore, on behalf of the Commission I say they are related to the sodom. Not in the range of whether or not to sanction criminals, whether or not to confiscate illegally acquired assets, etc.itd. It's a technical matter. There are some printing mistakes, I hope you've seen them and you'll appreciate the fact that unfortunately, that's what's been subdued. And since I have already taken the floor and after reading the answer of my colleague, therefore the Commission's proposal says that the Commission is amazed at the qualifications that it is crime, that for crime it is one who does not think, I think about qualifications etc. I would also say that we should not simply understand our report in this way. At times, we too were amazed at the qualifications of those who simply felt that we did not need a special agency. I therefore call for the commission's report to be accepted, of course, with the belief that other authorities and we've counted who they are, and who's interested in taking a further look at all these laws, to do their job, and that one new body of the administration is increasing the administration, a new body that would do what others are doing is simply not needed. I'm making a difference between what the Commission is and that's what I want to point out are the points of view it's taken. We are in one place, and in response to fellow legislators of the law, we have just said that it was really in the debate of those who recognized in one of these proposals, either they were afraid, or they simply saw traces of something called revolutionary legislation in theory of something that the principle of assumed innocence of twists, so it advocates the principle of presumed guilt, etc. So these are just some information from the debate, but it's simply an illustration of how everything is perceived by this law or advocacy for the solutions that are listed in it just as we have witnessed how someone perceives and possibly the opinion of those who consider it not to be simply a new agency. He's perceiving it in a way that they say you're advocacy of crime or corruption. I point to this for the simple reason that the Commission is and this is simply said there in the report and I will end up with the obligation under the Rules of Procedure to assess the principles, whether the law is necessary and whether this is being improved by the legal system. So we have a calm conscience based on what our mission has answered these three questions. That's what the report says. I hope that you have read the report and that you will simply keep in mind everything that is stated in that report and all that you can and should have when you decide whether or not any law should be passed at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15550	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. I would once again like to call on all the distinguished colleagues and colleagues for attention. The concentration's obviously dropping. After this part of the agenda, we'll take a break. So, please, let's just bring this item to the end of the agenda and please give me one more attention. Mr. Tihomir Gligogorić has asked for a word and has a word. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15551	Mr. Chairman, I would also like to wish you successful work on leading the House of Representatives today and in the future. I want my colleagues and colleagues to say, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Mr. Ćeman said today something that was actually not a speech on the Constitutional and Legal Commission itself. In this comprehensive report, as it says, on page 2, where the Law says it is not necessary to adopt for the following reasons and quotes all the laws and especially the Brcko District, almost the whole side is committed to this, there was no absolute word on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, except that it spoke positively of the legislation and it stands. It is obvious that, after the Commission's work was completed, I made a report and gave that tone or formulation that he wanted to support facts that were not meant by the Commission itself. This can be easily compared from the stenograms we run, and in this way I just want to draw attention, it can also be a false assumption that in this case it should be taken into account when the Commission concludes and that what is authentic, original, etc. It should also be reflected in the very report coming to the House of Representatives, not to give a personal note, or after learning about some important issue when you go home to the Commission and sit down and come the day after tomorrow and make a report and therefore step back from the Commission's position. It's just one of my interventions that can serve later in the debate about this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15552	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Ćeman, the president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is looking for a word for replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15553	I'm sorry, of course, that I have to answer in this way. kolega Gligorić, we will look at the stenogram if necessary, you are not a lawyer, and rightly there is one qualification that says positive legislation. And positive legislation means applicable legislation. In particular, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the state law to the municipal council, which therefore makes the rules positive and valid. The debate therefore called for a positive current legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to regulate this issue to be an effective fight against crime and corruption, and since the conclusion is mandatory to make an explanation when the argument is written, then more or less, depending on the assessment now, of course I could have written on behalf of the Commission for a 115-page explanation. This is what I decided to be the one for some, here's four pages. Therefore, this is all within the framework of what has been said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's interested in getting a stenogram from the Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15554	Thank you. Here's the answer to the replica, right? Mr. Gligorić, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15555	When I say positive legislation, otherwise that term will be done, among other things I am also a lawyer, but well, that doesn't matter now. If you have legislation in one country, that legislation, so I doctorate political sciences, so, positive legislation, you have legislation in one country, you have it or you don't have it. It is, there is no need to speak at all about positive legislation, but I just wanted to say that, like when the records and reports of the commission must reflect the authenticity of the debate itself and certain conclusions and there was no wording by name about the laws that regulate that area at the levels as it is said here, nor the quoting of official messengers as it is said, nor the quoting of a particular law. If all that was said there, I really wouldn't have the need for intervention. So I want to point out that obviously later knowledge, the ex-post mind, the subsequent thinking is actually the result of this report. And that's not good. I also don't say much sometimes at a certain point. I remember later that it would be important, but it's past time at a given moment, so it's concluded. Therefore, I say that the chairman gave a personal tone and a personal projection to members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And it can be leveled. Now talk about terms, concepts of law, etc. I have a feeling that the essence and content of some intention is hidden in the sense of writing a report to suit an individual or any political option. Here's my right to such an attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15556	Maybe I'll just help you out a little bit. You probably mean the positive right when you talk about it, not the positive legislation, right? Then we can talk about it, because I can't as a lawyer and resist this kind of debate, I apologize. Mr. Jozo Križanović came to the floor. Let Mr. Mladen Potočnik prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to say that there is really no reason why the SDP Club legislators are unnecessarily bothered for the second time by this proposal. It is not a particular interest of the party, but we are convinced, we are deeply convinced that this is a major social problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina for which an effective means should be found. Last session of this house also discussed our resolution to postpone the decision of the military police forces and other officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in peacekeeping missions and the House was determined on the Commission's opinion on the resolution that the resolution was not in line with the existing legislation. Here we have and now we have a comprehensive one, which in one sentence was, fortunately, we now have a very comprehensive report from the Commission on page four trying to challenge the need to pass such a law. I must say that I highly appreciate the efforts of the President of the Commission who gave a broad explanation, but I must agree with my colleague Gligorić that it does not essentially paint the debate on the Commission itself. Of the 4 pages of this report, pages 3 are dedicated to commenting on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. And in our answer, let me just remind you that this is completely unnecessary and that we fully agree with this comment of the law and that we consider the adoption of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Court of Justice to tell Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. It was necessary to discuss such a bill today. This law is addressed to Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislation as we have said. According to this and more arguments is absolutely unnecessary, because it deals with the comments of these laws which we say were preconditions for the adoption of this law. In fact, the actual reasons for the rejection of the law are contained in points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Commission's reports. I think it's scandalous and non-legislative that these labels are directed to the promoters, to their colleagues, such as, in our law, we're going from our assumed guilt. Please allow yourselves, so we refer you to Article 2 of the Law, or Section 3. The law on criminal, criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which states that – the Court can also take away the benefits of Article 1 in a separate procedure if there is a reasonable reason to believe, beware that it is believed that the benefit of obtaining a criminal offence, and the owner, i.e. the user, is not able to provide evidence that he does not benefit from obtaining the law. Is that in accordance with the law? How's it... not putting anything in advance to say presumption of guilt. Keep going. The Commission has noted, therefore, that the specific oral arguments of the promoters inclimate more of the concept of the Nationalisation Act, please than on ensuring criminal confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, no matter what the intentions and motives of the promoter are. So we can't see at all that our motives and intentions are illegal seduction, confiscation of illegally acquired assets. And that our intentions are good, that this law is also turned towards the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you that these same legislators of this law have been proposing since a year and a half of the Restitution Act. So it's not about nationalisation, it's about denationalisation that I don't even know why he doesn't go out in front of this house. So we're in favour of a restitution for non-denationalisation, and not how it says here that it could be concluded specifically from oral reasoning, so I can as a pronouncing that inclimates it with the Nationalisation Act. I've been asking you for the first time in two years in Parliament since I asked for a stenogram for this. I can share it with you. There are no words anywhere, neither is there any reason for this conclusion. It is said that our proposal can be classified into some revolutionary legislation and reminds us of the days of leather coats and leather boots. I still need to tell the boss some, I don't know. I've never really been in a situation where I just can't answer these ground-based objections. All they had to do was turn this into an investigative committee and see through the real intentions and motives of this promoter. In the end, I don't know what this will all come up with, I want only once again respected colleagues and colleagues to truly ask you to understand that the re-organised SDP proposal as a SDP Club has no particular interest in this case, but is motivated by the sincere belief that corruption, crime, is one of the biggest halls of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this sense we are very responsible in cooperation with experts and using the experience of other countries proposed one quite good bill that would form an agency that would be an effective mechanism for pre-integration of the special future of Bosnia and Herzegovina to find a cure for this evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15558	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Mladen Potočnik picked up the phone. ___________(?) /not included/ 31 Well, maybe it's better that way. If you agree, of course. Mr. Potočnik, go ahead. Let's get ready for who's next for word? So far there are no next ones. Here you go. Mr. Ćeman, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15560	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we all know that there are persons who have come to property in this country. We all know that the institutions that should be and who are responsible for prosecuted by such persons and for restoring that property don't work. We're all talking crime in this country. Even 60% of the gray economy is one type of crime. We speak in all statements to the European Union and to the man of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we will fight crime. By passing such a law and by creating an agency that will initiate the decriminalisation process of society, it is essential. Whoever doesn't want to look at the truth and whoever doesn't want to support this law, either it's not clean, or it's connected to crime. That is why I will support this law and I do not support the Commission's report because it is only in the interest of the good man of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15561	Thank you. Mr. Potočnik, I'd like to ask him not to put us in certain categories. It's the right of every MP to think what he thinks about all this and what he really is and where it belongs. I don't think it's right for anyone to be here like that, I'd say rudely qualified. Mrs. Seada Palavrić asked for a word. Does anyone else want to speak from the MPs? Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15562	I really didn't want to talk, but I have to replicate Mr. Potočnik's discussion, because it's inappropriate that if one agent has a conscience and some knowledge of the legal system, so he doesn't accept one law, then qualify him in the way that you do. It is also inappropriate that as I understood your discussion, because the authorities required by law are the police, the financial police, the tax administration, the prosecution, the courts, eventually do not do their job when it comes to taking away illegally acquired property, or not doing it well, should form something over, over the body of the administration that will deal with judicial matters and do their job. What's the guarantee that they'll work, if the courts, the prosecution and the police don't work. So I'm asking you not to put me in the category you're trying to put me in, because this is not the law I'm gonna support as long as I'm breathing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15563	Replication response, Mr. Potočnik. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15564	I didn't sort anyone out. I'm exactly everyone knows whether he's there or not. But we know there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15565	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Is that a replica? I apologize, Mr. Sead Avdić will get his word after Mr. Jozo Križanović says the replica. Here you go. Okay. I saw it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15566	I'd really like to replicate, because, first of all, I'm sorry that we never discuss the law itself. We are opening a debate here on the Commission's report. And then, as part of that, colleague Palavrić says that this is about one over the state authority and that it is and that it is like some sort of altari judicial authority etc. It's actually all inaccuracies, inaccuracies, and that's why I have to replicate. I say when we're talking about certain legal decisions, let's call on a certain article of that law and let's say that's it. These are the flat-rates that have nothing to do with the bill. That's what I wanted to thank you for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15567	Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare himself, I have not seen. His application is before your Mr. Belkić, so you'll get your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15568	My colleagues and colleagues, a respected presidency, dear guests, I understand the motives that led to the proposal of a law like this and an agency like this. I also understand this response in part to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and these laws that we have already passed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but must be looked at in the truth objectively. The system of justice and the system of simple SIPs and other institutions that we have established do not yet function in full capacity and indicators that warn the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular the authorities, is that a very small part of the property acquired by abuse, criminal and other means of malfeasance is objectively not worthy of any attention and in this context, means a large part of the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina is acquired by abuses, machinations, poor tax, fiscal policy not functioning by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina remains simply in the pockets of private and simple tycoon in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to mention how much it's appreciated, etc. etc. Which means objectively this agency warns the BH institutions that something must be done. If this is the answer, it's hard to agree. It would be another institution, important people, simple efficiency, transparency, consistency in law enforcement. It is important that those who simply implement, who are responsible for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the point of view of fighting crime, corruption, etc. etc. Which means the law does not solve the problem of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is one truth that should be addressed, from which to go. So he objectively warns and asks the Council of Ministers, first of all, to reconsider a complex of measures in the fight against corruption and crime and everything else, and I, my proposal is 33, and I ask that it be voted on to get the position of the 7th report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission out of the report, out of the report. Article 7 of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report. He is not at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15569	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Izet Hadžić. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15570	Here I would have, applied for a replica, and also to say for participation in the discussion. First of all, I want to say that I support the Commission's report, and as a man, I support the fight against all illegal activities. I Saću to say one sentence, so if a man illegally acquires property he needs to be taken away from him. If he illegally earns money and breaks up like he does, we won't touch him. So gamblers, etc. We don't touch and treat the adventurers who embezzle with seduction. Therefore, this is a fundamental argument that I find this legislative proposal to be flawed. So the problem of illegal action should be sanctioned and I believe that there are currently enough institutions that have space and knowledge and that they can do and I'm not sure that any official will, and if this act were passed, be brought as some superment outside the globe, it would already come from these yet existing institutions with appropriate experience and results. So we can't create supermen, but from these police institutions, the SIP, we're going to bring the judiciary to this agency. This is what I'm saying with the goal of thinking that this is the legal solution of adhoc only with the agency, etc. doesn't give a solution to this problem. All of us here know when in Bosnia and Herzegovina there was a possible, some kind of circus as a private brand or a smaller store. That's 20 years ago. Today we thank God that we have different already this value of the property of individual persons where we do not have to determine that it is all illegally acquired. Of course there's an illegal acquisition. From the information that I am ruling, I am more concerned about how this state will charge registered taxes on individual taxpayers than how we will try to find out what is in the secret of property solved by this, etc. So I'd like to see some information whether our institutions are able to already, on the basis of the law, based on established solutions from the institutions to collect their claims. I think that would also be one step in solving this problem, because it's all too suspicious to say it's sticking in one big resolution of irregularities, etc. And here, colleagues, I think, I would like to conclude, to call on that really this problem of illegal acquisition of property and fraud means neither property, but otherwise we focus on what is happening in our society and we are looking for a solution, which is in a series of legal acts of change, etc. and not just with one act, and of course, as part of having information about the existing institutions what they've done on this, on this issue and why they're not, because we don't think that the question, I really support that the underlying disease of every society is a problem of corruption and crime, and in this context am I better in the fight for this to solve this problem, but I don't think a solution like this is really close to getting this problem from a dead end. And that's why I accept a solution for this commission, which means I don't want to impute or allow anyone to say I'm unclean. My property, what I have is less value of the salary my wife earned, and I've been making some money, but that's when you look at the property, I think it's less worth it. So much and thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15571	Yeah, yeah, that's what we agreed. I thank Mr. Hadžić. The word came from Mr. Beriz Belkić, and so far there have been no more reports. Only then has Mr. Milorad Živković reported, and here comes Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Gligorić, fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15572	Here's what I've come up most for is a reason to be aware of the times I've advocated that this home respects the principles of economics and rationality in its work. Of course not diminishing the right, or by not taking away anyone's right to tell on many occasions what he thinks, about some thing he thinks about it. But today we have a commission report. We have months behind us to discuss this matter and we have all had the opportunity to publicly express our relationship to this legal project. I'm sorry that this, which kind of analysis we got this morning we didn't get a little early, so from our new structure that's here for the second time doing an analysis of certain things. It might help us in some way, but here's to respect what I've come to say. The BiH party remains in the previously expressed positions that it will therefore support the adoption of such a law and we will vote against this report today to make a contribution to the attempt to finally adopt this law. So I ask again to respect the principle of economics, rationality in the business of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15573	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15574	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this report that was written by our constitutional-legal commission, I would only stick to the third point of this report where it was found that it was not necessary to pass this law, because in addition to what was written, I think that here is the key to all that was written, I think here is the key to everything we're talking about, whether or not it is necessary to have an agency, or to pass the law on the agency? It seems to me that many here will agree with me if we say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is at the top of the most corrupt countries in the environment. That's what all the statistics showed, that's what the international factors showed, and we don't have to run from it. We need to stop at that and tell them what to do. Do we do it to find ways to make these organisations, courts and everything we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina work better, as some suggest, or we need to deal more strongly with corrupt factors, faces and organizations, so if the law is to be passed. So we believe from the SNSD that it is necessary to deal more strongly with corruption and that anything that can be done here under the law is necessary, and that is what we believe to be the agency and bring this law. And you don't have to run from it. The question is, is it necessary or not necessary? We also believe that we will also have to vote for this law, and against the Commission's report which explicitly stated that nothing needs to be done, that everything is done as it has been done so far, and I think 35 and a great commitment and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that a stronger fight against corruption is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15575	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija and so far we have Mr. Tihomir Gligorić reported and that's it, so let him prepare for another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15576	I thank Mr. Chairman, at the very beginning, I would like to remind only the esteemed esteemed colleagues and colleagues of something we all know very well, but it is not a waste to think of it again today, which is that we have had the opportunity to conduct a debate on this law in 14.7.2004. I would also remind you that at that time, this bill was practically stopped in one, the least said disputed situation that you remember well in which the voice of selo Bešlagić was electronically not registered in the right way, and that this was so, that it was registered as who and that Bešlagić voted me would already have this law in the procedure for 5-6 months. At that time, so close by, a number of you who are here today were present at the time, making an argument that we saw here in the Commission said there was no reason not to believe those who claim to exist but institutions that are working on these things and that if in three months, in five months, it would show which institutions that, as many have said then, some have spoken, if the results of these institutions are seen then they will again be for not to pass this law. However, a number of present colleagues and colleagues have said that if in three or five months it turns out that claims by those who have said that institutions already exist and work, if these institutions do not produce results, then they will join us who felt that this law should be passed. Also, on the proposal of the then vice-president, today the chairman of this House adopted the conclusion that it is in charge of the Council of Ministers to carry out, in collaboration with expert teams from countries from abroad, an analysis of the BH legal system on issues in the area of ensuring forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal activity and the management of confiscated property, so in the event that the findings of experts invest in the need for further regulation of this area, normative regulation of this area, or propose law in this area, or propose addition of existing laws. These are the conclusions we adopted in the debate. Now what's happened in these six months. It's practically nothing. The Council of Ministers and anyone who hasn't bothered to give us, to realize this conclusion, and that's why we tried to realize that conclusion, to make an analysis. We are within our club with a presidency of some political parties here who have held our close talks, hired experts and done an appropriate analysis. About the results of that analysis we used...I'll say a few words later when we haven't already received it from the Council of Ministers or from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. As for the attitude that existing institutions are doing their job and that this will prove to be who they are complicated, statistics are unfortunately very devastating and harsh. Statistics are moving, they're pretty unreliable on the data that we got from these, over the course of this year, until the end of the week, by the beginning of 12 months, that it was confiscated between 50,000 marks and some analysis 36 says nearly 300 thousand marks were confiscated on all court cases this year. Transpara data internally say that in the same period this year only from a domain based on abuses were stolen from public procurement, so only from public procurement from what some 150 million marks have been estranged from budget funds. From this you can see that you don't need a great mathematician to be to see that about 3,000 times as much on the basis of public procurement in this period is estranged funds rather than confiscated. Just one base, one base. One might say it's not 3,000, but it's 1,000, which is the bottom number. All right, that's 1,000 times as much as any public procurement has been embezzled, abused, stolen, so 1,000 times more than all court cases have been confiscated. The lawyers know it very well, especially those who offer us a report like this. In fact, the existing legislation also says the existing practice, to be precise, the practice of the existing one says: property is configured in the event that a man is convicted of a criminal offence and that property has been proven to have been committed in this criminal act, illegal and then eventually confiscated. European countries' practices change significantly in the late 1980s, early 1990s. I'll take only as an illustration of several countries. Let's say, and I will knowingly take those we didn't mention in the light of our law. In Belgium, for example, our close country according to its multi-national composition and because it is the EU's headquarters, since 1990, the configuration is part of a new criminal law that defined the revenue from the confiscation into the state budget for social purposes, and let's say during the period of application of the law first from 1994 to 1996, only during this short period was it frozen on average about 30 million marks, and it was configured about 50 million marks a year. So 2.3 years after application. The biggest problem of efficiency was the lack of specific legitimacy and poor asset management. So at the beginning of that 30 million a year based on freezing and 50 million a year based on the configuration is rated as small, as small. And it's estimated that it's a little bit because it's not a very precise legitimate property management in the way we suggest that this agency works. That's why it's '98. In Belgium, it introduces a new criminal law which practically requires the defendant to prove the origin of the property. So, it's going to turn around the way we're proposing here. And a central body is created, as is called the central body for freezing and confiscation of property in Belgium after it was estimated that 30+50, so 80 million a year is little, given the Belgian experience. I'll skip, let's say Germany. Germany has a significant revision of its legal framework on July 15, '99. the year so that the confiscation spread to total income from crime, not just to profit, because it was in Germany in '75. confiscation, confiscated only profit from chirminal. What's that that resulted in? The result was that in Germany in 6,893 cases about a billion marks, German marks, not KM, were frozen, but were at that time German marks. This law defines that confiscation is carried out independently, I underline independently of the verdict of a concrete criminal offence. I will skip many countries and take two Ireland and England, those who call for leather coats and who can conclude from this that Ireland and England will be a land of proletarianism. Namely, or that they already are because they have it. Ireland is normally in all European cases and all studies, and some of them that we can also give you in the Club of MPs and we can give you internet interests to take appropriate experience and analysis. Ireland is recommended by measuring European institutions as an example for others. Ireland had a very painful experience. Namely, they've been up since '94. Until '96. They dragged 37 of their parliament – they should not, this is like us. Then it's June 6, '96. A police officer who worked on a crime case was killed. I don't want to make comparisons with the people who were murdered here and whose murders were not cleared by other cops, the high-ranking police officers who were killed here, who were not cleared, and there are indications that they were working just to expose major crime. So, June 6, '96. A police officer was killed in Ireland. Twenty years later, a murdered investigative journalist who worked on the same case. August 4, '96. Ireland's parliament is passing a whole new law and introducing civil confiscation into the country's legal system. October 15, '96. The Bureau of Criminal Property is established and a limit of 30,000 marks is established for the lower limit of confiscation. Any similarity to these 30,000 marks is ours entirely on purpose. The Bureau is an independent multi-agency institution with powers to identify crime, property investigate and create preconditions for measures to freeze confiscation, criminal property. The income goes to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Until '95, until '95. 20,000 marks were confiscated in Ireland annually on average. Every similarity to dreams is complete. The only thing here that hasn't been killed in a short time is a cop and a reporter who's been investigating something so that in two months, we'll have to do all this. And I hope we do it before it happens. '97. The first year after the introduction of this 8 million marks a year, '98. by 2000 5 to 8 million a year and 20 cases a year. On average, each case weighs half a million marks. So, it doesn't focus, it doesn't fathom that world that smuggles cigars into the markets, it's one half a million per case. I won't talk about Britain if the High Representative resists pushing us, then we'll explain to him how it was done in the UK. Same case only better. Because of all this, we suggest and invite you who told us five or six months ago that you will support us if something doesn't change in the last five or six months. I call upon you to support us. I call on each individual to support us, because apparently in these five or six months nothing has proved to do what the heads of the Constitutional Commission have told us to do. We invite you to do so today, because regardless of what the President of the Constitutional Commission has said to the public, it is the one who is for this law that is who is for the fight against crime, and whoever is against this law is for criminals and that is who is the impression that is created in public and who is who is who, according to the President of the Commission, is not true. Whether you like it or not, first I think it's true, and even if it's not true, the public thinks so. And since we cannot change the public, we cannot change the people, at least we have no right, because the people chose us, then we should listen to that voice in public. Whether someone likes it or not, whoever stands up for this law today will be identified in public as someone who's ready to start fighting big criminals, start and move. To get away from us. I even suggest the conclusion that I suggested last time that we call upon the competent institutions to come from us to show that we are serious people. And I would, Mr. Chairman, ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you all know what member, to allow individual statements. Why? Because last time was because last time was faked. Or, if you don't want that, that after the vote, if we were to share the printer who voted so that we could see that, that it didn't happen like last time. Just to see if I'm in good shape. So, there's no need, let's make it electronic. But before you conclude that you give us a print as to how who voted that Selim could see if he was present. There. I'd really like to ask you to get that print before you figure out how to vote to see if that's what we say okay, we see, because it's obviously very important. 38 And one more thing that matters is that this law is passed like this. It's known, especially to representatives who come from the Federation that it's '98. the year passed the Law on Amnesty which translated into our language everything that was stolen by '96. It's okay, and no one can be punished and prosecuted for stealing eventually in time. This law, the way it's set, doesn't think it should, nor can retroactively undo the Amnesty Act. But this law allows those who stole and passed this law, including additional amnesty, to be taken away from him what he cannot prove where he came from. So I'd just beg you to keep in mind when you're against, possibly some of you know why you're against it. I'm not looking at you, Berize. And Mr. Chairman of all these research that we used, the EU, all end up with a single sentence about – if there is political will then this is very simple to do. Then this is very simple to do. If there is no political will, the story is over. And we're showing political will today if we're going to make this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15577	I thank Mr. Lagumdjia and without the need for a lecture here. Everyone's smart enough to judge what to do. Is Mr. Gligorić in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15578	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15579	Is it business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15580	Mr. Chairman, I gave you no lecture. I'm just here to give the argument that we were obliged to get from the conclusion of this home six months ago. Just part of the small, and if I were to give you a lecture, no matter what you're a monitoring expert, I'm not sure you could follow me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15581	Mr. Lagumdžija, don't bother, don't think you can lecture me. And I didn't think about myself at all. Mrs. Palavrić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15582	And I really have to replicate, I don't want everything Mr. Lagumdžija talked about, because we've spent almost two years on his professorial presentations. One lady used to say well that she kept a pen ready for eight months to write something smart, so she didn't make it. Unfortunately, the old ones are such that each of us can waste taxpayers' time and every day and every month repeat the same requirement for the same law, no matter how unreasonable it may be, but that's the case. But what I cannot stay in debt about is that Bosnia and 39 Herzegovina is at the top of countries where corruption flourishes. I call on MPs to return their memory to a statement, it seems to me that the High Representative who said that Bosnia and Herzegovina in that segment is no different from other European countries and seems to have mentioned Switzerland. The other thing I can't stay to say about is the alleged analysis or the research of amnestenesenes. I don't allow corruption to be sewn together based on claims, not arguments. If we remember from what we could hear from the media, because we didn't earn so much money to get a report from amnestyrnasenes, it says that the most corrupt members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly are the most corrupt. I, gentlemen, publicly call on the transparenstenel to make an argument on all claims of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially on the corruption of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, I think we should be responsible for what they're doing, because as many as they're non-governmental institutions, if they're not the government institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, somebody else's interests are obviously working, and that's what Mr Lagumdžija uses here as an argument and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15583	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Tihomir Gligorić has a word. Here you go. Yeah, Mr. Živković's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15584	Just to answer to my distinguished colleague that she cited one of the sources means Mr. High Representative who says that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not like a corrupt country, or that it is as corrupt as Švajcarska. I'm going to tell you his deputy who says that over the last few years more than 1 billion KMs are in private pockets instead of social funds, so I'm wondering if we're that close to Switzerland or not. I think that's where you made a big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15585	I thank Mr. Živković. We still have Mr. Gligorić's discussion and we'll give Mr. Ćeman a word, of course, in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15586	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking today about the Commission's report, which is about the proposal for this law that has been in the process for a long time, I believe that this report should be rejected and simply accepted by this bill. My position is known for this question, I have spoken often, so I will now make it brief, but above all I want to point to the fact that this law would be very important in relation to criminal law in general, since I had the opportunity to talk to the judges and prosecutors recently and indeed to the authorities in the judiciary regarding the high judicial and prosecutorial council when we had our programme, i.e. my presentation of the judiciary and its developmental, their developmental path. Then they said that we actually have an anomaly that within the practice of implementing criminal 40 laws according to the criminal procedure is what Mr. Lagumdžija said, and it is they treat it as a benefit, as part of or from profit so that only one small part is actually taken away in very rare cases, and no one takes away property that has been acquired by illegal actions. And that's the point. We here today have an argument from Mr. Ćeman, so here's the Seade that talks and keeps insisting that we have it regulated. But the problem is that, as it's actually done, it comes down to a few percent, a couple thousand marks, and you don't get into the essence of that thing, and that's taking away the meaning of that property. I would like to remind you, as Parliament's majority, since you, here's what I'm talking about, it doesn't matter to you, to remind you, when we as the Parliamentary Assembly, as the House of Representatives, have adopted our programme of work and the priorities of the law, to remind you then I suggested that this law should be passed, or that the Council of Ministers should do so, because it is one of those 16 priorities that you speak of so often, depending on what you need. What happened? Did we call the Council of Ministers to pass this very law upon us? Not about the criminal law we now have, but about a whole new law that will make even more criminal legislation just better. None of you from the congregation's majority called for the Council of Ministers' responsibility on this matter, and this is the same law as any reform law that we have discussed with one another and we want to end it within a certain period. That's all you're forgetting. And that's why I think the valid internal reform that our citizens expect is actually passing that law. And I don't know why it should be feared at all, if that's an example in other countries, since Zlatko tried to explain and talk about other countries, he didn't mention the U.S. that brought her up with a bill that was taken away illegally from the US. Why, even I am asking you from the congregation majority, why, except for the BiH Party that their position on this matter was clear that we need such a law. It is best to take some kind of anathema off of ourselves if we support this law now to vote against this report, and accept the proposal of this law to make a statement about it and get a practically so important law for all of us and the citizens. And what Mr. Izet was saying is whether it's better if it's visible or not visible crime. There is one research done here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is the difference between domestic criminals and foreign criminals? So these domestics like Izet, just like they hit it, they do this -- they buy the best house, the best apartment of course abroad, the car, and then they hide it, unlike this criminal in the west who buys the diamond ring and goes to action, launders money, etc. etc. But we can't just say what he invested on illegal, let's amnest him, because here's hiring someone to help and even he needs this society. So let's not make that sense. And that's why you U.S.A. If you think so, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. And you love our citizens as much as we do in the opposition, and let's agree to pass this law and you'll see that we're going to help our citizens and that this is a very much needed practical law in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15587	I thank Mr Gligorić for the second time within this agenda. And we've still got Mr. Ćeman, so we'll close the debate. We won't be able to do it anymore, what's his name, so we do it. Please. Because it says in the Rules of Procedure that you can speak once in a single item of the agenda. He's the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15588	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I present today and, of course, defend the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and therefore, I report multiple times for the word. I repeat, I refuse on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of Political Discussions that have been on the trail of classification of who is for the law he is against corruption and crime, and who is against the law, he is for corruption and crime. Access to the Constitutional and Legal Commission was, I urge you to read this well, this report has been from a legal point of view and with full conviction that we have proved from a legal point of view that this agency is not necessary, I call on you to support the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. Before that, please, I must repeat, firstly, that in our legal system today, there are certain and dilemmas regarding the broader context of this issue and the Constitutional and Legal Commission quoted a colleague of Križanović, the attitude of Article 110, who is precisely what you said, that the court can take away this benefit and in a separate procedure, if there is, of course, without a separate procedure, justifiable reason for the conclusion that the benefit has been obtained by a criminal act, and the owner or user is not able to prove that the benefit has been obtained by law, Article 110. The BiH Penal Code and the relevant provisions of other evidence. That's exactly what this is about. When we, let us, when we claim and claim that there is an instrumentation, of course, is a matter of court practice gentlemen, to see how to at the same time reconcile the principle of presumption of innocence and possibly this principle that would be playing it. That's not what the gentlemen answer to this assembly, the courts that my colleague Gligorić, today's elected, I speak for this commission, but I have to choose neither SDA nor SDP, someone independent has chosen these courts. Let the gentlemen do his job. Furthermore, please, I am explaining again the Commission's position, because I simply do not allow this body to be imputed to the need of an ordinary administrative body, imputing... for crime. The state prosecutor of this country said here after that pay phone, gentlemen, some time ago on 25.06.2004 – as regards Mr. Križanović's question, it seems to me that others have also asked a question about this property-law, the confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal acts and whether this instrumentation, based on the Criminal Procedure Act, is so good and can be taken in an effective way against-law property benefit. The prosecutor says, I personally think, I quote – that he is very good, only when it comes to the property benefit being taken away, if it is obtained by criminal acts, so we have a lot of good built-in mechanisms through the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law of BiH and enable us to succeed in confiscation of the property benefits obtained against the law. However, there is quite a conditionality, so to speak, illegal actions and activities resulting in someone committing a criminal offence, but you can't come up with valid and quality evidence on the basis of which evidence could criminally prosecute someone and in this procedure take away the anti-legal property benefit, so he says that in the end, in that direction, I don't think that this other segent has been sufficiently processed either through the Criminal Procedure Act, and I think these discussions that were conducted earlier on the passing of a special law, I support them and I think they're very justified. So that's the prosecutor's opinion. I say, Mr. Prosecutors and gentlemen of the judge, here's the authority that says in Article 110, paragraph 3 is, uh, this one, etc. please simply develop legal practice in this regard. We are not you, gentlemen who should judge and that is the right position of this committee, that is the legal position of this committee. Furthermore, there is and that is also the position of this commission, the appropriate instrumentation for this, imposing security measures. So, before my colleague Lagumdžij is convicted, before 42 is convicted and you ask prosecutors and judges what they are not doing, there is a possibility that one through the Financial Intelligence Department of the SIP, through the rest of the Tax Administration, you may be able to post them a letter, etc. that in the case of the Tax Administration Act, it even speaks of indications when certain things can be done, etc., about the indications. Therefore, a temporary ban on real estate is issued, a temporary mortgage is entered in land books, no transfer of ownership rights, etc. is withdrawn, the availability of these money from the account is prohibited, etc. So the point is, gentlemen, we claim there is an instrumentation. Even this, although I'm a lawyer, believe me, not at all in the context of a debate who's just, who isn't, as a lawyer, I wonder how our professional public, those who are better lawyers than me, these two institutes will reconcile. And therefore, we have written to you gentlemen. And my expectations on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission were that we would, as colleagues, focus first and foremost on seeing whether this facility was needed or not. That was our approach. If that's why we made a mistake, here's why we made a mistake, please determine whatever you want. We were just proving that simply a new institution wasn't simply necessary. And as for all other things, read the other points in this report. I accept that it sounds ugly, maybe this at point 7 and point 9 but let me, these tones in the debate were and let it be just as you have unfortunately drawn the conclusion that whoever is against this law is supporting crime, simply here is made more like a legal dilemma, is it really legal-plolytic dilemma here now in terms of whether this really carries the implications of that kind. I fully understand your insult, but allow me to be offended and on behalf of the Commission in the extreme case, I speak on behalf of the Commission, I am offended if one debate on professional-legislative approach is to this extent politicizing that then it is said that who is and who is not for crime. After all, down here it is also said that the Parliamentary Assembly has adopted a series of laws, on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Criminal Law of this kind or of that kind, etc., but has already shown its relationship to it. And as far as I'm concerned, I end up in the name of the commission, I think the real conclusion would be, let anyone suggest, that an analysis be made of the application of the law between the rest and this broadest area and possibly what is called, let my colleague Džaferović and others, called criminal policy, help me. In the sense of criminal policy, therefore, whether, since you are careful, you have a range in the laws, perhaps indeed judges sometimes do not use appropriate instruments, perhaps really lead too mild a policy. But it's also a debate, without intending to interfere in this, jurisdiction of the courts, to point out perhaps gentlemen, you are too mild, perhaps you should be milder, please, in the context of your responsibilities take it into consideration, keep in mind. So, I end up calling for you to support this report and not once again as an invitation for criminals to be amnesty and this, calling for crime not to be prosecuted and not to take away property, but simply avoid another institution that will do the work that others have done or should do, and we need to create an ambience and conditions for them to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15589	I thank Mr. Ćeman. So I'd like you to be the one who's reporting for the second time, of course, you're right, especially if you're proposing, but I'd like you to take care of the time for the second-time discussions to be just an extraordinary discussion, to say that it didn't show up in the first discussion. I guess that should be brief. Mr. Beriz Belkić has a need to correct, in his opinion he blames the allegations, so go ahead. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15590	...the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I asked for a moment and warned about this principle of economicity and rationality, and apparently we heard nothing new, and even of the promoters that we didn't know, and especially of those who opposed to saying so, the passing of the law. But to get back to what I answered. We've made a correct report. Of course, it's a matter of taste and formulation now, etc. in an explanation. This was exactly like this, but from the explanation of the President of the Commission, it turns out that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has unique views, that there are, I didn't answer because of the fact that I said no, I wasn't up for it. I called about the next one, so we can focus on these three points that are locked in there. This is correct, Mr. President, all of this, is your attitude. So, and what you're suggesting, that's also your point of view. Therefore, the Commission's report comes down to these three points, 1,2,3. So the law didn't get most of it, it didn't get support, and it was estimated that no further proceedings should be conducted. And all the talk is in it. We've all made arguments, so let's let the people know. ________? So we've got the Beriza report. Well, of course we do, but we've been talking for 2.5 hours, you haven't intervened.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15592	Have you finished your colleague? Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15593	It doesn't matter, Mr. Ćeman. You discuss 3.5 hours and repeat things.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15594	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Please one more time, I will begin to apply the measures in the Rules of Procedure. Please, I'll sit here as long as you like, but as long as I sit down, the Rules of Procedure will be respected. And please, it's inadmissible for us to conduct dialogue beyond the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikola Špririć answered the word, the first deputy chairman, please. You'll get the word after Mr. Špirić, get ready. He has a discussion regularly reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15595	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I think it's an important issue. I think it's a good atmosphere, I think it's also tolerated. If citizens can stand everything that's written about BiH about crime and corruption, then we have to take part, too, I'd say, for me, still normal atmospheres, when we're discussing these things. It is very important in this country whether there is a political consensus, whether there is a political will to deal seriously with what is called crime and corruption. Therefore, I must say that the logic of the BiH war and war was that national elites, so I am not talking about national parties, but national elites, get protection in the national police in the national armies that had a major task of protecting what they call and crime within the same nation. The question here is whether we can break that logic from the state level, can we get to good legislation that will sanction what is called crime and corruption, and I don't think that this 44 law that is proposed can help us on that path even though there are, they're right colleagues when they say, and enough legislation to fight the team. But this law almost certainly can't get away on that path. What we also need to take care of and what we should have been busy with at every session, why BiH authorities did not create conditions for optimal and normal SIP work, especially in BiH's Organisational Crime Department. Why there's been an obstruction that the SIP is functioning. Why the most important thing to this country is whether the SIP director will be a Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat, and whether there will be less crime and corruption. And that's the thing that we need to discuss logically and normally, but we have to say that this country is mutilated. It was also mutilated based on crime because part of Serbian criminals were legally granted the right to purchase some of the property in RS, part of Bosniak and Croatian in the Federation and part of the international where it was good. There was no legal clarity on the whole of BiH to prevent them from doing so. Are we getting up to look the truth in the eye? I'm interested in why this law would go that way. Here, assuming you don't use legislation properly. And I think this law, even if we adopt it, will go into regular analysis to see if new institutions need to be created or if we're going to help SIP work. Why did we create a chance for only representatives of the international community to pursue what is called organized crime? Because there is no political will. I have to say that lately I've been hearing different defenses, when some institutions are at stake, and we form ourselves the thesis of the International Community that the political establishment does not want to solve this problem. The defence, for example, of institutions and entities and of the MUP, for example, of RS, must only be an argument that there is no crime and corruption there. And not to say Deputy High Representative to 100 prime ministers comes with information and says you have 100 million in Serbian forests. So when he says we don't give the RS MUP, they say he serves you that criminals and politicians steal. So everything has to be clear. Are we ready or not ready? Maybe we're not ready right now, while maybe a dozen of those who run the wheel don't pay the price they need to pay in front of this public. I don't know who they are, but we all know before the war that there are people who didn't have brooms, brooms. Today they are people whose property is measured by hundreds of millions of marks. How? Where were we? Did we sleep over? I mean, what's legal nobody's gonna touch. There are even the possibility that, of course, criminals are skilled, that part of unspecified legislation is used for illegally acquired property, and so today when I intervened on this, is the lowest grade or the highest grade serving that and that's an amendment to the law that doesn't allow it. And I will support this law, not thinking it is ideal, not thinking it will solve what is the problem, because fighting for the moral restoration of BiH will last longer than war and war-building. And this law, and all we do, is contribute to the struggle for moral renewal. Those who have, therefore, capital in BiH, have the strength to unfortunately enter the structural and ruling and opposition parties, that is, the problem. That capital is a damage to BiH, it is not development capital. That capital is, it even has that intention if someone says, this one says you're a thief, which means 50 marks to make a man disappear, 50 grand. Is that in the interest of one man from any nation? It's not. I think this is a strict problem that does not tolerate a national story. And I think we need to get in the mood today, give hope that we're gonna work on this. This law probably won't solve 1%, but it gives hope that there's a political consensus that we want to do it, that we'll be changing the law in a month in half a year. Maybe it turns out there's nothing we can do under this law. Maybe someone's telling us that this law wants to do what's already been formed. Anything can happen. And as usual, when we don't have an analysis from the Council of Ministers, why the bodies formed don't produce results. Why isn't the SIP filled after two years? Because, or because he doesn't want the leadership that keeps giving us the cry, we can't work, there's no space, we can't fill people, we can't choose professionals, so we have complaints and we don't do anything. 45 If we had this information from the Council of Ministers, we would have a better communication with each other today. So we have to develop this ghetto that's created. And there's a rope between political elites and criminals. That's not unclear. Is there a mood or not? Whether today is a moment or not, I have no answer and every time there's a story about it, I want to make a contribution. It's not an ideal law, but it is an attempt to get rid of something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15596	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15597	Thank you. I'm really going to try to be brief. It's like I said at the beginning, I'm really sorry that we're even here, in the second attempt we're not talking about the law itself, we're talking about the views of our competent commission, and we're kind of more involved in politicizing this problem than we want to get into its essence. You see, laws are necessary, but laws are passed to regulate some behavior in society. And in order to put those laws down, specifically for the fight against crime, we need an institution. This is about mechanisms. This is about a proposal from a specific organisation, an institution, an agency. And as my colleague Ćeman said, it's a matter of technical law. So we've politicized him this much if it's technical law. We saw just before when my colleague Lagumdžija made a little point here, about the experiences of Western European countries. You see, they all had laws, so they upgraded them, they all had certain departments within certain existing institutions, so they changed and created special.....with this problem. You see, it's important to point out here that it's about the Agency to secure forced seizure, not forced seizure. So nothing's done here without the courts. She investigates, warns where and there are justifiable elements to suspect illegal property acquired. Everything else is a matter of courts. And why we decided to form a special institution, not with the SIP, not with the MUP, not with the financing of some etc.? We just wanted to give her strength, because BiH is a corrupt country. That's clear. For such an organ to be accountable only to the BiH Parliament, so as not to be put under pressure in some hierarchical organisation, some of the existing institutions dealing with the issue. And finally, as my colleague Špirić said, I think we would have done a good thing if we were to support the adoption of this law today, that is, if we had decided against the Commission's report, because we would have given BiH citizens hope that this Parliament would want to have a serious time with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15598	I thank Mr. Križanović. Does anyone else want to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Here, therefore, there was a request from one of the MPs to declare ourselves individually in the Rules of Procedure only if there were doubts about the results of the vote, one may ask for an individual statement, but another request is also highlighted, that immediately after the vote the press release and the distribution of the MPs and that 46 will, of course, be done, it is a matter of business and it should be done. Therefore, this, I ask the service that, I ask the service to prepare itself, to do a list after the vote and share it with all MPs. So, we plead, please, colleagues and colleagues, we are now pleading on the Commission's Report and voting on the Commission's Report. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15599	I had one suggestion, Mr. Chairman. So, uh... The Commission's report and I'm asking for a vote on it. It means point 7 is deleted from the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15600	Okay, thanks. Mrs. Palavrić, I've concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15601	To take out Mrs. Hadžiahmetović's card or someone, I see it's all a lot and the cards are
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15602	It doesn't count to a card,...he who doesn't press the button at the time of the vote, here there are services that take care of it, please make sure that it has any influence, if someone's card is involved, or if the voting device is involved, and he's not present, to take care of it. Mr. Avdić, I'll put your motion to a vote, your amendment. Please, Mr. Ćeman, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15603	I think on behalf of the commission I can say that these points are controversial, so this, 7 and 9, to get out of, well it's all disputed, I understand this, to get out, these were more of the findings of part of what's being said in this one, uh, discussion. Otherwise, it's not, so as far as I'm concerned, it can throw that out, too, why not. On behalf of the commission, please, only there were more findings but we don't have to, here, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15604	Please, allow me to conduct the session. Mr. Avdić, I have consulted with the College here, you will have the possibility as well as everyone to plead through the Report by voting on the Commission's report on all the elements of this Report. Therefore, I now call on Members to prepare themselves, to vote on the Commission's report. I urge you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Please, 18 votes for the report, 17 against, there's a sufficient entity majority. The Commission’s report was adopted. 47 I ask that the results of the vote be printed and shared with the MPs. If there is no doubt in the results of the vote, please remain in the room that you are now, let's see. All right, then share the results of the vote. I find that the Commission's report has been adopted with these results. I'm taking a break by 2:30, lunch break. I'll see you here at 3:30. We keep working. [[PAUZA]] I've been informed by professional services that we have a quorum to continue our work. He'll probably join the rest of his colleagues when they find out we've started working. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, that's Ad.8. The proposal for a law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, civil servants and others employed in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, second reading, is proposed by Momčilo Novaković The proposal for this law in the first reading, we adopted at the 47th session of the House. Now we're in second reading. In the plenary phase, we have amendments from Joza Križanović, selo Bešlagić and Zlatko Lagumdžija, two groups of amendments. Amendments disputing the amendments to the Commission and the amendments which have been called for by Article 94(3)(a) shall mean new aspects which the Commission could not take into account. I'm opening an amendment debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Adem Huskić answered the question. Mr. Huskić is also a member of this Commission for Defence and Security Policy. I ask him to speak on behalf of the Commission if he has already taken his word, as I chair the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15605	Mr. Chairman, I just called to speak as a member of the committee. I did the last time we had this law in our first reading, also not on behalf of the commission, but I spoke as a member of the commission, and so this one, I'm going to do it now. I would like to remind my fellow Members once again that this law has come into parliamentary procedure, I think in April or May of the month. So half a year, he's kind of raving. The Commission has devoted seven meetings to this law. She worked very hard, quite responsibly, and I must say that the initial text proposed by Mr. Novaković has suffered this kind of engineering one 90% intervention, so actually this material that the commission finally adopted and proposed to Parliament does not reflect to a good extent what was proposed in the initial material. During the commission's work, both the ministry and the minister and its two deputies and experts helped the commission, so I am convinced that this is the maximum that can be objectively made regarding this law. As for the amendments tabled by the SDP colleagues, I will also remind myself that before they tabled the amendments, they made a proposal for another law specifically which dealt with the same problem on occasion, so that in some ways there were two laws in the procedure, with 48 that they had not been considered because this one had come before in consideration, so they probably managed to submit these amendments. I'm not talking about whether these amendments are good or bad. I think they have their own specific weight, but given the way this report came into play, given the time spent on the Commission, given the energy and effort that the Commission and the ministry have made, and everyone else, I would ask that these amendments be withdrawn, and that this area to which the second part of the amendment applies, if they understand and I think they understand what they're talking about, that it is possibly regulated by a special law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15606	I thank Mr Huskić, who also spoke as an MP but also on behalf of the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, for defence and security policy. Who else wants to talk? The debate is in the second reading of the amendments. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Jozo Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15607	Thank you. I would like to stress that what my colleague Huskić said, that we did not make amendments to the ordinary procedure of this law because we have tabled a complete bill that regulates the sending of our military, police units and other employees of BiH to peacekeeping missions. However, when we saw what was happening to the proposed law, that it had suffered, I would say a full amendment to the proposed text, where 40 amendments were tabled, we decided to submit amendments, therefore, to which we are refuting amendments adopted on the relevant committee and part of the amendment that regulates a whole new area. I don't want to explain all our amendments here today, I hope that colleagues have had time to look at them, but I would like to point out that they can be classified into three groups of amendments that we consider to be very important to this law. The first group of amendments therefore refers to the greater role of Parliament when it comes to the peace missions of our military and police forces. The second group of amendments is a supplement, therefore to civil protection units, which has been dropped in this bill. The third group of amendments regulates a whole new area, which is the stay of foreign forces, foreign citizens in any mission in BiH. We believe that these are very significant improvements to the law, and I cannot accept this suggestion from my colleague, Huskić, so that we can give up on them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15608	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one wants to talk anymore, I will conclude the debate and we will move on to a statement on amendments, and afterwards on the text of the law itself. 49 So we have amendments, by calling for Article 94(1), that's nine amendments. And we have amendments to Article 94(a) which have two amendments, but 2.4 members are added to one amendment and the second amendment is the consequence of this first amendment. We will first declare this group of nine amendments, amendments that refut the amendment committees. And now we move on to a plea. Amendment I, Mr Joza Križanović, selo Bešlagić and Zlatko Lagumdžija. By calling for Article 94(1), I invite you to prepare for a plea concerning Amendment I from this first group. Prepare to vote and vote now. Amendment I, 10 votes to, against 18, has neither the general nor the entity majority. Do you insist that we fix Mrs Milićević's vote in view of that, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15609	I was wrong. That's all he's saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15610	Yeah, don't insist on anything. Are you looking for another vote? I find that this amendment has not been adopted. Transitions of the declaration of amendment II Please prepare for the vote, we are voting on Amendment II. Vote now. Please don't, please, Mr. Bešlagić, ask with a repeat vote on Amendment II. Dear Mr. Bešlagić. I ask the MPs, I ask the service to cancel this vote, I call upon the MPs to prepare themselves, to vote on Amendment II, and you will vote when I say vote now, you know that because I am following here, I have this button in front of a person. Prepare to vote, we vote on Amendment II. Vote now. I find that with eight votes to and 19 against, the amendment has not received the required majority. We move to a plea under Amendment III, Mr Bešlagić, Lagumdžija and Križanović. I call upon the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. 8 for and 18 against, the amendment has not been adopted, Amendment III. Moving to Amendment IV. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With eight votes in favour and 20 votes against, the amendment did not win, Amendment IV did not get the required majority. 50 We move to a statement under Amendment V. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 8 for, 19 against, I find that Amendment V did not receive the required majority. Please, we're voting on Amendment VI. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 8 for, 18 against, Amendment VI did not receive the required majority. We move to a plea under Amendment VII. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 8 for, 20 against, the amendment didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving to a declaration under Amendment VIII. Prepare to vote. May I have your attention, please? I'm really asking for your attention, so give the people please. Prepare to vote for Amendment VIII. Vote now. 7 for 21 against, Amendment VIII did not receive the required majority. We move to a plea under Amendment IX. Prepare to vote for Amendment IX. Vote now. 8 for, 19 against, Amendment IX did not receive the required majority. Respect for fellow Members, we move on to a declaration by amendments made by an invitation to Article 94(a). We have Amendment I and Amendment II. I urge you to come forward with me on Amendment I. Vote now. 3 for, 19 against, Amendment I from this second group, failed and was not adopted. And we move on to an amendment II statement from this second group. Prepare to vote. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? 3 votes for, 21 votes against, I find that this amendment has not passed either. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are now pleading on the text of the law that we have received from the commission. So, that text we got from the commission. Prepare to vote and vote now. 21 votes for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that this result, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, passed the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, civil servants and others employed in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, the legislator of the law, Mr Momčilo Novaković. 51 Transmits the ninth point of the agenda that is, Ad.9. The draft single rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions Constitutional and Legal Commission on 22 November this year submitted a proposal for uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions. The material was sent to you on 24 November. I'm opening a debate on this material. Who wants to talk? You have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission with six amendments. Mr. Martin Raguž, second deputy chairman of the House of Representatives and member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, probably on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15611	Since I do not have the chairmanship of the commission, we have now held a session of the committee in this apartment which was and since there was a request for additional amendment action, the commission agreed to determine and to request an additional deadline from the House for 15 days. We think that's justifiable. Here, since there is no Mr. Ćeman, I think I owe you a warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15612	Thank you, does anyone want to speak on this subject? Then the Constitutional and Legal Commission proposal to set an additional 15-day deadline for making these rules in order to make things clear, I put it to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour of, 2 votes in favour, with no abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority adopted a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, issued by Vice-President of the House of Representatives, Mr Martin Raguž, here for a pay phone, in the sense of giving an additional deadline to the Constitutional and Legal Commission of 15 days to deliver the precise rules. We move to the point of the ten agenda of today's session, that's A.10. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH for the period 01.01. - 30.06. In 2004. You've been honored ladies and gentlemen, received a report on the work of the Administrative Commission during the specified period. Just to remind you that it is a business obligation for the Administrative Commission to report to the House every 6 months on its activities. This is the provision of Article 42, Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of this House. I'm opening a debate on this subject. Here you go. Mr. Vinko Zorić, Deputy Chairman of the Administrative Commission, come in. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15613	That's right, you all got this report. I just need to point out, we had one last time to the Administrative Commission yesterday and so there wouldn't be any confusion, these locks that we have from the 9 to the short text of the report, these are our suggestions, and that's what it says here. So they're proposals and that's an integral part of the report that we've made. These conclusions are not valid until the College of the House of Representatives has put them on the agenda and brought them in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15614	So, they're the gardens in that report, especially in that report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15615	No, they're an integral part of the report, but it says right here that we're proposing to the Chamber to draw conclusions. So it's a perfectly correct formulation and yesterday it was inconclusive whether these locks were worth it. They're not worth it until the House of Representatives brings them in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15616	So, by adopting this report, we don't adopt those conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15617	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15618	If the College puts them back in the process, they will be re-pronounced by the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15619	I think you should put 'em on 'cause that's
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15620	I say if you suggest we do this now, that's our right to be, and only when the House adopts them, then they become full-time, that we understand each other just, thank you very much, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15621	That's right, it's now for understanding so we don't have a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15622	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I apologize, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, after the debate has been concluded, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15623	It's clear to me that today we don't decide on the conclusions but I want to, because here one obligation is determined to the Constitutional Commission, not to get away from work, of course, but simply my understanding of this conclusion here, because it says, from now on, I can't find it anywhere that when the Constitutional Commission is considering constitutional basis, it's taking care of it, paraphrasing, whether it will take me not to know how many secretaries or some other administrative ones, for administrative 53 service in this regard, etc. It is not the task of the Constitutional Commission to see that part of the aspect in this context. I would rather say that this aspect should be considered by the competent committee, whichever is, because the constitutional basis is the constitutional basis, not the issue of functionality, organisation, needs, etc. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15624	I think that's how we can and understand Mr. Ćeman and I don't think the Administrative Commission would mind correcting that part. Mr. Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15625	...that's part of the conclusion,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15626	Yeah, yeah, it's okay, so does anyone else want to talk? If no one wants to talk, I have to put this report to the press. It is voted on in principle for the report, against the report or withheld from the report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that unanimously with 30 votes for, pardoned by a majority of 30 votes in favour, without against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, we have accepted the report on the work of the Administrative Commission. Moving to the 11th agenda of today's session, that's Ad.11. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH has reached agreement. They delivered us 1,2,3,4, 8.9 amendments. So this is the committee's position in line. You've got it and I'm putting the commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with 27 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour and 4 abstentions with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency, which is considered adopted in this House. We're going to the twelveth point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. Dušanka Majkić's election as member of the Administrative Commission and the Commission for Finance and Budget instead of Mr Nikola Kragulj, also to elect the same lady as the Commission for a member of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, so we will vote three times if you do not agree to vote in the package. So, I propose that Mrs Dušanka Majkić be elected member of the Administrative Commission, then the Commission for Finance and Budget, and finally the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, instead of former member of Mr Nikola Kragulj. 54 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without opposition and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, has chosen Mrs Dušanka Majkić as a member of the three committees and this: the Administrative Commission, the Finance Commission and the Budget Commission and the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs of the BiH Parliamentary House. I would like to congratulate Mrs. Majkić once again on this choice and wish her successful work in the House of Representatives and his working bodies. We're going to the thirteenth agenda, that's, please, attention, that's Ad.13. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Tax Act on additional value of the Tax on Additional Value was adopted in different texts in the House of People and in the House of Representatives. For this reason, it is necessary to establish a joint commission that will bring the same text of the law into line. In the commission, the College suggests Mrs Jelina Đurković, Mrs Seada Palavrić and Mr Vinko Zorić. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. Coming through, please, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement, get ready to vote. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? I find that the House of Representatives with 24 votes in favour of, 7 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, has chosen the Commission of both homes to bring the text of the Tax Act into line with the additional value, composed of Mrs Jelina Đurković, Mrs Seada Plavrić and Mr Vinko Zorić. Moving to the fourteenth point of the agenda, that's Ad.14. The proposal for a conclusion, on the shortening of deadlines for the discussion of the proposal for a directive on the marketing of products and services and the proposal for a law on excise duties in BiH, namely ladies and gentlemen, is a well-known situation in relation to the adoption of the laws mentioned. On the 17th of this month, we sent you a letter from the High Representative which draws attention to the importance of passing these laws by the end of the year. In order to meet this need, it is necessary to cut the deadlines for the procedure and hold another session by the end of the year to discuss and adopt the new laws. The agenda of this session, since there were questions from the parliamentary benches, would be just these two laws and it would be held on the 29th, as you can see from this conclusion. It would only be the Transport Tax Act and the Act on Excises of BiH. That day, only those two laws would be on the agenda. They wouldn't be burdened by the known reasons for the agenda. The day would also work at the House of Peoples, the 27th would be completed by the commissions, and that day, if the needs were to be met, they would be agreed. There's plenty of time if someone wants to put in an amendment and I'm proposing this conclusion that you've got today on the parliamentary benches, I'm putting it under discussion. Who wants to talk? Mrs. Ljilja Milićević. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15627	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we have been as a committee, so informally considering this conclusion and aware of the fact that these two laws are necessary, as well as aware these days that are ahead of us, and weekends and holidays and all, we have consulted with colleagues from the House of Peoples. And accordingly, let me say here that the amendments are submitted until the beginning of the session, the 28th hold the Finance Commission. So the House of the Peoples is on the 28th. Since the deadlines here are relative, otherwise in this procedure, we agree that we too would have held a commission on the 28th of the afternoon. For the simple reason, at that time and the House of Nations, we can in some way coordinate before and for the people who have family obligations these days and we believe that we are not destroying anything that has not already been broken, with the commission being held on December 28th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15628	I thank you, Mrs. Milićević. Sir, please Nikola, Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15629	Here I would suggest that since that day is going to be the House of Peoples to do this VAT job too, so that that day is done and the alignment is done and it's on the agenda because it's not burdening one more session report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15630	You see, if you can finish this, you on the board, Mr. Zorić, I can say immediately as chairman, I think I have the consent of my colleagues from the College, if you get to finish the VAT report for that day, I think the VAT law can, too, if you get there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15631	You've appointed three members, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15632	Well, I say if you get there. I don't know about that now. That's why I talk like this, if you do. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15633	I've been trying to talk to you about this at the Expansive College. When we have a situation that will meet the Finance and Budget Commission, we might also be able to make this law on amendments to the Central Bank Act for a simple reason to apply the 2004 profit law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15634	I see we don't have full consent. Thank you, Beriz. I took that note, and I will, of course, lead the debate further in that direction. Please, who further asked for the word. Mr. Križanović, please. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15635	Respect for my colleague and colleagues, of course, I will not spoil this general mood to do everything to allow these two Laws on Transport Taxes and the Excise Act, in accordance with the OHR letter to be adopted this year, so that they can be applied from the beginning of next year. However, I would like to believe that, although we are aware of this, but to say publicly, that we are really doing this and with one good will, expressing Parliament's great responsibility for such a matter, but beyond all possible practices so far, and especially the Rules of Procedure. And so be it, but I really want to say that it is an incomprehensible practice that exists in the Council of Ministers when it comes to legal projects that have a certain time limit. You see, we are today entering into an express procedure of the Excise Act, which the Council of Ministers referred to at the beginning of this month in parliamentary procedure by regular procedure. This means that we have in the Council of Ministers some people who do not manage this reform process at all, nor do they have in mind what is to be done within what time. I will not be able to accept this procedure without a single conclusion, which is that indeed the House of Representatives with contempt receives such a practice from the Council of Ministers and points out harsh criticisms, that this is the last time for the Council of Ministers, that is when Parliament assumes all responsibility for the implementation of certain laws, i.e. to adopt certain laws within certain deadlines and removes responsibility from the Council of Ministers. Without this conclusion, I will not be able to accept this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15636	I thank Mr. Križanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15637	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, my discussion is also on the trail of discussion from counterpart Križanović, with a question to the Council of Ministers and to all of us. How is it possible for this document to travel to us for two months? And then don't let any of them come, so they don't say what happened without asking us to settle it in 10 days. I think it's a matter of incorrection of one of the demeaning institutions. So I'm absolutely into solving this problem, but not this way, and I think we should send that message as a home. This is where we take out what they missed, because it's not home. If it was on the agenda, Dom would probably handle this. So, let me just comment on that, whether within a conclusion or some other form, how it's possible that two months of traveling paper from the Council of Ministers to us here, and that none of them will say a word about it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15638	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Palavrić, please. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15639	Maybe at first she should have said that debate with the College. I think all colleagues who criticise the time these two legislative projects were to come from the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly, are extremely long and irrational. And it's not the first time, and it's not just about this law. And we have taken the stand at the Expansive College to send a letter to the Council of Ministers requesting that the Secretariat show how people work, at least my discussion was like that, and now I repeat it. In fact, it is obvious that those who have the status of civil servants, who are obviously well protected by the State Service Act, are now not doing their job. So, I think that, and we'll hold a meeting with the Council of Ministers, possibly the Agency for State Services, and ask them to evaluate the work of civil servants and that whoever wants to work, stay in the institutions and whoever doesn't want to leave, brother. Let the people who want to work come, because here is a matter of technique. Here the Council of Ministers adopted a bunch of laws two and three months ago and the gentlemen were not able to process these laws and pass them on to Parliament. That's why it's been five days maximum, but we've really been put into a situation that because of someone's unhappiness, who I say is again protected, we suffer, the whole country suffers. And that was the reason to support that, and now, on behalf of the SDA Club, I support the proposal for a conclusion, to do these laws in this shortened procedure, and that BiH is not suffering because of any unhappiness and that, indeed, at the beginning of next year, we are dealing with these problems immediately in the secretariats.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15640	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Who gives wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15641	This time warn, rationality and economics in the work, this is all agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15642	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić, let Mrs. Ljilja Milićević be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would disagree with these colleagues criticising the council of ministers for this. The fact that we got those materials doesn't know until a day, two, now they're Christmas holidays and we'll be able to use that time if we can read them. I have to notice that this is a big step forward, because what we would have done, if we got an article 105, as we are, which is common to getting packages of system laws. Which means, I commend the Council of Ministers, there is progress and I will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15644	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15645	I apologize, but at first you take it as an intervention of a member of the Finance Commission and now I want to talk a little bit about these two laws and how to overcome the situation and how to react. First, I wouldn't agree with my predecessors who said that we should now... that it would end up being some courier or box of Pero guilty of all this. We do, it's known when he's an authorized legislator. Our speaker is the Council of Ministers. At this point, I'm not interested in the agency or the secretary and the fact that someone was sick, someone wasn't. So it's the procedure itself. It is about the way it happens that two laws that are directly related to the Tax Act of additional value come from the Council of Ministers in different time limits according to different procedures. The Excise Act is proposed under a regular procedure and this by a shortened procedure. Do, by any chance, on purpose, I really wouldn't like to re-form an investigative commission that will determine who's been hiding somewhere out there. I am therefore not interested in this, in the end, because it is my fault that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministries, is responsible. I don't want to talk to those officers and see if he has qualifications. There's someone who took him to work, who he's responsible for his work. So our address is the Council of Ministers and I support the initiative to hold a meeting with the people and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to clear these things up. Secondly, what I'm saying is, these two laws, it's good to have it left, even if it's a short time to read them, and we can react to the amendments, and I think it's necessary for us to both take steps together to agree that in the case of adoption, it means coming to a solution as we expect, to determine how these laws can come out in the Official Messenger this year, i.e. it means that it is necessary to coordinate date-to-date that the laws take effect on the day of publication in the Official Messenger. It is therefore important to keep the laws in force from 1 January. There are colleagues from the House of Peoples here, who I particularly welcome, and I hope that together, as we have so far overcome this situation and come to a law without which is not valid what we imagined at the beginning of next year, and the letter we received from the High Representative is wrongly addressed to us. That letter was supposed to refer to the Council of Ministers. I think it's wrong. The wrong address is referred to, and what we are attributed to is not standing, and this letter should be notified to those who sent us that we are not the ones who have obstructed in any segment, keeping these laws somewhere in drawers. Someone else did it. Nor has anything been arranged with us regarding these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15646	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15647	I'll be very brief. You know what, I accept this procedure with that remark my predecessors made, with one note that it was suggested by the Council of Ministers, I welcome 59. We've got an appointment plan from the High Representative, and I think from now on he's making these things, and I think we're going to be effective. And the other thing, which I would ask, is that the agenda of this next session is not only limited to this one but also to the ratification of certain agreements that have already been signed, and that's not the problem with us, so I would just ask, if they do, I know that the Presidency did, etc., so please, means with the agenda and the ratification that might go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15648	I thank you, who wants to speak further? I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues, so you've received this proposal's conclusion. I would say before proposing one amendment in the text of this proposal, here that the Extended College was actually discussing all these aspects this morning and that Mr. Belkić has every right to have it when he says that this has already been said at the session of the Extended College and the Enlargement College has decided to address one letter to the Council of Ministers and to ask for a joint meeting, here you all know on this particular topic and the issue that you spoke about today at the session. But, of course, that doesn't exclude every MP's right to speak at a session, so eventually they are sessions. I would suggest, in the name of the College, that we accept Mrs Milićević's suggestion, since she is already in communication with the relevant committee of the House of Peoples, that the session of this committee be 28th and not 27th, as it stands in this conclusion, and that everything remains the same as in the conclusion. So that's one thing. And another thing, but here's enough, I'll say this other thing after the vote. It's not about this conclusion at all. Please, I'll tell you everything later, this is the conclusion. We're voting on the conclusion. So I suggest that this text that you have, just to change this commission law, instead of 27 that it's 28. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 28 votes for, without against and 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted this text of the law as you received this morning on the benches with this change instead of the 27th that it was 28.12.2004, when it comes to committees and the House session is 29. And now, with regard to the demands of some colleagues on the agenda, I want to tell you the following. The agenda suggests chairing together with the kolegij, or College of the House of Representatives, and we will take great care of all the proposals that you have made for us here, but that will be decided by us, and you will finally make your statement. So that's one thing, there's no need to vote here at the House, because we'll discuss it when it's a session. And secondly, everything that is possible will be appreciated. It can already be said that if the agreements are ready, that they will be able to be respected. If the VAT Act is ready, and this fact will be respected, the proposal. If the Central Bank Act is ready, it will be respected. So leave the College to do its part of the job, and here I told you that as chairman, I am thinking about the agenda, and that's what the three of us are going to decide. 60 So much and thank you, regarding this item of the agenda. We're going to the fifteenth point, please be my guest. Mr. Jozo Križanović, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15649	Mr. Chairman, I really am not in the habit of objecting to the session's procedure, but in the previous debate, several proposals for conclusions were highlighted and there were several discussions on the plan. We wanted to say that this House is dissatisfied with the Council of Ministers according to this House when it comes to the terms for individual legislative proposals. You rephrase that there was a conversation at the Expansive College and there would be a letter in front of the College. That letter in front of the College I consider technical matters you know, and it's not the same conclusion of the College in an extended synergy and conclusion of this House. And therefore, I think you've made a mistake putting forward a proposal for a text that went towards calling this session without any prior indication of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15650	All right, thanks for the remark. Let me just say right now that I disagree with that remark. Mr. Križanović, first of all, I do not agree that the technical thing is a letter written by the College in an extended assembly, but that this is a fundamental thing and the other is an essential thing, with the House's decision being more difficult, I just agree with it, from the College's decision. So that's one thing. Secondly, before I put the motion to the vote, I said that I think that by the formula I explained, I reconciled everything here in the House as a proposal. So that's another thing. And the third thing, Mr. Križanović, if you insist on voting on something, then this House will plead. I'm convinced of that, and please never question your sincere intentions in running this session. Do you insist on voting on the proposal for a conclusion? And if you insist let me see what's to be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15651	I did a business intervention to point you out, I believe you didn't accept it. I want Dom to make a statement about the same conclusion that you said would go ahead of the extended college. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15652	I don't know, to see that conclusion, give it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15653	Please, you want me to write a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15654	Of course, 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15655	In the course of the session, it will be written.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15656	Thank you. We've finished this part of the agenda. Moving to the fifteenth point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the term of office of MP Munib Jusufović Dama and gentlemen, you are familiar with this subject. We had a discussion on the subject last time. We got a letter from the Electoral Commission today. It's shared. You also have a report from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I hope that the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been shared with you and we in the College have decided to propose this decision, which determines the termination of Parliament's mandate to MP Munib Jusufović at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I'm trying to unscramble. You've got the motion for a decision on the bench, here you go. Who wants to talk? No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We're voting on a motion for a decision, prepare for a vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 22 votes in favour of, 4 against, 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, has decided to suspend the parliamentary term of Munib Jusufović at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives in the text of how you got on the benches. I thank you. This is how we got to the 16th point of the agenda, that's A.16. I am in contact with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, immediately on the orders of this House, the chairman of the Council of Ministers now has a meeting with an foreign official, and will wrap up the meeting in about 15 minutes. We can expect him around 4:00 here. And let's see how we move on now. I'm taking a break, except for Vinko Zorić's word for it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15657	I suggest we postpone this point, because there is no proposing this point. There isn't. The promoter isn't in the hall, which is why, I mean, I suggest we postpone this agenda. I voted for this point and because we are some in preparation for the holidays and we are going to interrupt those holidays to do two very important things, I think it's correct because we have to wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15658	Can we accept Mr. Vink Zorić's proposal? I thank Mr. Zorić, and let's say we have a session on 29th, and then it's 29th, so we don't wait for the chairman, so let's say the first point be over. 62 Can we accept? Who's up for this proposal? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives, with 23 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions, please have a nice, sit down, please, we haven't made a decision, sit down. No decision. Hold on a second. And without enough entity majority to make a decision. Shall we agree on the three of us, then, to be the 29th? So, I'm informing you, even though we don't have a sufficient entity majority, the College has reached agreement and it's a session, the continuation of this session is 29. Then comes the next session, the one we agreed on, and the sequel is just this point we're delaying right now, and it's going to be at the beginning of the 29th. So much, thank you for today. See you on the 29th, you'll get a call for a session. The seat was interrupted at 1545 hours. 63 Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all and ask you to take your seats. I call upon Parliament's service to inform those present in the hallway to enter the O.R. Time's up about ten, fifteen minutes, the way we were supposed to start working. So everyone in the O.R. goes in to get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 48th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. I welcome once again, I welcome here the present members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. The 16th item of the agenda is Ad.16. Information from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers on reform implementation activities following the resignation of ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina I would like to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15660	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just want to start by saying that since there were certain media speculations why we didn't have my information at the last session, I was sitting and waiting for the point to come to the agenda and then I found out that because at that moment there were no promoters that you had been prolonging for this session. As far as I can tell, there's no proposings again, and there's probably a need to provide you with one piece of information as you called it about the state of reform in light of the resignations submitted. As you know, the key package of reform laws that this council of ministers has offered Parliament from the programme of measures that stemmed from the feasibility of the study is, when it comes to the Council of Ministers being completed sometime in the middle of this year and 45 laws have been sent to parliamentary procedure. Of which 30 laws have already entered into force and we are now working on implementing these laws. Seven laws were passed in both homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly in a variety of texts, so they are currently in line by commissions. Two laws were passed in the House of Representatives, and they are not in the House of Peoples and 6 laws are currently in parliamentary procedure. I will tell you that the current state of implementation of these laws, which also means the current state of our relations with the feasibility of the study and our relationship with the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations, is essentially very good. Key elements for implementation refer to laws that have 64 regulated the registration of business entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the Law on fitto pharmaceuticals, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material of Agricultural Plants, the Law on the Protection of New Plants. We have established a Competition Council, as long as implementation implies and the Competition Council assumes its role, i.e. to regulate the internal market in a unique manner by regulating the behaviour of market participants, concentration and abuse of dominant position, and prohibiting anti-corruption agreements. So it's all one package of activities that should basically provide Bosnia and Herzegovina with what we've been talking about for years, which is protection, legal protection and by the rules of the VTO and by the rules of the European Commission of the Bosnian Herzegovina market. In this context, we also have the Law on the Implementation of the Market Surveillance Act and the Act on General Product Safety, the Food Act, and all of these are elements that lead us to the unification of economic space, so their implementation of the unification of economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We really expect that by implementing these laws in March of the month when it comes, when we have the CTF with the European Commission and when we will do an analysis of everything we have done in the implementation of the conditions of the feasibility study, we will achieve the result that the CTF proposes to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers to the European Commission to start negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina in signing Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Surely these negotiations will be and this contract will be a key basis for our and political but also for economic action in 2005. Surely, after the decision of the High Representative and the American Embassy, that they were actually the reasons why you sought this item of the agenda. I must say that after those decisions, the political ambience in Bosnia and Herzegovina was filled with emotions and that we came in a position not to have a political ambience for intensive work on the reforms we had during 2004. Two ministers and one deputy also took resignations to the country when the country's foreign minister resigned has a problem and it is certain that it can be said that the government itself is entering a crisis. However, since we have various connotations about such a situation, I must say that we cannot view it as something that is particularly Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the current parliamentary majority. It's a situation where every country in the world has a problem, so we objectively have a problem. I think it is very important to say today for me, but it is important for you as a top authority that the reasons why ministers resigned is not the work of the Council, not the work of the chairman-in-Office minister, but is one reaction to the international community's decision to take care of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we can't look for the causes of the current situation in the work of the Council of Ministers as some try to do. During the two years, the Council of Ministers held 73 regular sessions and 4 extraordinary sessions, between a thousand and a thousand two hundred decisions. No decision was made without the full consent of the Serbian people, and no reform of the law, no law, no decision that went in the direction of regulating internal relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina was made without the full consent of the Republika Srpska government. We had several decisions that, for which we spent 4-5 months even though they were prepared because we had a negative view of the Republika Srpska government according to these decisions and did not go into action until we agreed with the Government of Republika Srpska. 65 So, the Council of Ministers did not make an absolutely no move that did not have a complete consensus. In this case, I am talking about the government of Republika Srpska and the representatives of the Serbian people because this situation that we are in has arisen from the fact that a political entity from Republika Srpska PDP has made a decision and its ministers and deputies have resigned. Surely, if we are talking about overall work, then representatives of the Croatian people probably had arguments to speak against the Council of Ministers, because we have passed the Higher Education Act by voting, which is also legally allowed in the Council of Ministers' Law to appoint representatives of the Croatian people. So, for the situation that we currently have absolutely do not bear the responsibility of either the Council of Ministers or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I think it is an important element that you should know when you receive this information. We adopted the budget yesterday. I think that we have also shown how serious, no matter how different and no matter how anyone has taken the decision of the High Representative, what kind of reaction he has made, I think we have shown that we are a serious parliamentary majority and that what is crucial to Bosnia and Herzegovina and in such emotions, the atmospheres we can spend. I only hope that today, at this session and the meeting of the House of Peoples and all MPs and delegates with the same seriousness, they will approach the 2005 budget and that by the New Year, we will have adopted a budget so that we can finance all those newly formed institutions so that we can accept both the salary and the metric costs of that employee institution that we have received through the transfer of intelligence from entity level to state level. How's that? I think these days it shows that we can move on if we solve the element by element. The key element that we need to address at this point, and I think we all need to take responsibility for it is that we get the government of Republika Srpska as soon as possible. So without the government of Republika Srpska or the Council of Ministers can't make decisions that will be a full consensus. The Council of Ministers can't go on in the reform process either, and that's the most important thing that should happen to me. When the issue of the Republika Srpska government is resolved, then we will probably have a clearer position whether it will be necessary to change something within the Council of Ministers, or not. So I also call on all political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to focus our attention and energy on those things that are a priority at the moment, and it is a priority that both entity governments and the Council of Ministers continue jointly to implement reforms and continue together to lead Bosnia and Herzegovina safely on the European path. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15661	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, for the information he submitted to the House of Representatives at the request of the House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think we should take note of this information and this way end this item of the agenda. I think that would be the best way to end this session and move to the 49th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I'm here, so I don't want to have a discussion about this information. We were looking for information and we got that information. However, here from the College there are demands, the College agrees 66 with this, this is the position of the College so that if someone has a brief question to ask that question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. A brief question please do not open the debate and not spread the debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15662	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, MPs, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and esteemed Ministers, the esteemed guests, is very difficult to take part in the debate after such a lack of information, but the opening presentation of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, does not take part in this debate. I don't think we have the right to do this for the sake of the public who's been caught up in various information and misinformation these days. I agree with and so I'll take my right to talk about this and ask a few questions to the Prime Minister so I can make things clearer for me. I agree that there may not be a crisis in the parliamentary majority here, but on the scene, a deep crisis has had to, and we have come to the situation that we do not have the most prominent representatives of the government, but we have public entertainers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is the most tragic knowledge that could have happened. I think that the situation generated by irresponsible behavior has come into the situation in various ways that actors under the allegations of crisis, the prime minister says the question whether or not there is a crisis, no longer asking whether they want to go in or out. And again Bosnia and Herzegovina will get a solution to sleep cat and mouse without touching each other. And I think the solutions we had last year were not Bosnia and Herzegovina's walk towards Euro-Atlantic integration, but rolling or pushing. And I think we have done a good part of the job, but the reforms have been interpreted by the authorities as a matter of morality, not as a matter of objective needs and good citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why this is public service. Reforms are coming, laws are being passed, but it's not good for anyone. From Banja Luka, and I think that an attempt to replace the thesis, if anyone thinks that the crisis exists, should be tied to the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Council of Ministers, then we have already agreed that the crisis can be generated whenever anyone wants to. So I think this closes your eyes to what's going on in the Council of Ministers. If every time there is a crisis of the cantonal government, the government of the Federation, the government of Republika Srpska is an earthquake of state institutions, then it's another sign. And I think, of course, I'm not here to invoice the responsibility of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I know what kind of situation it is. But I have a feeling that the representatives of the parliamentary majority from Banja Luka yesterday came up with one position, and in Sarajevo they have another position and the public must know, so yesterday a Council of Ministers meeting was held at which all ministers and those who have resigned and did not have one. So there's no crisis if you look at that formal thing. But I guess I'm also asking if the chairman of the Council of Ministers has a clear position if he schedules a Council of Ministers meeting tomorrow, so yesterday it was discussed in the Presidency. I think it was necessary today that the members of the Bureau were here together with the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers schedules a meeting tomorrow, will it have a quorum and whether this is a fictitious overcoming of the crisis with the intention of generating it and continuing. So what do we do? Are we going to use the crisis to swallow some legal projects today to open the crisis in January? Who needs her? Why the crisis in the first place? To say today here is good for the Srbin, but we have made a decision against the Hrvat. And that says something's wrong. Why did we make a decision against the Hrvat? Could we not have brought it? And that raises the question. 67 So, the Council of Ministers was doing well now, and when it was the Law on Higher Education, it worked badly and made a decision by voting against a nation. And we need to see why we're doing it. Is it the Council of Ministers or something wrong, something needs to be rewritten. So you have to look at the truth here. I'm sorry, so I'm not happy that the Council of Ministers is in this situation, but I don't think it's
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15663	I'm asking you to focus on the question. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15664	I'll ask now. So I'm asking the Prime Minister if yesterday the ministers were left behind, is that resignation no longer valid? If people attended the session, do they think that... that's why I'm sorry I'm not going to ask them. So if someone resigned and came to the Council of Ministers' meeting, is that a sign that resignation is no longer valid? People work normally. But yesterday's press conference, in which the prime minister says he needs to determine whether there is a crisis at all, and that a member of the presidency and the chairman come out and say that he is just entering a crisis. It can't be alarming for this Parliament, too, please. If we think we're going through this, and we're going to open a debate in January, then I don't think we're doing a good thing. And if this crisis is meant to be overcome as the prime minister warns that today we are swallowing legal projects that have been waiting for some procedure to open up a debate on the crisis, then it is also disabling to the public. So, my question to the prime minister -- does he appreciate that the ministers who resigned, resigned if they were in the session yesterday? Will she have a quorum at the session tomorrow? What if he's not there, and today we say there's no crisis. So did we get all the input elements that as a state Parliament we assess whether there is a crisis or not? And I think, given what the public entertained these days, it was my turn for members of the Bureau to be here today. Yesterday they spoke and we could hear from them if, in itself, the crisis is if the prime minister says I don't know if there's a crisis, and the chairman of the presidency says we've just drowned in the crisis. I think we need to clearly define political entities that want the crisis to last. So we have to have an answer - is it over or is it going on? If it lasts in which way it will be overcome. And I don't think anyone has the right to play with the state parliament or Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there's no first word we'll wait here while you in Banja Luka solve the problems. It means there are crisis generators coming from Banja Luka. The second thing, I think, is that I want to say that the prime minister must be ready for both Bosnia and Herzegovina to take over the obligations we gave her through the laws. I am not in favour of sending invoices to Republika Srpska without mechanisms in Sarajevo. Here you are, gentlemen, when you're suspected of war crimes, you're doing your job. You all have, how will Republika Srpska capture war crimes suspects if they have a state-level intelligence service? Who's gonna give her the information? So are we going to take over, fax to the address of the responsibility where the mechanisms are, or will we continue to go with the thesis, attribute the crisis and say – you from Republika Srpska. So I'm not defending the Republic of Serbia, I think I'm defending the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take their responsibilities, and I'm not going to blame myself where mechanisms don't exist or where they're taking over. 68 I think that in April, the invoice comes to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is why it is not time to play both representatives of government, entity and state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a gentlemen's game with both. If anyone thinks they'll only get one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15665	Please, Mr. Špirić, bring him in, Mr. Špirić, please. These are the questions. These are not discussions. I beg of you, you're a member of the College, so we agreed here in the College and I accepted. Please, allow me to finish, so I accepted, and the College accepted your suggestion to ask questions, not to conduct discussions. And please act accordingly and bring your discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15666	So let Parliament declare itself. I ask you to put it to the vote whether Parliament will debate or we will say, as a goose in the fog, okay - there is no crisis, let's go. Here's the vote. If people vote, I can only kill myself. I don't mind. Let's put it to a vote. Are we going to discuss it or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15667	I thank Mr. Špirić. Please, for a moment, Mr. Chairman, you will be given the opportunity to say what you have to say. I call on Parliament once again. This item of the agenda shall bear the title – Information from the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. We took note of the information and we agreed only to complete the possible fill-in of information that colleagues have the right to ask short questions and after the final address of the Chair of the Council of Ministers there will be closures. By taking note of this information. And please behave accordingly. We can spend all day discussing these issues today, but remember that we have a hard work to do today on laws that need to be adopted by New Year's Eve. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, about how you as a College function, that's how everything works in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's what you gentlemen agreed on, then you should respect that agreement, and we respect that agreement of yours. So the SDS Club respects that deal. We don't think we should be having this debate today, but if we're going to lead, of course we're ready to have a debate. Whoever makes him happy for years, that's another question and that's not the subject here today, and we shouldn't be opening such questions as we wouldn't need many questions Mr. Špirić opened here today to open. And I wasn't in the last session of Parliament. But if the aim here is to determine whether there is a crisis or not, and I realized that Parliament is not intended to determine whether there is a crisis or not, but if the objective is then we must open the debate and then we must talk about both the causes and the consequences of the crisis. 69 I believe that Parliament should not determine whether there is a crisis or not and that it is a subjective matter. Parliament is not the one who challenged if there is, nor who at this time can solve it if there is one. So it doesn't really make sense that we're having a debate about this, and I support the College's proposal, but I do ask that, then, as he has arranged, the College does. Otherwise, he's gonna give us all a chance now to get into this debate that we're not, and I think I need it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15669	I thank Mr. Novaković. The decision, please, Mr. Šporić, wait a minute. So the college's decision is very clear. It's only allowed for colleagues to ask a brief question. There's no discussion to get as complete as possible, every question is to get as much information as possible and it's in the spirit of this agenda point. And I ask you to behave like this and I, as chairman, will be holding a session in accordance with this decision of the College. Mr. Špirić, you have only, very briefly, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15670	In line with what counterpart Novaković said there was no debate. I just want to ask, so the chairman said that what happened was not a product of the Council of Ministers' work but of the international community. Does it mean that the Council of Ministers worked well and that the international community made a mistake? And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15671	Thank you. We've got a few more people on board. Are you going to answer right now? You'll be right there. You have the right to do that. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15672	Well, I think it makes no sense for me to take my word for it after these words and conclusions. I understand that Mr Špirić has a huge frustration on how to distinguish the position from the opposition MP and member of such a respected College as the College of the House of Representatives. And there needs to be enough energy to get everything, so that all these conflicts are internally overcome. But first and foremost, I don't think he's allowed to tell the truth here. So Terzić did not say that the Council of Ministers is not wrong, that the international community is guilty, but that the Council of Ministers did not cause the resignations of ministers that were submitted. So they resigned because they oppose how the Council of Ministers works, but for some other reasons. And if you need this position here to use for your political purposes, I have finally invited all political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina not to be the generators of the crisis. And you belong to those Mr. Špirić who are the absolute generators of the crisis and who enjoy themselves here and because of the objective problems we have. It is not true that I did not, that I said that the crisis did not exist, but the question now is whether we need anything for Bosnia and Herzegovina and our European path means a precise definition of how you insist on whether what happens in the Council of Ministers is a crisis or a problem or so on. Two ministers, one deputy and one political entity from the ruling parliamentary majority, have retreated and, of course, it is a problem and you can call it a crisis. But now the key question is how to solve it, not how else to generate that crisis. It is not true that the question here had to be asked how reforms were being asked. We took our mandates seriously even your pre-election pamphlets. And you're your supporters who came to your pre-election meetings to convince you that your option is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to go to the European Union. And every political entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina did it. Since we took Bosnia as a black hole on the European map, we could only offer reforms that meant not a matter of having to do what someone wanted, but a matter of how to make your pre-election promises come true. And every reform is actually based on the introduction of European standards in society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that while chairing that, while respecting the College, since these are not, it is not a parliamentary watch to answer questions, while respecting the College, I have no intention, especially of provoking what kind of real Mr. Špirić, I have no intention of answering. And just as he's following my press conferences, so I'm following his, his media appearances, so unfortunately I had a chance to see last night as he warns that the entity's border could turn into a state border. And it reminds me of some of his predecessors, and I was just waiting for him to threaten one nation to disappear.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15673	Thank you. Please, please, you'll get the word. Please, I'll do it one more time, please wait a minute. So I repeat once again that the agenda item is the Information of the Council of Ministers Chairman and that the issues allowed are extremely important, so if someone needs to complete the information. It is not the purpose of today to hold a debate on the work of the Council of Ministers and on any other subject. There's a way and a way to do it. Please, and don't put me in a position to take the words here at the pay phone, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to go and bring this item to the agenda and go to the next session. I must give my word to Mr. Špirić. You have Mr. Špirić a minute, please very briefly and let him prepare then Mr. Moranjkić to post Mr. Potočnik's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15674	I must say, I didn't think this would come down to the controversy between me and Prime Minister Terzić. Part of my story didn't go that way. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that the prime minister is always trapped to enter the controversy. My story wasn't about controversy. I don't have any frustrations, and if it's just my frustrations, and SNSD didn't have any pamphlets, this country would have had a sincere desire to speed up Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to Euro-Atlantic integration and make its contribution the most serious contribution. If you inherited this country as a black hole, don't make a hole out of it. That's what I'm warning you. And on the way to unfortunately make it out of this country, we're already closing our eyes to 71 real states. And I won't discuss it any further. Let the message go that there is no Council of Ministers crisis, that everyone is doing well, that we will be waiting for the next good year, but if reality disenfranchises you in January, then I don't know if it makes any sense to lead the polemics at all, and I don't want to disrupt the atmosphere in the College of course, that's not my goal, and I didn't realize that today is going to be the polemics of me and Adnan Terzić. And as for the inter-entity line, I said that all those who have a desire to go into reform with negativity, and risk that the inter-entity line that needs to be relaxed, will be relatively relativated, unfortunately the state line is deepening. That is why I warn you not to do well in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This line will deepen power, not Nikola Špirić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15675	Thank you. Of course you can. Here you go. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15676	So I don't know if we're listening here to each other. We can't talk about the deepening of the inter-entity line into the state line and you didn't say, unfortunately, that you said, well, somehow I would, but you literally said it would go further into the interstate line. Reforms and decisions made by the Council of Ministers for which we had the full agreement of all representatives of the Serbian people in the Council of Ministers and the absolute full consent of the Republika Srpska government. In this context, I am talking about the work of the Council of Ministers and I, in this context, want to extract the Council of Ministers from all this talk that is present in the political sky of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as I say, the Council of Ministers has a problem when the government of Republika Srpska does not work and when the government of Republika Srpska is left behind, so did I when we had a crisis in the Federation government. Because the reforms in the way we lead mean that the three governments work together and then there are no elements to say that the Council of Ministers is working against the interests of one, the other, the third people and against the interest of even the entities because we absolutely support the consensus by making every decision. And if that's how we set things up, then we can be the ones who don't have a crisis, but we're trying to solve it where it is. And right now, for me, it's a crisis because I don't have the government of Republika Srpska. For me, it is also a huge problem that I have left behind by the foreign minister, that in the resignation of the Minister of Transport and Communications and the Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs. But what is important at this point, they do perform their tasks and your question about the information of the oreforms in light of the resignations submitted is, they may get an answer that the ministries are working on reforms, implementing reforms, and that at this point I, Mr Špirić, will not call myself Council of Ministers, that's my business. That can be discussed, but I don't want to be called the Council of Ministers to further generate the crisis. But every ministry is absolutely working and every ministry is carrying out its legal and constitutional obligations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15677	Thank you, Chairman Terzić. I'd like to ask you colleagues a very short one. Mr. Moranjkić, Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Živković spoke of the word. I have those three applications. 72 here you are, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15678	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I realized this point quite differently when she was set up and I see normally that she went a little and a little left and a right from what I expect of this. That's why I, I didn't want to give up on asking questions so that practically someone would correct me, whether I was right or wrong in my thinking. First. I realized the question in this context that the chairman, let's say in the form of a report, tells us whether in this state and this state, which, in a certain way, presents to the public in several versions, is a difficult situation for him, not to say the crisis, in the context of further work on implementing reform activities. From the law, the implementation of decisions and lives and what they are and in this context to say gentlemen in Parliament help me, for now I think this is coming into your context and we're helping you come out of this together, let's say the situations that have arisen and I'm not looking and I'm not asking you here by mistake. Whether by the error of Mr. Chairman, whether international communities, whether or not someone's external etc. etc. In that context, I thought I'd refer two such concise questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15679	Thank you. Here, I'd like to ask you so briefly, so in a minute, a minute and a half, who has a question to ask. In the end, we're going to ask the chairman to give the answer and end this point that way, the agenda point. The following Mr. Mladen Potočnik appeared for the word, and let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared. One minute to one-and-a-half, please. We have a 49th session today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15680	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, my question is simple and I want a simple answer now or not. Mr. Terzić, as chairman, you know exactly what functions to be satisfied with that the Council of Ministers functions normally, and I only want an answer to that question – is it in crisis or is it not in the crisis of the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15681	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić. Let him prepare, I apologize to Mr. Živković, you answered, you raised your hand, but here I was warned, I had here on Mr. Gligorić's monitor before you were reported, so that's why I gave him my word. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15682	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in line with your recommendation, that is, the position of the College here I will really take care to ask only two questions, although as far as the information is concerned, I would like to join Mr. Moranjkić that he may have had to conduct the debate, since he is under the impression that this is the way the College is actually covering up the problem and he wants to win the time. No, we're not talking about it. My first question for Mr. Chairman is – since we have public and secret work on the scene, if there is a secret agreement, do you, in that case, consider it possible for the Council of Ministers as Government to function in a technical sense? If it works in a technical sense, do you feel that you can implement reforms because we need to distinguish technical mandates from full capacity? That's the first question. Second question. Given that you have resigned from the Presidency in time, given the problems surrounding the VAT Act, that you have then had a stable Council of Ministers, that now after the resignations of two ministers and the announced resignations, if you appoint a Council of Ministers by Mr Radovanović, in that case there is only one Minister, Mr Slobodan Kovač, who does not want to resign, and under the Council of Ministers Act you must have at least 2 ministers in order to be able to work at full capacity, do you, in that case, think that you, then, would not advocate Zlatko, that you should then resign because you cannot work under technical then. Since you said the ministries are working, according to the Council of Ministers' Law, the responsibility of the ministries and the responsibility of the Council of Ministers or Government, for example in this case, is known. Therefore, I would ask that I get a really concrete answer, not buy time, or that the secret arrangements want to get some sensitive consent and that everything works like nothing happened. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15683	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Okay, well, okay, thanks for respecting the weather. Mr. Milorad Živković has his word and let Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević be prepared. I still have her reported. I'm sorry, after that, Mr. Filip Andrić. Andrić doesn't have you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15684	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I understood that we were in that session when this item of the agenda was suddenly voted upon, the chairman came with oral information and had no time to prepare. But I've been expecting enough time to start this session so we can get written information, and I think written information is much better, because we wouldn't spend this much time clearing up the individual terms. It's not clear to me now whether there's a crisis or a term there's a problem. And it would have been much, much better for me if it had been written. Also, some words that the chairman said here 74 are not as clear to me as if the Council of Ministers is not responsible for the work so far, and it is about reforms. I would ask you, so today precisely because of your sloppyness in the work and the Council of Ministers today's session we have past the Rules of Procedure and this Parliament any position, any opposition has taken over to work all day, to take breaks, to meet committees, to work in parallel with the House of Peoples so that these laws that came to the Excise Act and the Tax Act come on the agenda. I think you should have done it a long, long time ago. Not to mention the chairman of the budget. You said yourself there was a budget last night. Under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, this parliament was due to discuss the budget by 15 November. There's one responsibility you have to accept and you can't come out and say you didn't have any responsibility. It's very important for us here to tell us if the reforms are late? Why are reforms late? What are your moves to speed up these reforms? We talked about the political consensus, we talked about that the financial framework for proposed reforms does not exist and that we don't know it today, and I'm also interested in it when the Council of Ministers will work at full capacity. The SNSD Club will not vote for this and this kind of information, and we ask that written information on this item of the agenda be delivered at the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15685	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15686	Gentlemen chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members and guests, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to first actually feel this point of the agenda, but the corresponding story that could be heard here was actually that my expectations in this agenda point were something else. And they were on the trail of a one-way deal that was reached at an extended college at one of the previous sessions where we concluded that there was a need to work together more together and work together. It means that we are in progress with legal projects, that we are more bound up, not only do we appear here as one House, as Parliament, as firefighters, or when it burns well, then it's you who should do it, because for God's sake everything is going down. So I'm not going to point out the criticisms that my colleague Živković mentioned, why certain legal solutions were late, why some things happen at the last minute. I think it takes an open conversation and perhaps an open session where ministers from the Council of Ministers will come along with the chairman and where we will ask questions and see where we are. Why? For the reason that we have all agreed here, signed the document that we have pledged to be all of us is actually meant for solutions that are in line with our desire for European Euro-Atlantic integration, and I believe that we are on that background and that no one has jumped too far from it. I expected the president's report today to actually hear how many laws we have in the process, how much in preparation, what it is we're late in, what we haven't achieved, what we do next year. That's why I think it takes one thematic session, and I suggest in early 2005 that we round up what we did this year or that we agree together 75 in the work programme what we do in the next... not to come into some of the situations that were going on here. As for the conditions in which the Council of Ministers is operating now, look, I'm not going to make it out of the press and not follow the press conference, because for me it's not, for me it's official information that I hear here and in writing what is said. In principle, I don't even have to believe what I read in any newspaper. I know it's never been easy for you to work. You see here, honey and milk have never run.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15687	Mrs. Milićević, please bring only the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15688	So this one, I know he's having a hard time working, but I hope at this next meeting, that we'll sit together, expose you to further work, what it is that we do. And in that light, I suggest a theme session where we discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15689	I would like to thank Mrs. Milićević, Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am encouraged by the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this issue in his opening statement. From his opening statement that it is normal to conclude that when it is revoted in the Council of Ministers of the Croatian People, or Croatian Ministers, ministers of the Croatian people, it is not normal if ministers from other peoples are revoted. So I ask him, if that is normal, then did he consider that he was in violation of the constitutional provisions of the equality of the people? And if he thinks it's not normal, then I ask him why he's doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15691	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić has asked for another word and after that he has the word of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if he wants to, and we will conclude this item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15692	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, dear guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to express my dissent with the way simply elaborate and approach this issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have the feeling that questions are being sent partly to the wrong address, that we do not have the basic entities to discuss the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is primarily representatives of the international community, Mr Eždaun and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. It would be an assembly that could answer certain questions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 76 Second, the second issue is also the parliamentary majority must tell Bosnia and Herzegovina what Bosnia and Herzegovina can expect in 2005. And in this context achieves political consensus and for this reason means I speak again, or I repeat – this, I think, questions that are asked today to be questions for the next thematic session. I agree with my colleague Ljilja, simply who will have these three subjects and simply do everything for ourselves to look the truth in the eye to the end. Do not, through the Council of Ministers, send individual ministers their resignations simply to the international community, etc. etc. Not to elaborate that condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15693	I thank Mr. Sead Avdić. Thank you, dear colleagues. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers have the need to address the speaker once more? If you need anything, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15694	It is not clear to me that the chairman is asking the question that MPs are asking me questions and after 5-6 questions, you ask me if I need to answer or not. If the College has decided that I have to answer, then I have to go. I'll go Izić and make it clear. So we basically have a situation that is clear to everyone in this room. It's just a question of what it's like to watch and what it's like to get what from it. Some want destabilisation and the Council of Ministers, some want new elections, some want to buy time to solve some of their problems, some want to change the parliamentary majority, etc. So we can set things up like this and I'll definitely set it up like this. Unfortunately for me, I have resigned 2 ministers in which I worked and co-operated for two years, carried out reforms, and I have no political ambience to go into the procedure for the appointment of others. And I expect, as we agreed yesterday, together with the president that both the presidency and other political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina will do everything possible to bring about the normalisation of the environment as soon as possible and to continue working with reforms. I don't think the reforms are compromised and the reforms are on the agenda in 2005 and we're going to get a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and we're going to get to erasure entity lines when the market and economic system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-22-0.u15695	I thank the chairman, Mr. Terzić. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we heard the information of President Terzić, you heard, you asked questions, you heard the answers to the questions asked. We've taken that into account. I'm closing this agenda item and I'm closing the 48th session. 77 I'm taking a 15-minute break, I'm giving a 15-minute break for the 49th session. Thank you. Resumption of the 48th session is completed at 11.15 p.m.
