ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3063	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of the public information sessions, all present, welcome you and open the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session, of which all five from the Bosniak people, four from the Croatian people and four from the Serb people. Mr Filipović justified his absence today, as you are familiar with Mr Spasojević, by decision of the High Representative removed and is no longer a member of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Here, I will take the opportunity to inform you that I have sent a letter to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in accordance with the Constitution, should propose a new delegate from the order of the Serbian people and we expect them to do so at the next session, which is scheduled to take place on Tuesday. So for today's 26th session, I suggest the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 25th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Confirming the appointment of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing a power transmission company Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing an independent transmission system operator in BiH, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, 7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Statistics Act, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 2 9. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 10. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 11. A request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers for BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 12. 13. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 14. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruit Material for Agricultural Plants of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Immigrants, 12 / 15 Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act, first reading 16. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's security situation, 17. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work, 18. Report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise "The Official Journal of BiH", according to an annual account for the period 2003, 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the conditions of travel of citizens of the two states, 20. Giving cognition for ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Albania, 21. Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Bulgaria on Free Trade, 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on Cross-border Television (ETC132), open for signature in Strasbourg on 5 May 1989, with the Protocol amending the European Convention on Cross-border Television opened for acceptance on 1 October 1998, 23 October 1998. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention for the Establishment of a European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organisation EPPO) of 18 April 1951, with the Council's additions of 27 April 1995, 9 May 1962, 18 September 1968, 19 September 1973, 23 September 1982, 21 September 1988 and 15 September 1999, 24 September 1999. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period from 28 December 2003 to 18 June 2004 I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Mr. Šiljegović answers his word and I give it to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3064	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Club of Serbian Delegates, is proposing to amend and supplement the agenda with one point. Regardless of what you have sent a letter to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the urgent proposal of delegates to the House of Peoples, we do not know whether it will be at the first session of the NS and we suggest 3 that, under point 4 we may also complete the committee of the peoples of the Serb people, as delegates of Spasojević Zoran. In fact, we believe that by the committees of our home, this Defence Security and Administrative Financial need has arisen, we are in difficulty because of the quorum, to fill in, and when the National Assembly proposal comes on a new delegate, the Club of Serbian Delegates will carry out one rationalisation. It will be a burden for the three of us, but we want to build the full capacity of these commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3065	I thank Mr. Šiljegović for his proposal. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3066	President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, I would first of all like to thank my colleagues, who has put very often on the agenda, giving consent to the ratification of the Convention, the European Convention on Peco-border Television, which I think is very important to implement parliamentary procedures, so that the adoption of the law on public service and the public television system of BiH can take place in the ambience of the signing of the Convention on Peco-border TV. That's one thing. The second thing, perhaps this is an opportunity to call on the College and, of course, all of us, that, given the deadlines that await us and the events that await us in September, to try to achieve procedural assumptions to meet their requirements by the end of September, regarding the Physical Study. It is known that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed a huge number of laws from those obligations for the Physibilities of the Study and all that has come into parliamentary procedure, with the parliamentary Assembly's prepared assumptions adopted significant core legal projects, remains one number of laws, which have been prepared and where there are no essential issues of a difficult nature, where mostly issues of procedure to meet the deadlines by the end of September. I think that this rest of July would be used to achieve as many procedural assumptions as possible to meet these obligations by the end of September. I believe that the College is taking care of it, but the Bosniak Club is today, talking about... having one more warning here about these laws, and together we evaluate and express our willingness to realize these all-probability assumptions in order to meet our obligations. As for the proposal from the chairman of the Serbian delegates' club, to put this item on the agenda, I think it's very important that we put it on the agenda today. We support that the commissions be filled in, that one of the conditions is provided as effectively as possible, only I believe that when my colleague Šiljegović said the three of us, he was thinking of us, with one correction, I accept this agenda. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3067	I'd like to thank my colleague Genc. Is anyone else answering for word? Here's a little consultation here within the College, and here we support this proposal and would it be the fourth item of the agenda, so this full committee from the House of Peoples. Since the multiple has not responded, I will now open a vote on this agenda proposal. So you can vote now, complemented, of course. I find the agenda unanimously adopted by 13 votes in favour. We're going to the 1st point of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answers to delegate questions were: Osman Brka and Hilmo Neimarlija. Are delegates satisfied with the answer? Would you like to speak to your colleague, Brka?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3068	Yeah, I'm content with getting a partial answer. Namely, I'm pleased with the procedure and with what everyone did to the organs they were supposed to do. However, I am not satisfied with the way, he says, there were no tragic consequences, so it seems that no one will answer for anything. I'm not happy with that part, because I think there's someone there to answer for, but that's what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3069	I thank my colleague, Brk. Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3070	Of course, I thank the service that worked hard for the congregation to give me an answer. Of course, I'm not satisfied with the content of the answer, partly because it doesn't answer my question. This is a good answer, but apparently on some slightly different-placed drinking, it's not on mine. With my question, I wanted to draw attention to just one ugly thing at the door, which can be more elegant and beautifully solved and I'm not satisfied if, who saw this answer, will agree with me, that I failed, seems to convince the responsible people in the Assembly, who were responsible for this downstairs which should have been solved, that instead of the board can take some bicycle chain or some similar thing, and that much more elegantly solved, without the need for the introduction of new staff and this response reminded me and let me just say the situation, but not in Southeast Europe, the Balkans in BiH, but in Chicago 20 years ago, there was a channel on one of the lakes being closed, buried, and the authorities asked to offer them the price of channel cleaning. The army created an elaborate and the price was $750,000. They made a public tender and they found the company that did it for $25,000. This answer, therefore, reminded me of this case, when the army made this elaborate on cleaning one channel so that it would take $750,000, I suggested just to remove the board and get rid of ten marks instead of a board with a ten-mark chain. And, I call on the chair as the 5th host of the BiH Assembly, which is also better than I am directed to understand this problem, to help remove that brother board and replace it with some chain of bicycles.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3071	I thank Mr. Neimarlija, because, really, I promise here once again that I will try to solve this problem and it really stings my eyes and it's the mockery of this building one of the mockery. A little more goodwill can fix a lot and create a better picture of us here. So, any new delegate questions? Mr Tomislav Limov. You can go from place to place, so we don't waste any time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3072	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it is more handsome from the post, prje I ask the parliamentary questions, there will be two of them, I would like to welcome all of my distinguished colleagues, Mr. Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of BiH, the representative of the international community, because if anyone has, therefore, I welcome them, and I particularly welcome the representatives of the public information funds, of course, at the last session, I have raised one delegation question, if you remember, it referred to an update or better to the obligation to update the document Security Policy of BiH. The question has been asked to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. The intention was, in a certain way, to target the focus of our activities and to analyse the realization of the conclusions and other documents brought by the House of Peoples, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as a whole. So today I will post a question in this direction and remind you that at the 13th session held on 29 October 2003, we adopted the Resolution "Bought Homely". Two of the following conclusions were adopted on that occasion. First, to deliver the resolution to the House of Representatives, so that the House of Representatives can adopt a constitutional text, and drugi, that the Council of Ministers make a proposal for a campaign to realise the resolution "Bought domestic". Since it was in line with Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the College shall be directly invited, i.e. in charge of co-operation with the House of Representatives. I would like to know if our college and the College of the House of Representatives have ever discussed the need for the resolution "Bought Home" to be discussed at the session of the Parliamentary House of BiH? Besides, I want to ask the College a clear next short question. Whether or not the results of the 13th session of the People's House were realized by the adoption of the Resolution "Bought Home" and, as I said earlier, with the College of the Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the second conclusion of our 13th session, the Council of Ministers, to which I ask the following question, has been entrusted. 6 Is the Council of Ministers and how it realised the conclusion of the 13th session of the House of Peoples, which, therefore, is the Council of Ministers tasked with making a proposal for a realisation campaign Let's buy home and, if so, realisation of the Resolution "Bought domestic" and if so, why this campaign proposal was never sent to the envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3073	I thank my colleague Limov. Any more delegate questions? I don't see any reports. So I'm concluding this agenda point and we're going to move to point two. Ad.2. A record from the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Is anyone answering for a word? Since I don't see anyone registered on the display or anything like this, I'm opening a vote on the minutes of the 25th session. Now you can vote. Someone hasn't voted yet. Actually, a colleague named Čengić came out. So 12 votes for, unanimously adopted the record. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. Confirming the appointment of candidates for general positions in BiH institutions, you have received a report from the commission, as well as a list of candidates in general positions in BiH's defence institutions, the Federation of BiH and the RS military. In BiH's defence institutions: 1. Brigadir Sifet Podžić, acting Chief of the Joint Staff of BiH, 2. Colonel Slavko Puljić, acting as Deputy Commander of the Joint Job of BiH for Operations, 3. Brigadier Vlado Džojić, acting as commander of the BiH Operational Command. It's a small consultation. The proposal is to vote for everything in the package. Then I will also read about the Federation of BiH Army: 1. Brigadir Hajrudin Grabovica, acting as commander of the Federation of BiH Army, 2. pukovnik Jugoslav Brdar, acting Deputy Commander of the Joint Command of the Federation of BiH, 3. Brigadir Mirsad Gutić, acting Commander of the First Armoured Brigade of the Federation of BiH Army, 4. Colonel Anto Jeleč, acting as commander of the Second Mechanized Brigade of the Federation of BiH, for the RS Army, were proposed: 1. Major General Novak Đukić, acting Chief of Staff of the RS Army, 2. Major General Stamenko Novaković, acting as commander of the 15th Mechanised RS Army Brigade. 7 The House of Representatives confirmed the list of candidates at the 39th session, held in 18.6.2004. I'm opening a debate. We have a minister present here. Mr. Limov reporting for word. I'm giving it to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3074	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I appreciate this opportunity to say a few words, though. Of course, right away, I have no objections to the generals, and as you know, last time I said that I would in principle support everything that was planned, but, nevertheless, I feel the need to, and in some ways, to comment on a certain matter. First of all, I would like to remind you that at our session held on 29 November 2003, and that at the session of the House of Representatives held on 1 December last year, we adopted the Defence Act, which was published on 29 December last year, and practically the same took effect somewhere on 7 January. Recalling this chronology, I would like to say that this is how the Parliamentary Assembly carried out its task within the deadline. The deadline was, if you remember, the end of the year. So we have also created the most important legitimate precondition for implementing defence reform in BiH. Everything else is practically in the hands of the executive, because with this legitimate part we have also created through the budget a financial basis, so to speak, reforms. The powers to implement defence reform and all other less or more reforms, therefore, belong to the executive authorities in other areas, and in this particular case is the responsibility of the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Defence, entity governments, entity defence ministries and the military. One of the important dates that was the focus of the dynamics of our defence reform is June 28th and 29th. when the NATO summit was held in Istanbul. Before that deadline, we should have made appointments of the defence minister and prime minister and a number of generals to command positions in BiH's joint defence institutions, i.e. in the federal army and the RS military. Certain problems, this is the easiest I can say about the election of the defence minister, unnecessarily took away, not only valuable time, but also, I would say, crushed such scarce credibility, especially some participants in the process of proposing and appointing candidates for the state defence minister. We have here and I am pleased with the defence minister, that, in the first run, it was with this proposal that we, apparently, wouldn't have a problem and would get in any case at the time and, I think it's convenient to say, that in some way in the sitting, there is still the appointment of the BiH Defence Dominister. I don't know if any of you, like from your sleeves, would now be able to say the name and last name of the BiH prime minister or the BiH defence chief. It's one dimension of the process. The second dimension is the appointment of the General. I'm thinking a fifteen, practically all the names have come before us so far. It seems to me that for the last time we were a small list of candidates, it was, as I recall on the 29th practically the same day that he was in Istanbul, and it seems to me that there was also a chance that we could do our part of the job, 8 although I don't mind being bought up like this, so suddenly seven-eight, if I counted well from what Mr. Milojević read. Of course, last time I said what I thought about this problem of general production and, however, I want to say that, as for what happened in Istanbul, we saw it as a humiliation in a certain way, not only for the current government, but also for all of us in BiH and I, however, want to say that we were deceived by all those from home and, so to speak, by the international policies of individuals, who persistently claimed that we were doing well, that conditions for our country's entry into Istanbul into NATO's Partnership for Peace programme proved, therefore, that it was not convincing that, however, and finally resisting looks into foreigners, it proved that they could not take us into the euro integration. And, unfortunately, we have remained so someone wrote along with Serbia-Montenegro these days the last black hole in Europe in this segment and in this respect. I want to warn you of one more thing when I talk about this, and I'm going to ask you a direct question. Would you esteemed colleagues receive a state whose prime minister is praying in Brussels to receive us, we all promise you, etc., and on the same day the president of the same state in Sarajevo declares we do not deserve to be admitted, punish the RS. You punish a part of the country that he's in, that he's also the president. As for the candidates for the generals, I won't do anything, I'll just say it again, that I will vote in favour of the nomination of the proposed candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3075	I thank my colleague Limov. No Niko ever checked in again, I'm sorry, I'm giving the word to Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3076	Mr. Chairman, I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the extensive agenda ahead of you, I would just like to thank this opportunity for everything this House has done in the current procedure of appointment and generals, but also in the defence reform process. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in today's, therefore, conditionally speaking, to a package of nine candidates, we are also confirming the remaining candidates for general positions in the defence system, and this part of the job, hopefully, is ending. He's only doing technical correctness, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to warn you, there are probably three errors in your documents. So, Mr. Puljić Slavko, who is proposed as deputy chief of the Joint Staff of BiH, has, for operations, been a brigade since 1996, and not in the rank of colonels as read. Secondly, for the duties of the first armored-mechanised brigade of the Federation of BiH, Colonel Anto Jeleč, not Brigadier Mirsad Gutić, is proposed, as is also read, permutation for the commander of the Second Mechanised Brigade of the Federation of BiH, is proposed by Brigadier Mirsad Gutić, not Colonel Anto Jeleč, as read. I would only ask for the correctness and conclusion of this correction to be respected. In the end, therefore, I sincerely hope that your vote will confirm these candidates and that it will allow the Presidency to appoint persons to these most responsible 9 functions and that it can be done to fill out defence institutions, as established by the rules on systemization. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3077	I thank Mr. Secretary. Here, they gave me from our professional services a memo from the BiH presidency, which was signed by Sulejmen Tihć, the chairman, so just as I read it. So this is not a deliberate mistake. We respect, of course, this amendment by Minister Radovanović and since there are no more applications for discussion, I am opening the vote. You can start. I agree, unanimously, they've been chosen. I didn't want to, here's a public statement that I'm in, too, 12 for. So we unanimously confirmed the appointment of candidates for general positions in BiH's defence institutions. I now move to the next 4th item of the agenda, that is the point proposed by my colleague Šiljegović-Ad.4. A full committee from the House of Peoples from delegates in the order of the Serb people, instead of a recent delegate, Mr Zoran Spasojević, please welcome Mr Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3078	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Club of Serbian Delegates in the Administrative and Financial Commission of the House of Peoples proposes Mr. Radović nadet. In the Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the Armed Forces of BiH, Mr. Radovanović Vink. And, in the BiH Parlametre Assembly delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly of Boško Šiljegović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3079	I appreciate the suggestion. I suggest we vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3080	I suggest we vote grouply.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3081	As you wish, I don't mind. It's in the package. I respect my more experienced colleague Pamuk. So, I am opening a vote on the proposal that Mr. Boško Šiljegović made. You can vote. 10 Thank you. The vote is closed. The proposal adopted unanimously by the president of the Serbian delegates' club, Mr. Šiljegović. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. The Joint Commission's initiative to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing a power transmission company in BiH You have welcomed the Joint Commission's report. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted upon by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives adopted this report at its 41st session, held on July 14th. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm opening a vote. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the Joint Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Law has been passed, because it has been adopted in the same text in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Ad.6. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing an independent system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95 of the The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives adopted the report at the 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm opening a vote. I find that the report was unanimously adopted, and thus the Law was passed, because it was adopted in the same text in both homes. Ad.7. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100(2) The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed the Emergency Procedure Act at the 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. So now we're voting on this law under Article 100. I'm opening a vote. Thank you, 13 for, unanimously. I'm opening a debate about the law. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering. I'm opening a vote on this point. So who's up for the adoption of the law? Now you can vote. I'm saying with 13 votes, we've passed this law. The law has been passed. 11 Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Statistics of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100(2) Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered under this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed an emergency procedure law at the 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. I'm opening a vote on who's in favor of the law being considered under Article 100. Rules of Procedure. The vote is open. Unanimity, 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Now we're voting on the law. I'm opening a vote. So the law was passed unanimously. Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure are under discussion whether the law will be considered by emergency procedure. By the way, this law is in line with the House of Representatives College. Whether or not to be considered in a shortened manner or to go into regular procedure. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. Who's to be considered by the law under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity. The request will be considered by a shortened procedure. Ad.10. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Amendment Bill and the addition of the travel documents law to BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at its 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. Niko. Who's to be considered by the law under Article 99? Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? I'm opening a vote. A unanimous requirement for the law to be circulated by a shortened procedure has been adopted. 12 Ad.11. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the law at the 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. Who's answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. Who's to be considered by the law under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity 13 for, the requirement for the law to be considered under the shortened procedure was adopted. Ad.12. A request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers for BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at the 40th session held on June 25th 2004. Who's answering for a word? I don't see any reports. So, who's in favour of the law being considered by Article 99? The rules of procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, the requirement for the law to be considered under a shortened procedure was adopted. Very effective work of colleagues. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Ad.13. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of new varieties of BiH plants, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the law at the 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. Is there anyone on the phone? Niko. Thank you. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity again, 13 for. The requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. We're moving to the next 14th item of the agenda. Ad.14. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the phytosanitary means of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to set short deadlines for 13 to discuss the law at the 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. Who's answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one against and no one abstention. I find that the requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. We're going to the 15th point. Ad. 15. The Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Seeds and Fruit Material for Agricultural Plants of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to see whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines for reviewing the law at the 40th session, held on 25 June 2004. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. Thank you. Who's in favour of the law being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a vote. 12 for, a unanimous request for the law to be considered under the shortened procedure was adopted. Ad.16. The draft law amending the Law on Foreign Trade Policy of BiH We have it in our first reading. Therefore, the law is considered in the first reading under Article 90. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is a design. The House of Representatives passed the law in the proposed text in both readings at the 41st session, held on 14 July 2004. The Commission's report was received. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. Who's in favour of the law being passed in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. 13 unanimous. I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm opening a vote on this proposal. You can vote now. Unanimity. We're moving on to another reading. There was no amendment to this law. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for the adoption of the law? I'm opening a vote. 13. for, no one against, no one abstention, the Law was adopted in identical texting at the House of Representatives. 14 Ad.17. Information on the state of security of BiH The report of the competent commission has been given to us all. The House of Representatives has postponed the discussion of the information for the next session. So there were no essentials here, but technically, as I was informed, and that's why they delayed it, and here I am today opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? I give my word to Mr. Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During this session it is such that it is very good that this point has come. Of course, I guess around the evaluations given in the information, which is on the agenda, there will be different visions, so it won't turn out like we all think the same thing, because that's good, because it's just... they say everyone thinks the same thing. In Parliament, surely, when one of these problems is found, it requires this effort to see, above all, the situation and, of course, previously and I appreciate that the meaning of our conversation on this information is precisely to see to what extent it is depicting the state of which it is talking and, of course, to see what needs to be done, to see what the crisis is to be done, that the engagement of the relevant relevant subjects is stabilised, that is, to improve. Already, the fact that we have a verdict on foreign security throughout the entire BiH area and the event is still in itself and it needs to be welcomed. I personally want to say that I'm resuscitating all the participants' efforts to produce this information, but I don't see, or I don't know if anyone has it outside the Department of Security. There is. Of course, the minister and the deputy are gone, so I will therefore ease my view of this issue, first of all this information, but I hope that the colleague, who is participating, or who is following the work of our today's session, will convey this vision, because in some ways, he has ambition to help those who have done this, in the future remove certain things, and if, for a part of the elements, of course, they are not themselves to blame and I, therefore, fully respect their efforts to make this information, it is not an easy routine job, so much more, which we unfortunately do not have properly worked out methodologies, which would respect all levels and all levels. So here, first of all, I'm thinking about entities and other agencies, which, by nature, things give data, which enter the content of this information. I totally understand that we have certain obligations, but, look, I'm going to try to at the shortest, respecting the fact that there are other points, which are probably going to go as these so far, so it seems to me that this and that next one, that we can spend some time on them. It must be noted in the beginning that we are already in the second half of the current year on July 16th, which refers to the previous year in 2003. In the progeclae of 200 days, the state has changed in a number of segments of the security situation, so today the data is indicated in this information, I'd say by the way. Realistically, the end of January is a normal deadline for the creation of sheep's information by the Council of Ministers. This information should be the content of the agenda of our session, as far as the end of the first quarter. I don't see any reason not to bother building such a practice. I even think that we need a security issue in our country, in Parliament to consider twice over the year, in order to add all relevant entities to improve the 15 security conditions, do not wait until the end of the year. If we did so, we would have data for the first six months of this year, which would give us a chance to have a position of relevant entities and of some very current events, which certainly affect the stability of the security situation in BiH. Due to the character of the data, I will not be particularly burdened with them today and will not bother you either, but in a certain way, in my view, I will try to warn of some issues that need to be taken into account when making such documents, i.e. in the activities of relevant attractive entities, which are related in the description of the affairs, which relate to stabilising the security situation in BiH. Of course, it is understood that in such an exhibition it is not possible, and even in the overall debate, that all 15 of us are not able to present the overall content of the document, which is on 46 pages, which was delivered to us by the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without, therefore, the particular claims that in a systematic, methodological way, I will state my position on this document, or only the state of security, I will, in my custom, make more taxing or say only some questions better. First, where I said in the introduction and warned about the impunity and limitations of data, but only the procedure of communication between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which I would almost say stalking and I will say a radical practice, which is justifiably tolerated by this House of Ministers, reflects inertness, slowness, bureaucratic irresponsibility, so if you want administrative courtesy, which can be raised, above all, by the Council of Ministers, by its secretariat and by the individual BiH ministry. Why am I saying this? Simply because this information was discussed and adopted by the Council of Ministers at its 54th session, held on 18 March 2004. In order to include observations and proposals, tabled at the Council of Ministers' said session, a new 76 days have been spent. In fact, the 2nd day, Minister Colak delivers updated information to the main secretariat of the Council of Ministers, which five days later, forwards it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since then, the new 39 days have passed, and so, on occasion, we talk today about a document adopted by the Council of Ministers 120 days ago, four months ago, it is too much for 19 centuries, taking into account the fact that the Council of Ministers only considered the information 77 days a year. In other words, the latest information from the information is 197 days old. Commentary, I don't think it's necessary. In memos with information signed by Ministers Čolak and now former Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers Mr Ivan Ćosić, the name of the document Information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina stands. The same way is the formulated agenda point of our session today, and as far as I'm concerned, this formulation is not appropriate. In other words, the first sentence on the first page of information begins with the text. Security judgment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's a state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, Bosnia and Herzegovina, not Bosnia and Herzegovina's security. Why is it important to warn about this, because the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security would require a significantly different content than what we have in the information offered. 16 This would certainly mean an international dimension of the state of security, which would not go without the foreign ministry's position, and there is no position in the document. In other things, then our Committee on Foreign Affairs and Economic Relations would be invited in a certain way to participate or at least to say its vision of content and evaluations in this information. The third thing, which I want to potential, is the concept of making this material itself, is not the happiest choice, because I don't see too much benefit except for a purely informative dimension, one selective approach to security issues, processed by various agencies operating in BiH, starting with the Information and Protection Agency, therefore, the SIP, the State Border Service, Interpol in BiH, the Federation's Ministry of Interior, the RS Ministry of Interior, the Brcko Police, and the entity civil protection administrations. The statistics and reports on the work of the designated agencies themselves are certainly important, but insufficiently content of a document that has ambition to give a picture of the state of security as I said BiH. That's my case in BiH. To be clear, it is not only the BiH Ministry of Security that can coordinate the overall activity of the document, the assessment of the state of security in BiH can and should be done by the Council of Ministers, because it can provide an inter-resor approach, and that this would ensure that we have data in this information, which undoubtedly affect the security judgment, and which are sources, for example, state and entity finance ministries, customs and tax administrations, intelligence services, the Ministry of Defence of the Army, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, refugees, human rights for fighting issues, education, agriculture, etc. So an inter-resor approach is certainly necessary when it comes to security, because it is a complex problem and implies the entire consglomeration of the situation and relations in one society. In addition, which information contentally, with this concept of making impoverished, in it insufficiently, let me say, even a professionally designed synthesis of processed data. If such an approach was provided information would have one 3-4 times less pages and would have been especially more useful for us parliamentarians. As far as I'm concerned, the most valuable part for me is the part that the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina has done, and that can be clearly recognised by reading the information itself. Of course, this applies first and foremost to the aggregated safety indicators and therefore the proposal for measures, which the Ministry of Security tried to give at the very end of the information. And, of course, it seems to me that, however, in this debate it should be a little bit more thorough and commentary. As far as I'm concerned, so much for now. On the other page, the information is, compared to the fact that there are restrictive factors affecting the quality of work of the Ministry of Security, and they refer to unconditional work, in the sense that there is no own space, no technical equipment, no relevant legal acts, and no fulfillment of the relevant officials. If you remember, somewhere this time last year, we found a similar condition. Wasn't it enough for this year and it wasn't enough to fix and change the situation, though? Who is it that prevents this ministry from getting adequate conditions for its action, has the least said and not to get 17 managements in this ministry, and which forces correspond to this state and to be honest, it is not only about this ministry, but also about some other institutions, to say to the newly formed at the level of the BiH state, where I am apparently dared to say, there are obstructions in the implementation of what we, as a Parliamentary Assembly, have given, or brought, in order to create conditions for the installation of these institutions at the state level. Perhaps the best example of the SIP, which the prime minister rightly said was that 21 months of its implementation, indeed, is too much time spent, and it is still not operational, and according to announcements it will be one 60-70% only. Then, I'll quote this part of the text, here's Mr. President looking at me all the time, I guess he's trying to influence me to finish this, so here, thank you very much, but you helped me, because I was already worried about whether I could make it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3083	I'm looking at you because I listen very closely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3084	Well done. It is, indeed, encouraging and helping me not to be confused about bringing out these elements in this information. I'm going to quote a piece of that information, because even if I know you read it carefully. He says, "It is mentioned on the second page, when it comes to the material status of police, there is a lack of response and a positive response to the joint initiative of the Federal Ministry of Interior and the RS Ministry for Equalisation of Payment Status in all police agencies. The current situation is contributed by the fact that the quality of the rash is due to low wages and that the new quality personnel, necessary in the police, cannot be employed because of the low material compensation for their work, which directly affects the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement, as well as the completeness of the police according to the national structure, provided for by the positive legal regulations." Dear colleagues, we are also responsible for this condition. We had a recent opportunity to systematically ask the question of salaries and police receipts in BiH. But you, of course, rejected my amendment, which had ambition to solve this problem in such a way that police affairs, in the area of the whole of BiH police officers, are equally paid, simplifying, therefore, the problem. There is no successful fight against all forms of crime, without modernly equipped, highly trained, well-paid and motivated police. I was already talking about this phone booth or that other room at that pay phone, and now I'm gonna do it again. The delay in police reform is the impediment of our entry into Eurointegration. I'm sure the police reform will bring, among other things, improvement of the police's material status. I'll always give my voice for it. Gentlemen, it's up to us. It's not the police. It has long been clear to me, and in the past few months I have definitely convinced myself that political tightness, the incorporatedness of individuals and individual miles and to God's defense of national interests is a difficult dam in the true construction of institutions at the level of BiH's auction. They are incomprehensiblely easily by you distinguished colleagues rejected my amendments, which intended to provide material status, for example, to police officers in criminal technology, without which there is no successful police work, or the status of members of 18 helicopter police units. Does anyone think that without helicopters and proper crime techniques, the SIP can function successfully, the State Border Service, without, say, the state special police unit, as part of the SIP, without a funkconising intelligence agency on every inch of BiH, only dear Bog can meet the conditions on which BiH will be admitted to the Partnership for Peace, NATO and the European Union. The sixth, judgment of the security situation in its contents, should have a prognostic character. But this information does not exist, or at least I could not recognize it, and if there were, then the government would be much more willing to welcome, for example, the demobilization process of 6-7 thousand soldiers, especially of its kind in Istnabul, where BiH was left in the company of Serbia-Montenegro, and we see these days that the consequences in light of, of course, the measures taken by the high representative, above all, the months-long dissatisfaction of agricultural and other producers and strikes of workers, due to the lack of salaries and robbery privatisation, the dissatisfaction of fighters and disabled, the interruption of the deployment of young soldiers etc. The assessment of the security situation is precisely aimed at predicting events and processes that have a negative impact on the security situation and organised activity of the relevant entities to warn and eliminate the negative consequences of these events. This is the worst point of this information. So, the lack of a prognostic element. Seven, by mechanically adding the figures given in the entity MUP reports and the agency on page 44, so, I received the end, the information was found to be in 2003 compared to the previous one, carcinising an increase in the number of criminal offences, especially in terms of economic crime, causing general danger, drug abuse and anti-propriety. In all, 34,000 665 crimes were reported last year, which means 2,889 crimes per month, i.e. every day including state and religious holidays in BiH, around 95 crimes took place. I will not specifically comment on the fact that almost two-thirds of these crimes have been reported in the Federation area. I want, however, to give this occasion a more detailed warning of the number of lighting so-called lighting. criminal acts by an unknown perpetrator. Namely, these works in the Federation are 66 out of the opportunity and half of the total number of criminal offences reported. In RS, as many as 72 almost half. The information says that the lighting of the unknown perpetrator in RS is 34.20%, and in the Federation 41.70%, that's police data. The quality of police work, including the Prosecutor's Office and other state bodies, which are subject to their work against the perpetrators of criminal acts, is measured by pronounced, judicial judgments. And there's a situation that's dramatically different, or much worse than the one the police are talking about. Namely, in the report, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is the next item of the agenda, so what I'm saying now will not be later, but I want to warn this element here. According to the 2003 prosecutor's report, the level of discovery by the unknown perpetrator of crimes in the Federation is 9.62%, and in RS 3.53%, eh, now either lies to the goat or lies to the horn. I believe that the only relevant thing is what the 19 Prosecution's on the basis of judgments has made, there is here and in that table, I say, about the next item on the agenda. So that's the real data and it's not the real data the police are giving, because for example, The police as a foll discovered the murderers of Joza Leotar, and we know how he did the trial, I'm not going to mention specifically the question why no one thought to initiate proceedings against the constructor of such a failed one, I'd say, a mounted trial in the case of Leotar and at what stage where, etc. It's a procedure. Why I compared the police and the D.A.'s data, first of all, because the information is only from one source and it represents, in fact, one-sidedness, incomplete access to the building itself. Of course, I do not blame this Ministry of Security, because it has worked resolutely, but that is why I said the approach must be from the level of the Council of Ministers, in order to obtain relevant information from various resolutions, including the Prosecutor's Office and the courts of BiH. The methodological, conceptual and content of this information cannot be commended by the comprehensiveness of the approach. I would also like to use this opportunity to make another point for this speaker, in my court, which has not been given the right place in the judgment of the security situation in BiH. We can fool ourselves as much as we want, but as long as war criminals, arsonists, murderers and thugs are free to walk the streets of our cities and villages and... our security situation won't be good and stable. It is now quite certain that our prosecutions will have to time-honored and, of course, the courts will lead the proceedings against those responsible for the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes against the civilian population, wounded people, patients, prisoners of war and other crimes under Chapter XVII of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Penal Code. So far, there's the numbers of the great-grandparents. Just a few of these figures to illustrate this great-greatness, in previous years and in 2003, have been reported for the works of 9,641 people, of which 7,120 in the Federation, 2.521 in RS. For 6,744 persons, requests for an investigation were submitted, and in 4.596 cases, these requests were submitted to the tribunal's assessment in The Hague. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, 350 persons have been convicted of the alleged crimes, of which in Federation 337 and RS 13. By the end of last year, 127 people were convicted and everyone was in the Federation. The courts in RS did not condemn any person to these crimes. I appreciate that comment is not necessary. Information without this dimension is incomplete to me, and Istanbul has shown no use for sticking a head in the sand. By reading the information, I had a firm impression, eh, now this for the Mr. from the Ministry of Security, that the Ministry of Security had not yet managed enough and affirmed as an entity, which is capable of quality co-ordinated the overall activities of numerous, I would also say over-the-counter security entities in BiH. Some situations have shown that, for example, our state minister of security, and we're all witnesses here, he has no idea at some point what's going on in the segment where he has to be, conditionally speaking, the first man in this country. Cooperation between different entities is not effective enough, no matter how hard we try to hide it. The animity of, for example, between DGS and customs, about some issues, depicted in this information, various other animities between, I use the expression of animities, I hope you understand me and you could certainly recognize this part in the information itself, so these other animities between entity MUPs are not even mentioned between cantonal MUPs, the SIP, here I have already mentioned it I will not particularly mention it in this place and it is evident that we need to recapitulate in some way and what about the measures proposed at the end of the information, in my court, is the easiest thing that is pale and insufficient. I think I need to be more direct and, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll finish this part of my thinking by talking to the gentleman from this ministry and telling him from the opportunity directly what I think. 20 First, my assessment, as political, or security, is not political, so the security situation is satisfactory, perhaps it could have passed six months ago, I'm afraid that some things have had an important impact on that assessment satisfactory and I'm afraid that some things are going towards a situation that is extremely complex and I would say with a tendency to be unsustainable, especially with regard to certain elements. In order for the government in BiH, first executive and then legislative, and also the judicial true rule of the situation, not to go after events, but to warn them, to be a subject in a certain way of creating a total environment, in my deep conviction, we need to seriously ask the table two questions. The first question is, I'm convinced that as a state, we need a classic interior ministry, with a way to communicate with each other, a way to carry out our obligations, so to speak, a subordinated character, to know who's hair, who's carrying water, who's responding, etc. and that we have coverage of the entire BiH territory, so we need a comprehensive ministry. My feeling that in a certain way, in that very sense, and probably because of the solution, and that's the second attitude that I'm going to put out here right now, just because of the solution of his status, we've come to this state, and I'd say, here and I'm firmly convinced that, therefore, we would have created or closed a certain broad front standing in front of this ministry, and it's obviously just not able to do that. On the other hand, we need to ask whether or not the Council of Ministers is a government. The Council of Ministers is not a government like this. The BiH state, therefore, along with this ministry and, of course, another one, should have its own government and, in this respect, be compatible with the issue, as well as in other normal democratic and economically prosperous states. I know, dear colleagues, that at this point you are not prepared to make known about this, as we have easily crossed over and for the last time from a useful initiative of a distinguished colleague Pamuk, and in connection with the need for the formation of the agriculture ministry, I have seen it as a proposal that we haven't even made, because it is evident that we need to think, but be sure that we will get to this situation very quickly, that we will put some things in this sense in the direction, here is not my thinking, but most people, at the end of the police reform here these days, I hope that there will be the first session of this commission, which has formed the High Representative will go in this direction in an appropriate way and eliminating, I would say reorganization, from which we have, here is what we have. I don't know what ambition is, I suppose, to take this into consideration. If the ambition is to make a statement about this, if the elements of what I was talking about and what other colleagues will talk about, and especially in terms of updating, needs of updating, refreshing information. If that goes away, of course I will be against adopting such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3085	I thank my colleague Limov. Before I give my word to anyone else, I would ask, indeed, these future speakers, to, however, be brief so that there may be no such long discussion. I suggest we don't say anything about this at all today. We've brought this up to the knowledge of this information, and there's an open debate on the subject, and eventually we can send a stenogram to the Ministry of Security, with a recommendation to read and consider it. That's how I saw this part of the agenda. If 21 has different opinions, of course, feel free to say so. He answered the word of his colleague Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3086	Dear colleagues, as far as I can tell, we don't have a minister or a deputy minister here, I suppose we have representatives of the ministry or not, we do. I appreciate the efforts made by the Ministry of Security employees, headed by the minister. However, the way we deal with this problem, including this whole chain and the Ministry and the Parliamentary Assembly, is the way we deal with this problem, and I think this should be left for some serious business, because I understand the position of the Ministry of Security, which is also, with its modest powers, condemned to remain on the surface of this problem, I understand all the particularisms that exist in all segments, which are accused of this area in BiH and as a result of this situation, we document ambitiously and unhappily called the Information on the State of Security of BiH, get in a way that is a dreary display of certain indicators, certain information, certain assessments, certain impressions, with very, I would say, a frustrating proposal for measures to be taken and I would say, if they do not solve the problem. For these reasons, therefore, for these reasons, it happened that we were already in the second half of this year talking about security information in the past year, and we were supposed to talk about the security situation in the last year and we're dealing with security assessments for this year. So this half year we haven't dealt with security or security last year and estimates for this year, and we're probably going to have in some new safety report a finding that repeats, the number of crimes in constant growth in all entities in all cantons, that the percentage and number of works with unknown perpetrators is growing from year to year in thousands and, of course, one state, which simply can't have a result of this kind of dealing with this issue. So to avoid keeping and wasting time, I think the way out of this, with what we heard in the discussion, to ask the Ministry of Security to draw up a security document in BiH, for the first half of the year in this year, with an assessment of the security situation for the next half of this year and to put such a complete report on the agenda, would make sense then. To deal with the state of security, I'm over a year or a year or a half old, I don't think it's an option. So my conclusion would be that we get fresh information, which means with this additional information on the state of security in this half of the year and that we prepare ourselves, and we have ready proposals to take measures and then talk about this document, with all the conclusions that are proposed, please put this on the vote as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3087	I'd like to thank my colleague Genc. No Niko's answering anymore. I don't see anyone with a reputation. We only have one conclusion, as far as I understand Mr. Genjac. You, Mr. Limov. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3088	I've had a similar thought, and in the course of the presentation, I said, with the potential for an inter-resor approach, because if the Ministry of Security does, then we won't have in information intelligence elements, we won't have financial, customs, social policy, all of those elements that affect. I propose that my colleague Genjac, together we propose a conclusion, so that the Council of Ministers refreshes the information and delivers it within a certain time limit to lead the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3089	It's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3090	We, a number of significant institutions in the meantime, have established a significant number of institutions, because laws have been passed, etc. and I think the only solution is actually to get all the information through an interresor approach, because we all know that conflicts of jurisdiction between DGS and customs will simply result in a constant result of deepening and increasing the number of these works, which, in particular, problems in that area, which is extremely subtle and sensitive. So, I support and accept Mr Lim's absolutely proposal, because without an interresor approach, it is not possible to consider this issue at the Parlamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3091	Thank you. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3092	So, everything said here today, I miss something in these conclusions, and I just volunteered to supplement it. We're sure that war crimes and war criminals, who walk Bosnia and Herzegovina are a lot of trouble to the security situation, we wanted to or didn't admit it. In these conclusions, I think it should stand, and it doesn't stand anywhere, that everything needs to be done to increase security, to process war criminals and to work on it. I think one such information, without such a conclusion, is missing from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3093	We have a proposal here, and it seems to me that Mr Lim and Genjac's proposal has been agreed, and we have a proposal for Brkin, because then we need to formulate the conclusion. I'm giving for the right and I'm going to comment on this. I'll repeat what Mr. Radović said, so it's inter-resort everything. I suggest that we continue to work for Mr Limov and Genjac to withdraw and, yes, here can Mr Radović and make that proposal a conclusion and vote on it, and yes, if you agree to continue the work we do, and that the three of you withdraw. Okay, after this point, of course. There are no reports. So, this was an update on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I can only find out here that it has been admitted to knowledge. Here, this commission, consisting of Mr. Genjac, Mr. Limov and Mr. Radović, is tasked with making a proposal for a conclusion, which we can then, on the background of what they were talking about, and I suggest we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is 18. 23 Ad.18. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina The report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives received information about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office at the 39th session, held on June 18th 2004, and I am opening rst on this agenda point. Mr. Limov. Here, with a promise to be much shorter now, because I said part of the elements in the very information about the debate at the previous agenda point and immediately to say, I don't know if there's anyone here from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. There is. Excuse me. You've changed sides. I'm used to you being left, and you went right. Here, my colleagues help me see it right away. First of all, I would like to truly welcome the BiH Prosecutor's Initiative, in accordance with Article 10. The Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on its work in 2003, gives full information to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is the first information, which reflects the situation in the whole of BiH, I say, first of all, the male and I will not problem the fact that it has been here half a year since the end of 2003, but, of course, I said that I would be twice as short anyway. We can't compare this information to last year's, because it wasn't, but next year we'll be able to compare it to this next year. Which is good and, therefore, we are opening one process and practice. At a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I said that this information was made even with less expertise, I would certainly accept it. So the information is okay, but the state that it reflects, especially in certain segments, of course, is not good. In part, in my debate in the previous point, I warned of the lack of insight into the results of the lighting of perpetrators by unknown perpetrators and should not be repeated at this time, but I would like to express my agreement with the assessment given in the information indicating the need, intensifying reforms of all law enforcement services, because it is not realistic to expect better results from the prosecution's inadequate cooperation with these services. Of course, when I say this, I don't just have a problem with the SIP and not implementing it, but also, for example, the police reform committee, here it is not yet established. Scepters in customs and tax reform, encouraging yesterday's Vujeće Ministers went with one plan in the sense that at least half a year we will get in our denomination towards meeting the reform objectives and, of course, that without that, the prosecution's own effect is limited. Despite everything, I want to make it clear here, and the prosecution, as we know somewhere in January, was first appointed, and then later it was filled, not yet filled, I hope that soon the staffing will be brought to the point where we can say that they are working and can work at full capacity. I, therefore, want to say that their results in the past year are respectable and these apples confirm the following 350-formed cases, therefore, more than one day, in 202 cases 457 perpetrators of criminal offences have been found, against 130 natural and 34 legal persons have been brought to trial, for 107 persons the Court has ordered detention, those 104 are not important, for the last time we spent a lot of time on three, then all charges are confirmed by the court, for 46 persons the court has already reached a conviction of 24 convictions, for three liberating and one is unaccountable. Why not say that this parliamentary assembly has also been participating in creation, above all legitimate assumptions, on the basis of which our prosecution, judiciary and other law enforcement institutions can be more successful than previously dealt with with with by various forms of crime, especially with so-called. organized crime. This, among other things, I think that we have, for example, passed BiH criminal law, the Criminal Procedure Act, that we have ratified a series of international conventions, such as the fight against transnational, organised crime, corruption, money laundering, etc. and, on the basis of the information, the following assessments are only briefly taxed. First, criminals are highly organized and use entity and all other divisions, using the situation in the region, so-called. Southeast Europe, crime is not interested in the nation, religion, entity and any other borders, that is the first, which is visible from this information. Secondly, only state institutions, which will operate in the overall territory of BiH and in collaboration with law enforcement agencies, both domestic and neighbouring countries, and have a better chance of fighting transnational organised crime. Third, prosecutors and courts in BiH are waiting for a huge job in the coming period to prosecute war crimes, crimes against humanity and values protected by international law. Fourthly, the evaluation of the information is clear, in RS under a) the quality of the charges is good, because the courts have reached 89% of the convictions, others are liberating, b) criminal policy is mild, because 54% of convicted persons have received a suspended sentence, 22% of the fine and 22 prison sentences, and c) worries that no one in this entity is convicted of war crimes, that unsolved charges of 207 murderers, for 1320 thieves, for 286 robbers it. In the Federation of BiH: a) the quality of the indictment is solid because the courts have reached 87 indictments. So, by 1% less than in RS, b) criminal policy is also a treasure here, because 56% of convicted persons have received parole, 23 prisons and other coins, c) concerned the fact that at the end of 2003, no court proceedings for 14,220 defendants have been closed, this is at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, especially counterpart Boško Šiljegović drew with law, because it is worrying about the level of the entire state. In Brcko District, crime has increased by 18%, judgments here are 96%. So the percent is the best, so I want to point this out, there were 44% parole, 40% prison sentences, so almost twice as much as in entities. And, I must say, their prosecution requires a tightening of criminal policy. I think it's a signal for a global rating, even a request if you want. 25 The sixth, an extremely big problem is so-called. The old ones passed on, so to speak, the old ones are torn out. In the Federation it is for 7,953 persons, and in RS 7,137. So when we add that up, that turns out to be 15 grand. Seven, the regulations we have, despite efforts to modernise them in the field of customs, tax and fiscal policies, I will be rude, responding to criminals. We're doing this kind of effort, but it's obvious that criminals are still feeling good. You can put it under alleged signs, I'm not... Eight, only teamwork and an interresor approach, can deliver results in the fight against crime. Ninethly, I support all the proposed measures in the information, as well as the very information as a whole, and I appreciate that it would be good, after this debate, to call in a certain way and to express the willingness that, as Parliament, initiatives coming from the prosecution's respective bodies and, otherwise, from the judiciary, therefore, from these institutions, they, therefore, have a priority in our parliamentary work, in terms of supporting the relevant new, more quality legislative solutions, which will be initiated by these institutions. And, in the end, the tenth. I'd say it's either the most profitable job in this auction, or it's best to deal with crime. Crime simply pays off, criminal policy is, as we've found treasure, a thief, and if he gets a sentence of law, his criminal property remains. In the past year, the BiH Court seized the illegal property benefit of only three people, amounting to a miserable 59.192.5 mark. Yesterday, the encouraging court in Banja Luka, took away 316.000 marks and, of course, the question will be what, when it starts to confiscate property acquired, there are elements, courts can and now prejudge who will dispose of this property, it will clearly need to regulate it in one systematic way, the government is the right environment, it is with us, the chosen rich, the poor state, the citizens are increasingly starving, who of us is cheering for criminals, it is very clear when we plead, when I say we, I also think of our colleagues in the House of Representatives, who these days are about one of the laws, which had ambition to regulate the problem, and which I have said something, they have made clear how they have spoken. Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Limov. He's got Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3095	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I listened with attention to the presentation of counterpart Lim and the past point on the state of security in BiH and on this point, but apparently my colleague Limov forgot that we do not have a pre-election campaign today. Since he took advantage of the opportunity to propagate us here, I don't believe he's got anyone for his political option, I'm still gonna say one thing. The position of some of the members of the party I belong to, at the House of Representatives, not to accept the law proposed by Mr Limov in any way does not mean supporting 26 crimes. Please, therefore, it is an inadmissible insinuation, absolutely unacceptable, I expect Mr. Lim to apologize for it. So it was just very clear. There are enough laws and legal grounds for persecuting criminals and for carrying out the procedures that existed, there have always been in all the legislation, including in this Bosnian Herzegovina, to confiscate illegally acquired assets. So there is now enough and the law of the legal framework. If a certain law, designed in a particular party committee, has not passed, we cannot then have some other political party, which does not accept such a kind of dictatorship condemn to support crime and criminals. So, I, I really expect Mr. Lim to apologize in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3096	I'd like to thank my colleague Čengić. Gosodin Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3097	Of course, I said that since we haven't spoken, I didn't even see the reason why Mr. Čengić recognized himself in this and I didn't recognize it in this sense, that this leads to this political field. I made it very clear that we are legitimate when, and not only us, but also our fellow parliamentarians from the equal home and, as far as this request is concerned, Mr Čengić, if he comes from colleagues from the House of Representatives, I will have my position.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3098	All right, my colleague Jukić picked up his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3099	Here, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, means of communication, the Prosecutor's Office, other guests, I will do this very briefly, because this seems to me that Mr. Limov has made a lot of comments, made some assessments, I won't comment on them, I'll say one thing, one question, take advantage of the gentleman's presence here from the BiH Prosecutor's Office. On page 7th, it says that out of 13 prosecutors, 10 of which are 5 Bošnjak, 4 Srbin, 1 Hrvat. Therefore, the obvious non-balance of the national composition, and since the BiH Prosecutor's Office is one very important and sensitive judicial institution we expect to really be very responsible and do an important job, I expect this imbalance of the national composition of the structure, as soon as possible, to be balanced and resolved in accordance with the BiH Constitution, Article 9(3). I also believe that it is necessary to make the appointment of the remaining intended prosecutors as soon as possible, because the text also says that there is a visible lack of the prosecutor, so at least the number that is intended and therefore here, I propose and plebe that this complete be carried out as soon as possible. I also believe that it is absolutely necessary to give full support to the work of the prosecution and all other judicial institutions. True, our legislation in this area is quite specific, so there are such examples that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly actually has the right to have insight into the results of the work and nothing else, which is perhaps 27 good. And that is why I would ask that this information really be both complete and contentable and that the next one be even more content and that we can quality compare it with this and thus monitor the work and quality of the work of this judicial body as well as other judicial bodies in BiH. Here, I wouldn't take that much longer than I thought, considering what we agreed we'd try if it wasn't necessary to finish this session of ours, or this point by the time we planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3100	I thank my colleague Jukić. I give my word to my colleague Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3101	Dear colleagues, as of today, we have a representative of the D.A.'s office as well as deputies. Personally, I'd be happy if our attorney general were here. There are probably objective reasons, but since it's the House of Peoples, I think it would be good for these opportunities to be presented to the prosecution in this way. Of course, I respect all the objective reasons. In fact, we have a report in front of us that has been considered in a very specific period. First of all, judicial reform and reform of the prosecutorial functions are large-scale reforms, very demanding reforms. We've passed laws on criminal proceedings, we've passed laws on the prosecution. These laws position prosecutors in a whole new way. They become one of the key figures in the judicial process. This should probably also contribute to the efficiency of the prosecution's work and the effectiveness of criminal policy and the prevention of criminal offences. The Prosecution Act also established an obligation for prosecutors of their own jurisdiction and to submit their own reports to the BiH chief prosecutor on the state of crime in their area. It is I think a very happy solution in the law and as a result of all these measures and today we have here one dared to say a very high-quality report, a serious report behind which is obviously a lot of effort, a lot of effort and for which I suggest quality measures. Of course, a quality report on one condition that we cannot call very good, the state of crime, the state of crime, the unknown perpetrators of the detected acts, etc., speaks of all levels of prosecutorial functions in BiH. Of course, it's a short period since the prosecutor's office has been in place and unfortunately we don't have the elements to do a quality comparative, we don't have the necessary parameters to do the comparative, let's see what the results of the prosecutor's position change are. It might be good for some of the following environmental experiences from similar countries to be used to make a comparison so that we can assess what this change of position has brought us, and perhaps in which direction we should go further. In the full text of this report, one note is found that neither the co-workers are professionals in the prosecutor's office nor the number of prosecutors necessary has been placed in the prosecutor's office and is asked a legitimate question, which I think should be answered here, which are the reasons why last year the expert associates were not hired and what are the reasons why and the necessary prosecutors were not involved in the prosecution. I'm 28 maybe seeing reasons, but I think the answer here should be offered behind the pay phone. If I were not to stick to the indicators of a truly large one, the sea in this report, which has already been spoken in earlier discussions, I would be focusing a little on the proposed conclusions, on the proposed measures proposed by the chief prosecutor to improve this area. I fully support the idea to pass laws on a judicial and prosecutorial budget that would be independent of the budgetary institutions, from the Parliamentary Assembly's budget and thus achieve full independence and independence of judges and prosecutors. I think that idea should be pursued so that it can right now improve the situation further. I also support the proposed amendments, that it is working on amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, in particular to introduce the principle of subordination because this area cannot be partorised, divided, multiplied, only with a unique approach can hope for improvement. And of course I support other measures. The report shows, of course, that people are engaged, they work responsibly, they're working on a number of sebments, a number of fields where prosecutors and deputy prosecutors are hired. Indicators show he's got results. Of course, the issue of undiscovered perpetrators and part of undiscovered perpetrators remains, when the exception of what was previously inherited and for the past year is a large number of these works, therefore it can be said to be worryingly large. But I'd like to ask this one question, perhaps, to point out that I've also potentiated on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. In this report, it is evident that the established institution, an institution operating, prosecutors working, the prosecutor's institution, the prosecution's institution, therefore there are results, the reform is under way. However, we have some kind of public access from time to time, which in some ways has been heard about speakers in this House that international prosecutors in some way do not trust domestic prosecutors. I think that question should be kind of devoted to him just for the public's sake. I don't think international prosecutors should believe or believe, it's a matter of profession and profession. However, if the contents of such allegations appear in public, their founding and lack of foundation, that is another question. I think the D.A.'s office is in the interest of protecting the D.A.'s institution and the D.A.'s institution should be donated. I think that this kind of effort and this kind of effort that has been put into the reform, of course this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and International Institutions and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council have been involved, and the results have been achieved. So, I think building institutions and strengthening these institutions means also preserving credibility and building the credibility of these institutions. I think it's harmful if certain information appears and the prosecution does not react in the interest of protecting its integrity. I see in the report that there is, in particular, the Department of Economic Crime, organized crime, corruption that has been established by law indeed. The law does not stipulate that they should be strictly foreigners in that department. There are only foreign persons in the current solution, so international prosecutors, and I see nothing wrong with that. It is probably the reason why one type of act is solely responsible for this department and that department in which only international prosecutors are investigating these prosecutors and then why these prosecutors would inform other prosecutors of what is in their jurisdiction. 29 So I can assume these relations based on both the law and this report, but I think that the public should be in the interest, in the interest of the prosecution, in the interest of preserving the credibility achieved, I think this matter should be clarified in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3102	I thank my fellow Genjac. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3103	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, deputy public prosecutor, others present, I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this report today. I am pleased first because this is a private report by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and secondly, because this report seeks to present the overall state of affairs, therefore, of the activities of the tužilaštvo's Office in BiH and not only of the State's Prosecutor's Office. I share, dissatisfaction with my colleagues, why today we are discussing a report signed in April. And let me express my criticism to you in the College, why this must have been waiting. I don't see any reason to wait. This report has nothing to do with the views and activities of the House of Representatives, so our home should have considered this earlier. Of course, the current chairman cannot bear responsibility in this regard, for he has recently taken responsibility, and so far has escaped, so as not to hear criticism. However, I cannot give up on this criticism and I think it would be good, I understand that the prosecution needed some time to collect data after the end of the year, but I think it would be good to agree today and make one of the conclusions under this point, so an additional conclusion on those proposals proposed in the report, that the prosecution, the State's Prosecutor's Office is mandatory until 30 and 31, respectively. On the third of next year, file a report for the previous year. And that the House is obliged to discuss the steed immediately after the report has arrived, especially since we do not, in fact, declare ourselves, which we do not adopt the report, but we receive it to the knowledge. That's the first one. Secondly, I share the assessment of colleagues who had previously said that, given that this is, for the time being, the only regulatory, only regular cause of communication and contact between this House and the D.A.'s office, I think it is necessary for this point to respect the presence of the deputy prosecutor to be present as a public prosecutor, because there are probably things that we would very much like to ask him and to whom he should answer and perhaps his colleagues present here today are not getting up by the nature of things to answer questions. I therefore believe that the importance and functioning of the State Prosecutor and the Prosecutor's Office and the Parliamentary Assembly should be given to me, as well as to the presence of the Prosecutor General in the submission of this report. In other words, I think that not only in writing, but the orally prosecutor should present this report in the future. And that's why I suggest that it be one of our conclusions for the next report for next year. Next, I have to say that I believe that this report is both methodologically and from the point of view of structure, from the point of view of expression, a very high-quality report, and I am glad that we have the opportunity, because we have the opportunity to read, maybe colleagues will be angry that this is how it turns out that I judge their work, but since we have the opportunity to read various reports of 30 different state institutions, this one really belongs to those who are of great quality. What my colleague Genjac said earlier, about this misunderstanding that has appeared in some media, whether domestic and foreign prosecutors, trust each other, is a mildly said strange thing. Of course, we can't link the D.A.'s office because it's the media's attitude. It's also strange that someone who's subsidized, so foreign prosecutors are inside the prosecution, but under the state's chief prosecutor's office, they're giving grades on their colleagues, so maybe they can even refer to their superior. So, the D.A.'s office. The strangest thing, however, is that the State Prosecutor's Office did not react, although on page six, the D.A.'s Office alleged that showering among other things had a department of public relations. So it's amazing that on such a serious remark, on such a serious text that's been published recently in the daily press, maybe I haven't seen, if I haven't seen, I'm sorry, but I haven't seen it react. Now let's get to the point. It's a very big progress that we have the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office is doing its job. However, this State Prosecutor's Office is still disabled to present the real state of work of the Prosecutor's Office in BiH for reasons that do not depend at all on the State Prosecutor's Office itself, and this is certainly the lack of subordination by.... And it is, in fact, the State's Prosecutor's Office's Office's office that makes more of an address for statistics, so unfortunately more of an address for statistics that it eventually collects from the field than an institution that is measuringly giving information and is responsible for what is happening. For this reason, I support this point of conclusion, which suggests that our existing organisation and the structure of the prosecution is reorganized in a way that there is both a kind of subordination and a right to how you officially say that giving an opinion on certain so-called prosecutorial posts. A colleague of Limov rightly spoke of something he called a mild criminal policy. I remember, unfortunately, this formulation from that previous regime, because it belongs to a party that used to rule, it's normal for me to use that formula, every time I was unhappy with that formula, but here we have a little problem. True, perhaps it can be called criminal policy, but the fact that it is mild or harsh obviously does not depend on power now. It's not about what politics would want, but first of all, it's a matter of a completely free assessment of the court. In that sense, it might be useful to consider and on the occasion of this report, to consider a particular debate at which representatives of the prosecution, representatives of the Court and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers would discuss together, which I would not call a very criminal policy but let's say, indeed, the effectiveness or effectiveness of this, our policy, judicial policy towards criminal acts. Obviously, we have enough elements. I'll be very clear. According to my assessment, some crimes are more punishable than they are, more severe than they are in Europe. So, don't praise our instruments that we can punish, but apparently the courts resort to one such law that might be assessed instead of a mild criminal policy, perhaps rather not sufficiently effective in countering. Because we know well that criminal policy always has two functions. To punish a particular perpetrator and, above all, to deter any future perpetrator. If we do this first in certain cases, here's a colleague of Limov, and I think others, they're not quite convinced that we're also trying to prevent the crimes of this court's verdicts. 31 On the other hand, if we in parliament or in the government are critical, we may be told to interfere in the independence of the court. And that's one problem now. For that reason, I think it would be good to talk about it, so very seriously, of course, but only based on the statistics and analysis that we can do. And yet I'm going to say here, that I have the impression that no matter what the prosecution says about them, the information is not yet complete, not even from the point of view of the number of people who are supposed to work inside, here are the objections to the national composition that are sticking in the eyes, we'll only remain in doubt how we're going to rationally structure foreigners who take up seats and have no nationality. We'll split them up if, according to who they're after most. So that remains an open question, but regardless, I don't think it's a good idea for us to be eye to eye with each other because there's no need for that. I'm not even sure if it's any use to any people if the prosecutor is from his people right now, he's alone in a situation where when you're sued and tried by that people, you go very badly. However, that aspect should also be taken into account. And I'm saying, I think it would be very good if the prosecution tried for itself anyway, so not just for us, but for themselves to do one analysis, whether the works that were being prosecuted or prosecuted in the past year, or the perpetrators of the works, were these the acts that threaten society the most. If we're going to talk about economic undermining society, I'm going to be very clear. I'm guessing we're not effective yet. I believe there are still quite a few acts that are really damaging, therefore, above all, damage to the budget and state revenues, public revenues, which are not even sanctioned from close proximity, not individually, but in principle. So basically general. And for that reason, I think there's still a lot left to do. Next, here I am not a lawyer, some will say thank Bog, but I have the impression that the prosecution here has written a verdict against itself. That sounds ugly, but that's right. So page 8 is about software and it's about unlicensed software and unlicensed software means copied software, so for which, which is not to be used. I can understand that there's probably no money for that, but I still can't accept that the D.A. doesn't have the money to have licensed software. I'll be open. This is a kind of high-level correctness of people who've been doing a report to put this on. However, it is inadmissible that this is happening and it is unacceptable to pass through this House without reacting. That's why I'm asking the competent institutions to resolve this issue within 30 days. So, I'm not a lawyer, but I think the guy already deserved to be held accountable in the D.A.'s office. So that we don't start it, because the prosecution isn't just going after itself, by the logic of things, it's unacceptable for us as Parliament to accept that such an important state institution is working, using this software illegally. Next thing you know, I'd love to, and I'd like to see in the next D.A.'s report, one area that maybe or one chapter that maybe they don't hold to their job. But here I dare as someone who sits in the Parliamentary Assembly who, for the legislator, says that I think it is useful to hear their comment. And that's, this is where we get the suggestion of change, if I understand this correctly, three laws. In your conclusions, you predict the changes to the three existing laws. I believe more than three laws should be amended at this time. And secondly, I think that prosecutors are just better than we in the Parliamentary Assembly and better than many others see the problem of certain legal solutions. I believe it would be useful, as this time they have made us proposals to change these three laws, to put one type of 32 comments on certain laws. Better put for certain solutions in some laws that should be amended, repaired, changed, supplemented or otherwise. I say, formally it is not the work of the prosecution, but in essence it would be of great benefit to society as a whole, to us in Parliament, and finally to the work of the prosecution itself. And lastly, don't let your colleagues get mad, it's very hard to be critical of themselves. On page 10, the report said, the court's refuting verdict was not brought on any charges by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In other words, we are raising a monument to the BiH prosecutor's office, this is according to the logic of Albania of the Enver Hodge Hodže, 99.99% of voters voted for our leader and leader. In other words, the prosecution worked so well, page 10, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, begins this way – condemning verdicts have been made for 46 persons or 92%, and the last sentence here says - the BiH Court of Justice's refuting verdict has not been brought on any charges by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This is what I'm saying, it looks like that way, there can be two reasons. One is the one used here, or two reasons. One is that the D.A.'s office is doing so well, it's never and never wrong, because the court has confirmed everything. You know, for us here, we have to look differently. Maybe the prosecution has such a good run at court, that the court doesn't have the courage to refuse a single ruling. I'm sorry, I'm a member of Parliament, for what I say I don't answer here. So, I'm not saying that, but I'd like to hear a little review and therefore what they are, the prosecution's missing. So what the prosecution is, I repeat, I'm not calling this State's Attorney's Office to be responsible for what's under them, because there's no hierarchy, but in this prosecution itself, it's amazing that the prosecution hasn't made a mistake in a year's time. Forgive me, I mean, it's an amazing statistic. We are so good at no longer achieving in any BiH area such good results as in the lawsuit. In that sense, I'm going to be glad that the prosecution continues its work, that I support these proposals and suggestions, the conclusions that are here, and I suggest that we adopt these conclusions that I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3104	I did, I pressed this button where the replica is written, this could be an explanation. Dear colleague Čengić said something about the expression treasure. So I'm saying that I didn't use it because of the nostalgia of some time where he went bad, but I used the terminology used by both the prosecution on pages 17 and 19 as it was written. There's a 20-by-two sharper side, that's a clear explanation, is no special replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3105	Thank you, I don't see any more reports. So we can find out that we received this report for knowledge, we have here a proposal for conclusions, here I am going to allow myself to comment on what my colleague Čengić suggested. I think it's perfectly okay for one of the conclusions to be that term that we're asking to do the information, but I also think that these two conclusions, that's part of the conclusion, that I don't know, I'm not sure if it's in our jurisdiction that we can. Here's my apologies, here you go, 33.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3106	So let me be very clear. My attitude is therefore not practical but also theoretical and practical. The parliament of one state is an address and an institution that must take care of everything that is going on. So it would be illusory and utopian to understand literally the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution in a way that they live on Mars and the court that is in Earth. They are independent in the sense that we, as political structures, give them concrete solutions to concrete processes, but the absolute Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for the state of security, for the state of crime, for the state of crime, and cannot avoid that responsibility. On the other hand, it would be inadmissible if we ourselves, therefore, were alone without arguments, without the experience of the court and the prosecution to discuss it. I did not say that we should take a stand to strengthen or what counterpart Limov called a criminal policy, but simply to talk, so what results we have in countering crime, which is the level of crime, how much it harms the functioning of the state, how much harm we are to the citizens, how effective we are as a state. For me, it's a fundamental question of what we call going to Europe. We can formally satisfy everyone on paper laws and institutions, but the question is whether we are safe here, whether we have protected ourselves individually, whether individual rights are protected and whether common, public rights are protected. It is the work of the prosecution and the court and I hold that in that sense, so without prejudged conclusions, because I do not know what the conclusion will be, I believe it would be useful to discuss this issue as a Parliamentary Assembly, without now knowing what attitude we will take. It's the only tendency. I think that a different view, if the judiciary and the prosecution were so independent that the Parliamentary Assembly couldn't discuss the general policy of countering crime would be as if then we didn't need to talk about the state of security at all, because you can't separate the state of security from law enforcement. That's just it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3107	I thank my colleague, Čengić, here's my word before I give my word to the DA's office, and here I suggest that you formulate in writing
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3108	About software, yes, as far as software is concerned, the House of Peoples is asking the competent institutions, therefore, primarily the management or public prosecutor who runs the State Prosecutor's Office to address the issue of insurance, therefore, certified or licensed software within 30 days. So that's the thing to do. That's one. The second conclusion and third conclusion, it is proposed that the College organises a special session or at least a agenda on the issue of the state of crime and the effectiveness of judicial authorities in combating and combating crime with representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the BiH Court of Justice, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3109	Okay, of course now. Here you go, that's for the stenogram. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3110	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, first of all, I would like to answer this one, I would like to try to answer two, three questions that have been asked. First question, Mr. Jikić, as far as the remaining three prosecutors are concerned. It's a competition scheduled I think already has 7-8 months, in the phase of choosing the High Prosecutor's and Judicial Council. These days, or the next few months, they're going to appoint three prosecutors and I hope they respect the balance, and they're going to elect those three prosecutors. I mean, even September, October of the month. As for Mr. Genjac's questions that were asked earlier, at last session and writing the press, I can tell you about the prosecution, you know that there are three departments run by deputies. Each department has its own deputy, and the head of all departments is BiH's chief prosecutor, Mr. Jurčević. The BiH prosecutor's office does not feel the problem either between foreign prosecutors and domestics. It is true that foreign prosecutors, the foreign prosecutor's department, are in charge of economic crime, but the department of these domestic prosecutors is also in charge of the same crimes as they lead worse. In particular, counterpart Jadranka Jurćević, her subject was finished with a condemning conviction for money laundering. I've had it, Mr. Božo, the same cases that international prosecutors do, so do we. So, I don't see at all, it's good that the press is asking, maybe it should or shouldn't, it's the prosecutor's thing now, but we don't find that what the press says is that it irritates us or anything else. As far as this last question is concerned, expert associates. You know very well that...the law was passed on 1 March 2003, that in the first half, i.e. by 1st 2003, only five prosecutors, public prosecutor and three deputies worked, that six of us were accepted means 01.2000, and then it was already filled with one expert associate, and the completion of other professional associates was under way. And I would just answer this one more question, as far as this is concerned, the criticisms of these, if we were ideal, we weren't, no speech. However, here, if you may object, are these third judgments, where liberating judgments are made. It's personal, wherever the acquittal is made, it's the prosecutor's fault. And this, a refuting verdict, is the verdict when a public prosecutor gives up on a major search or an absolute statute of limitations, which means it's two different things. This acquittal is one big mistake by the prosecutor, quite abnormally if we were here... so much and thank you very much, I would just say that the attorney general is really busy, if he were at a meeting in the OHR, he sent two of his deputies. If there are any questions, I hope we can answer them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3111	Thank you. You can stay, if you'll have more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3112	So just for a little while
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3113	I apologize before I give you my word, I would say that here it is, I will repeat the words of my colleague Čengić from earlier, the Parlement is the highest institution in BiH, and 35 we expect all the officials to treat this notification. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3114	So I appreciate the explanation of my fellow deputy attorney general, unfortunately for us here who don't know, it would have been good if we'd heard an esteemed name?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3115	Here, Deputy Chief Prosecutor Vasko Marinković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3116	Thank you very much. So, I understand this answer is actually the worst for the prosecutor when the court comes to a liberating verdict, but I believe Mr. Prosecutor will agree with me that, in the case that the prosecutor gives up the dispute in court, it means that he didn't do a good job, and even in the case when it's aging, it's a failure first of all by the prosecutor, because he has to take care of it. I'm saying, in that case, I'm staying with my general, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3117	Thank you. No more reports. So I can figure out that we've received the information, and now we're going to make a statement about the conclusions, if I don't see it, parton, I'm sorry, come on press
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3118	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would say, I think that this material, it's good that we're considering it, but I would also remind my colleagues that this House is tall and everyone is responding to it, he prescribed the procedure as to how it is done. I'm afraid we're not going to get into something we shouldn't, and we're the ones who are prescribing procedures. So there's a High Court and Prosecution Council that's gonna do this, what we want. And that's why I'd ask that our conclusions don't go to ruin the reputation of the House and those decisions and the laws that we make. We need to prescrib the procedure, and we need to process this as we please. It doesn't make sense to me that on the D.A.'s Labour Report we're prescribing fines, and it doesn't make sense that this House appreciates whether the judges gave a good sentence. There are organs that we have prescribed, who will appreciate it, I ask that we respect it. I ask that we respect that, so we don't fall into a trap ourselves. It's not good because of the dignity and significance of this House, and that's why I'm advocacy that this information is well done, we have the conclusion that whether the penalties are large or small, they'd let the relevant authorities we've put in charge of, voted, and also whether it should be changed. There's a procedure that we're going to law, all the laws have passed this House. If we have not properly determined the penalties or if we are in the next period when we have a security situation, if it is getting worse, the measures imposed were not preventive, then there are reasons to say which segment, in which part of credibility(?) We haven't measured, we've got a rise, we've got an unsatisfactory condition. That's it, thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3119	Thank you, fellow Radović. Here's Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3120	I thank the chairman, therefore, accepting the response of the deputy public prosecutor to the comment of fellow Genjac, who was involved in writing a press release on either a plea or a real position, a prosecutor or a prosecutor from abroad on domestic prosecutors, thus accepting an explanation, or an answer, I do not accept the reasons for which that response was not offered to the public. Because what we were told, we needed a fellow Genjac, and in that sense it seemed to me and suggested he set the thing up, and referred suggestions. In fact, it was meant to get to know the public for a lot of reasons, first of all, so that the public knows what it is and how it is in relations between the prosecutors of domestic and foreign, to print to us if it is maliciously or not knowing for what reason it is, it does not destroy one institution or one institution that is so, so important, which we are only raising and finally, to keep this in an institution more significant way, to show that there are limits of freedom and press. If what the BiH Deputy Prosecutor told us is true, the information we read in the press is incorrect. So which is the institution that should draw the line between the rest and the freedom of the press. So that's to say the possessions, for some, may be the first reason the prosecution was supposed to react to the press's question of mistrust with domestic prosecutors, expressed by prosecutors from abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3121	Thank you, Coelgi Neamarlia. I don't see any more reports. So, the conditions for that finding were that we received this report for knowledge, and here we have these three conclusions, if I am not mistaken for Mr. Čengić. May I have your attention, please? Now I'm not sure I'm going to interpret these conclusions in the best way, so if you don't mind, there's a stenogram there is, the first conclusion referred to the date of the one until 31.03. to do the information. Here's what I'm going to put to the vote right now, that suggestion of that conclusion. You're welcome to vote. 12 for, unanimously. The second conclusion, we have it in a stenogram, are you into licensed software? I'm opening a vote. I figure 12 for, unanimously, it's adopted. And the third conclusion, whose complete text we're going to take from the stenogram, refers to
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3122	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3123	..it is, the work of justice... and it is good, I'm opening a vote. Eight for four abstentions. This conclusion does not have an entity majority. Here, no collapsing of the Kolegijum has been achieved. He doesn't have an entity majority. So, it didn't go through this third conclusion. Okay. 37 I have one question, are we taking a break now or are we moving on? I'm asking people. Hilmo, do you want a break? As many as you can tell. Can you go to the 2nd good office, but please, please at 2:15 a.m., eh, go to half three then, but please don't be late. Dear colleagues and guests, here are the conditions so we can continue this session today. [[PAUZA]] I suggest before we go on this one, I suggest we now adopt the conclusions on the Information on the state of security in BiH. As agreed, fellow Genjac and Limov have made a proposal and here I am going to read it to you. You do, don't you? Oh, great. Any comments on the text?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3124	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3125	Here's a colleague of Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3126	The pressure's on me. In the interest of copyright protection, I was the promoter of the first proposal on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I ask my colleague Genjac and Tomislav Limov to write me here as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3127	All right, take it. Here's a colleague of Limov's says you've made it stronger. So we vote. We are voting on the conclusions, the author of Mr Genjac, Lim and Šiljegović, we can begin. Who's in? The conclusions were unanimously adopted. Congratulations to the promoters. Now we move to the 19th point of today's agenda, that's Ad.19. Report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise Official Journal of BiH, according to the 2003 account, is here also Mr. Director. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives adopted this report at the 39th session on 18 June. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I give my word to the Vice President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3128	Very short. We had it yesterday, and I had the pleasure of discussing something we should have praised, and we are rarely in a position to praise some 38 institutions. Yesterday we received such a report, we supported it, we forwarded it to you, and they promised us, and we wished them to do even more and even better next year, and they promised to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3129	Whatever these praises are, Director, right? Here comes my colleague, Šiljegović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3130	Thank you, Mr. President. With the support of the Financial Business Report, Mr. Director and a series of commendations, the report on the financial operations of the Public Business Press Publishing Organisation "The Official Journal of BiH" for 2002 discussed the House on 18th of last year at its 10th session. I suppose you remember and you won't take it as evil, I was looking for a national structure indicator then, it seems to me of 30 employees that only two Srbin, two Hrvat, a club, and this time with support means financial business is expressing justifiable dissatisfaction with the data. If you remember, I also supported a colleague of Neimarli, who at the same time asked for information on national representation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Here's a question, why isn't there this indicator? And did you do something in that direction or do you intend to do it in the next period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3131	Just wait for the directors. Do any of you, Mr. Radović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3132	So here I join one positive assessment of the first, done report, second, the results of this company's business. I'd have a quick question just. Who is the founder of the Public Press Publishing Organisation "The Official List"?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3133	I thank my colleague, Radović. Any other delegates want to talk? I'm going to ask Mr. Director, now to come out here and explain to us that he's trying to actually give us answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3134	Mr. Chairman, MPs and guests, I thank you for the trust you have shown me that I can be here very briefly given the time you spent at this session, to say the following. JP NEO The Official Journal was established on 20 June 1945 and since then, in various organisational forms, operates until today and the last law that regulates its function is the law passed in '96, published in issue 2 of the Official Journal of the Republic of BiH. With that in mind, we have been trying for three years, to prove that it is an institution of interest for BiH and that we should get a founder who would take over entirely the part that belongs to the founder and here we have managed to get the Council of Ministers to take a decision on the provisional takeover of the JP NEO Official List into the coverage of its 39th until the law is passed which would regulate this area. So, we've been through this first step, given that it might happen if it doesn't, we can go to the Federation to take us over the Federation, or if it doesn't make us get out of the register and stop working after so many decades. But fortunately, it didn't happen. We now have a decision that is of temporary character, we have a decision to bring the Statute in line with the current requirements and we have a request to supplement the Board's membership and then to call a competition for the Director, which in this temporary cycle would solve this problem as a whole. What you asked about the national structure, I remember very well, you asked is, and last year. The structure remained the same at the moment. These are 22 Bošnjak, 4 Hrvat 2 Srbin and 1 others. However, given that the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement has been under way, which has passed all home procedures, which stipulates that all tenders will be published only in the Official Journal of the State, in order to provide for a single regulation which is the only one so far, so we are informed of these countries in transition, in accordance with European standards. After the adoption of this law, we will have to form a special service that will have to process all these tenders and we have already made contact with the countries they have and, for example, Croatia started this in January 2003 and has 135 to 150 pages of only tender every week and has revenues of some 7.5 million KM so that in this framework and as part of the new reorganisation, as part of retirement this year, we will restructure and improve the national structure. So it's in the program and the Management Board and the new leadership. I can give you some more details if you're interested in business, I'm here, if you want me to have all that data.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3135	I thank Mr. Director, I don't think there's any need, we got a report from the commission, yesterday the committee was held a debate and this report was praised. Since I don't see any more reports, I'd like to move on to the vote. So, who's to adopt this report, I'm opening a vote. We're morati have to repeat this vote. We'll do it again. Now you can vote. He was unanimously adopted. Congratulations, Director, you can go. Now we move on to the set of these ratifications, the 19th item of the agenda, Ad.19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the conditions of travel for the citizens of the two countries So here, I call on Mr Čengić to explain to us, that this is the 20th item of the agenda. Ad. 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on conditions of travel for the citizens of the two states 40 Here you go, Mr Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3136	At its 21st session, I think, the commission was considering ratifying this agreement between the two states. It looks quite simple and common, however, has caused certain dilemmas. We already have this agreement with Croatia. When the question of Serbia-Montenegro, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, arose, the question of what is Kosovo's position? Of course, we cannot decide on the legal status of any country, especially for our neighbouring countries and, of course, in the commission, the position and understanding that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia-Montenegro. And this agreement regulates a very simple thing, so that a passport and ID card can therefore cross the border with the ID card on both sides. Citizens of the two countries can cross the border. But there was a question now. What happens to those who are in Kosovo, or those who have so-called. Unmichael documents. And the commission talked about it, and in the end, we concluded that it was a serious question, and whatever we as a commission take a stand is not going to be good. We also asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to study the issue and to prepare an answer for today’s session. And since the representative of the Council of Ministers is here, Mr. Đikić, I would ask him to allow him to explain this position before his further statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3137	I'd like to thank my colleague, Čengić, and here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3138	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on conditions of travel for the citizens of the two states has been regulated by the way of crossing the state border between the two countries, a kind of transition documents and the length of stay. It is important that a visa-free regime has been introduced between the two countries, without any formalities, and that the number of documents to be transferred from the country to the country is maximised. Passport, common passport, diplomatic passport, passport, maritime booklet and most important ID card. The agreement sought to simplify the procedure of travel between the two countries, in line with the European integration processes and the liberalisation of the visa regime and the crossing of state borders in the region and later on with EU countries. The agreement will facilitate EU citizens' contacts, as well as businessmen, which creates conditions for expanding economic co-operation, and will improve overall bilateral relations. However, that agreement should not, in any way, be related to the issue of the use of unmix documents as travel documents and identification documents. This Agreement explicitly lists the conditions and documents which may be used as valid for entry into the territory of the other Party. As with travel documents, the emphasis has been placed on national legislation. Thus, Article 2(2) states that, in terms of national legislation for state-owned Serbia-Montenegro, 41 valid travel documents, as I have already stated, passport, common passport, etc. as well as travel documents issued on the basis of an international contract. In this case, documents issued by the administration, i.e. the contracting authorities, are explicitly mentioned in this case by Serbia-Montenegro on the one hand and BiH on the other. And in any case, they're not a fan of the documents. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia issue ID cards and travel documents for all Kosovo citizens with a sign of Kosovo municipalities, under quotes, and there is no dilemma about what kind of border crossing regime should be applied. All of those documents under the agreement should be issued by the Serbian authorities and accepted under the visa-free regime. The provision on travel documents issued on the basis of an international contract was made in terms of a bilateral agreement between the parties, for some future situations. If the parties wanted this agreement to apply to the draft of the documents, they would have explicitly agreed on it. In view of the political importance of this issue, which was also an exchange of views during the consultation, when agreeing on the text of the agreement. Therefore, the issue of unmix documents should not be tied to this agreement, but dealt with outside this context as a special issue. We found a solution to unmix documents and yesterday the Council of Ministers decided to introduce visas for unmichael documents because we had a whole series of objections to use, abuse of BiH territory by some users unmik documents for further transition to the West. And for this reason, the State Border Service has asked for a time to completely suspend citizens' admission with unmik documents. With this, I think this decision by the Council of Ministers, which was taken yesterday, solved this problem. So citizens will be able to enter BiH's territory through unmix documents with visas.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3139	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to talk? No, I don't. Then we'll put nothing to the vote. So who's in favour of giving consent to ratification? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, all ten, thank you. Point 21 of the agenda, Ad.21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Albania Report of the competent commission you received, the House of Representatives gave consent to the ratification of this contract at the 39th session held on 18 June 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, come in. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3140	The House's Foreign Trade Policy Commission considered this agreement at the last session and decided to propose to the House to give its consent for ratification of the agreement. It is quite a common agreement when it comes to the issue of foreign trade, so the actual suspension of customs duties between the two countries. Perhaps it is only interesting that the way this agreement addresses the issue of decreation, by moving from 2004 to 2008. So this year it's going to pay 90 percent, then next year it's 80 percent, and then 70 percent to keep the tariffs completely shut down in 2008. Everything else is quite common, and for this reason we have proposed to the House to give consent to the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3141	I thank the President of the Commission. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Who's to give consent to ratification? I'm opening a vote. The approval for ratification was unanimously given. Next item of the agenda, Add 22. An agreement between BiH and the Republic of Bulgaria on the free trade report of the committee in charge has been obtained. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this contract at the 40th session held on 25 June this year. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3142	So less the same as for the previous agreement. True, Bulgaria is a country with which BiH unfortunately does not have enough quality-developed co-operation, although it is a potentially significant partner, due to its level of economic development and because BiH has products that could be placed. We talked earlier...commissions, took a position that would probably be useful, to try to organise a meeting of the BiH Chamber of Commerce, our commission and representatives of the economy but also representatives of these countries with whom we have bilateral agreements, such as Rumunija, Albania, Bulgaria etc. Maybe through the embassy or some other way, to present opportunities for better co-operation. And it certainly remains a commitment. As far as this agreement is concerned, it is so defined that, in fact this year, 50% of customs duties are abolished when signing the agreement. This year another 40 is being abolished, a total of 90%, so that from January 1st next year customs would be 0 between the two countries. 43 I repeat, it would be very important and I think that we must make every additional effort to make this advantage towards a country that has 10 million inhabitants, so they benefit in the sense that we really improve our co-operation economically, and in particular exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3143	I thank my colleague, Čengić. No Niko signed up to discuss it. So, I open the vote, who's in favor of giving consent to ratification? The vote is open. Unanimity. Point 23 of the agenda, Add.23. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on Transboundary Television ETC 132 opened for the signing of the 5 May '89 in Strasbourg with the Protocol amending the European Convention on Transboundary Television opened for acceptance on 1 October '98, we received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this Convention at the 40th session held on 25 June 2004. I give my word to my colleague Čengić again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3144	As far as this agreement is concerned, there have been some problems as the commission has put this agreement on the agenda twice. However, for the first time unfortunately, no proposing representative appeared and members of the commission had a number of issues. For the second time, we have received a representative of the promoter in the image of the adviser of the Minister of Communications and Transport who answered certain questions. In this document, relations are regulated when it comes to broadcasting television, in fact across borders, so from the neighbourhood and the rights of each member of this Agreement individually. It is predicted that how they can deal with commercial propaganda and the rest, but there are a few issues that are unclear that we have specifically discussed. What will happen in case a political party takes advantage of its influence and eventually financial arrangements with some television in the neighborhood and starts a pre-election campaign from the neighbourhood, past the rules applicable to BiH. Let's just say, that was one question. The answer was that it is regulated in the same way as the commercial advertising rules, in other words, that BiH can react in this case, ask the TV to respect the rules applicable to BiH when it comes to a pre-election campaign. The second question that seemed very important to us is that here is not clear from the agreement. Namely, no... a question has been raised for the structure of BiH, who oversees the implementation of this agreement? What is the authority responsible, for example, to react in the event of a breach of some 44 of the norms or rules laid down in this Agreement? We got an answer, so it would be the Communications Regulatory Agency, and it's her who's in charge, and she should be following this. However, the team found out that the problem with the Regulatory Agency is that it does not have sufficient equipment to monitor this, so the question is, would the House be willing to support this problem in a way that the Regulatory Agency actually has funds that have not been spent but not approved for this purpose, so that it should therefore, on some occasions, come into a position to approve these funds? I think it's a serious question, and I suppose it could be treated when the budget rebalance question is raised, which is probably expected in some very soon time for very justified reasons. In fact, a number of state institutions that did not exist at the time of the 2004 budget were set up, which will require a rebalancing. Anyway, we believe this agreement is important, but I'll be very clear. More importantly, BiH has trained institutions to monitor the application of this agreement, as it will certainly follow the other behaviour of the BiH media, but it is an obligation for BiH to protect the interests of its citizens and the state of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3145	I thank my colleague, Čengić. No debates have been reported. I'm closing the debate. Who's to give consent to ratification? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity, 11. 24th item of the agenda, Add.24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention for the establishment of a European and Mediterranean plant protection organisation EPPO since 18 April '51. Not to read any further on these dates, you all have the exact name of this agenda point in front of you. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this convention at the 41st session held on 14 July this year. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić, here we go again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3146	So, at the 21st session, our committee discussed the issue of consent for this convention and instructed the House of Peoples to give support and give consent to ratifying this Convention. It's about the convention being relatively old. It was initiated back in '51. It has been repeatedly complemented and its essence is to protect the health of plants but also the health of animals and humans using that plant. We will certainly, in the future very soon come into a position to have growing and greater communication, i.e. the use of plants, plants from outside, there will be a question and genetically modified varieties of seeds etc. and quite certainly, that one of these conventions which normally goes in the area and with the laws already in place, which the Council of Ministers adopted and already in the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly, when 45 questions about food quality, the rules of conduct regarding the processing, processing of food products, etc. So we believe that it is useful to ratify this convention which was otherwise ratified by a large number of countries. It initially signed 13 and is now over 40 countries signatories of the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3147	I thank my colleague, Čengić. I don't see any complaints. So who's to give consent to ratification? I'm opening a vote, now. Unanimity, 11 o'clock. And we have the last item on the agenda for today's session, 25th, that's Ad.25. Report on the external and commercial policy framework of the Commission, the People's House for the period from 28 December 2003 to 18 June 2004. The commission report you received. I'm opening a debate. I give my word to the president of this committee, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3148	So, based on the Rules of Procedure, the commission, this commission is required to report to this House every three months. It is interesting that this solution is different from, say, the administrative-financial commission's obligation to submit a report every six months. We here, before you all admit that we have not fulfilled our obligation and have not filed a report in the first three months. It seemed to us somehow that if we just made that report, it wouldn't look very serious, so we shut up a little bit. Now again, in order not to be completely criticised, we have submitted this report, which briefly shows that we have considered a number of laws, a number of conventions, and that we have had a debate on a number of important issues, above all economic developments in customs policy, trade policy, etc. We listed here and the data on how long we held the session, which were the main topics, the presence, etc. So in the statistical sense, this report is one statistics on what we've been doing, and the real content of what we've been doing is actually, they represent each session's records individually. We believe that we have carried out our duties on time, and we are taking the opportunity to remind you that according to the Council of Europe's obligations, so that we remind this House of one thing, that according to our commitments to the Council of Europe, BiH is tasked with adopting a significant number of conventions and international agreements. A number has been adopted, but one number has not yet come to parliamentary procedure, although it is in the country's procedure. So at different levels. We believe that there is no reason for this process to run almost as it flows, and we inform this House of High, that according to our information, no House of Conventions and agreements stands, literally not a day more than a minimum procedure. In other words, the Parliamentary Assembly is quite certain, the most efficient, the fastest part of all of these state ratification structures. We would ask you, 46 I think that in this sense we have sent a letter, we would ask you as a College to take the necessary measures and actions on your part, to speed up the ratification procedure at different levels within the state of BiH, in order to make the commitments we have made towards the Council of Europe really do. That's the first one. And secondly, on the Rules of Procedure Committee, we have discussed this issue of different deadlines in which committees are to submit reports and we have proposed as a committee that when the draft Rules of Procedure comes, you will have this solution, that, in future, all commissions, whether the joint commissions of both homes and individual committees of homes or at least this House, will submit the report once a year. It seems to us that in a term of four years, it makes more sense. Of course, we don't run away from reporting, but it kind of seems a little illogical to go every three months with the report. In the end, we use the opportunity to ask you to lobby you to support this report and to promise to work in the future as well as so far as Mr. Boško and to show you that in all the sessions so far in this year, only one colleague for personal reasons was against just one attitude. A fellow Osman Brka, and everything else was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-07-16-0.u3149	I thank my colleague, Čengić. I don't see a report here anymore. Boško did you take for the whole club or, okay. Who's in favour of adopting this committee's report? I'm opening a vote. Unanimously, I congratulate the President of the Commission. I find that it is given, that a statement has been adopted, not a consent to ratification as it says in my reminder. So before I close this session today, I'd like to introduce you to the College's plan for our further activities. We predicted that there would be another session, at the end of this month, probably that last Thursday in July that there would be a session, 29th so that you would plan our commitments and wish that there would be no tails left, that since the House of Representatives would have a day before or two days before the session, that we too would do our part of the work and then we would probably go on this holiday in August and continue in September to new working victories. Then we'll see how we can schedule that September, because it's gonna be the top election campaign. I'm closing the session, thank you very much. The session was completed at 3:10 p.m.
