ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u10996	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, representatives of international NGOs who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of this session, have been invited to attend the session. To all who have responded to the work of this session, I warmly thank you. According to the report, the Service attends 38 MPs, 25 from the Federation and 13 from Republika Srpska, which means we have a quorum and we can make full and full decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, you have received a draft agenda of the 29th session. Meanwhile, we received two proposals to expand the agenda. The first is the inclusion of a motion for a resolution on the 2003-2004 declaration of young people in... solidarity proposed by MP Tihomir Gligorić and - the second is the proposal by the HDZ-de-Christians Club to form the establishment, so the formation of an investigative commission to determine the circumstances and arrest Mr Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce, Miroslav Rupčić, with the aspect of respect for the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of those arrested. Yesterday, we had a session of an extended college, supported by the College's proposal to complement the agenda by including and forming an investigative commission on the proposal of the HDZ-Dedem Christian Parliament Club. As far as Mr Tihomir Gligorić's motion for a resolution is concerned, I suggest that the House adopt a conclusion to refer the resolution to the committee responsible for acceptance and consideration. So, that has been the procedure so far with all resolutions and I don't think there's any need to make an exception since it's been done, according to my assessment of the good proposal for a resolution. I believe this House of Representatives will accept this resolution at the next session. So what I'm still informing you is that, therefore, the commission, relating to point 9, is the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Insurance Agency Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I suggest that this point be removed, since the Joint Commission has not finished its work on harmonisation. So we would just move the agenda points, so instead of 13 we would have 12 points of the agenda. 2 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić, Mr. Belkić. Here you go. Okay, then, Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u10997	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs and deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a new agenda. It is - Information from the Council of Ministers on the degree of implementation of the adopted programme with a special view, I would like to stress a special review of the country's roadblockers and reforms. The reason for my request to be included as an additional, final item in the agenda is that of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and Presidents and Minister of Trade, Mr Doka, on the 5.12 Vot šop chaired by Mr Hejs and Mr Henfis, an extremely eminent gathering that spoke about reforms in the electricity system where this parliament is publicly accused of obstructing the adoption of reform laws and not helping the Council of Ministers in the realisation of the programme. Today at Mr Hejs' OHR's, we heard the same charges, so this parliament should be informed about all this and see where this Parliament's fault is. That's a brief explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u10998	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I would only ask you to deliver the exact name of the agenda point in writing. Mr. Belkić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u10999	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would only in some way comment on the proposal of the chairman regarding the removal of the 9th item of the agenda for today's session that was in the proposal. Of course I can't, and I don't have the arguments that would be in favour of today's discussion, because obviously we don't have a report, but the least we should do is let this Parliament know what it is. We have already taken this item off the agenda for the second and third time, with reasons, no agreement has been reached. Let's see what this is about. If, of course, the College has some information from the Commission on the progress and results and efforts that seem to be in this direction. That's one thing. And the Party for BiH MPs' Club joins this initiative by Mr. Moranjkić, because we absolutely think it is necessary that the overall House of Representatives be informed as soon as possible, given the time when this meeting was held on the tone and content of the talks we had with the Deputy High Representative and representatives of financial and other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina which support in some way reforms. So I hope Mr. Moranjkić defines this item of the agenda. We will absolutely support her. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11000	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I just want to give an interpretation of the 9th point – The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement. It is best for the college to submit to the Report that the Commission has not reached its agreement. But it's turning back. We therefore have an open opportunity for the Commission to agree to the law. So that's the only information. So the Commission had a meeting, but we can't, if we write the report -- it didn't agree with the law, so we don't have the law. We're leaving the Commission a chance to try to get her to agree. It's not too late for the next session either. I agree that the Commission has already met 2-3 times and has no business opportunities. So we have the opportunity to inform the Commission whether it has reached or not. We don't have any written material. So the Commission is still working, seeking the possibility of reaching agreement. Dr. Tihomir Gligorić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11001	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed a resolution on the 2004 and 2005, age of young people, years of solidarity, and I did so on time. We have often heard criticism in Parliament that when it comes to resolutions, they are usually late. I made an effort to make it in time. The chairman rightly said in terms of the previous issue that should have been addressed. And we have often argued here according to the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure clearly defined that it is necessary to declare the House of Representatives in advance if he does not receive support that he is then going to the commission stage. Given that in the resolution itself I have proposed that the Council of Ministers should propose a practical programme of these measures, then we will certainly have enough time to reach the committee as after the phase, after the Council of Ministers will, of course, support this resolution. This leaves time and opportunity to possibly be complemented by the fact that the Council of Ministers is actually proposing that it come up with all of this. In this case, I would ask the Members of Parliament to make a preliminary statement about this resolution and to make it an integral, item of today's agenda, and that, after the debate has been held, we should actually make a statement about all this. But I would ask, however, that this does not go into the commission phase, as said in the previous question, but that we go to a statement according to this resolution and that it is as a point of the agenda. If he doesn't get his support, he'll go to the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11002	I thank Dr. Gligorić. So as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter. It is a good document, but here is Parliament to determine whether it will go to the commission, and in the debate, or the first debate of the committee. I think that Parliament's decision is necessary for that. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the proposed agenda. 4 Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we have only one addition, which is the addition of Mr Muhamed Moranjkić, where it is said - Information from the Council of Ministers on the degree of implementation of the adopted programme with special reference to the brakes of the implementation of this programme as well as reforms in this country. Who's to include this as the 13th item of the agenda? Who's against it? Abstained? I figure with one vote against, four abstentions we adopted to make this the 13th point of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second proposal, Mr Gligorić, asking for the resolution to be the point of the agenda as the 14th and to be discussed today and, of course, has a proposal from the College to declare it first by the committee in charge. So I'll put it on, please. I'm putting forward a proposal, so the first proposal is to go to the board of directors. Who's for this resolution to go to the board of directors? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a moment, don't throw it away right now. So with three abstentions I find that we've accepted, there's none against it. You can't go against counting when the numbers are held back. Never mind. So, please, with three abstentions, most of the votes we adopted that Dr. Tihomir Gligorić's resolution should be discussed in the committee responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted the next agenda. I'm reading the agenda for a stenogram. So Agenda: 1. Journal of the 28th session, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities (Second Reading), 4. Proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment (second reading), 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure (second reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Rule of BiH (second reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on violations of BiH (second reading), 9. The proposal for a conclusion on the issue of "The current economic and social situation in BiH, with a specific focus on protecting and stimulating domestic production", 10. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for BiH for 2003, 5 11. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Additional Protocol of the Convention against Doping and (b) Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. The formation of an investigative commission, a proposal from the HDZ-de-Christian Parliament Club, to conclude, in order to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce, Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms during the arrest, 13. Mr. Moranjkić's proposal, it is the Council of Ministers' Information on the degree of implementation of the adopted programme with special reference to the brakes on the implementation of the programme as well as reforms in this country. So that's 13, the agenda point. I ask the Service to inform the Council of Ministers, chairman, that they are required to submit a report on the 13th point. As long as I'm not, of course, asking, I don't know what anyone wanted, Mr. Belkić, you're all present at the Expansive College. It's here, don't let me give my sights of people acting on an enlarged college and here. We also agreed with the chairman last night that Parliament would be informed once a month. And I don't mind being informed every day. Here you go. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11003	I mean, when it comes to behavior. I think I was absolutely clear. Unfortunately, Mr. Moranjkić compared to what he was saying here with a different formula. And I missed the intervention because I didn't know what he was formulating. So, I was saying that order would be Mr. Chairman and I expected the College to tell you about the MPs - we were in the OHR 15 minutes ago talking to the Deputy High Representative and the leaders of the institutions that sort of support these reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the IMF etc. and there we have been taught a lesson and this parliament has somehow been brought into the position of responsible structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are not being implemented. It has been prevented from stopping all aid to this country if the authorities don't do things differently. And I think it's time to tell these people what happened here. That we had a chance, because we didn't get a chance there. 35 people were collected and held there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11004	Let's stick to the agenda, Mr. Belkić, not to inform who was in the meeting. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11005	Of course we'll stick to the agenda. Of course, Mr. Špirić, but we'll find a way to talk to this guy. Or to answer. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11006	Okay. I agree to define the agenda point and I'm ready to discuss it. So we move to the first item of the agenda. That's Ad.1. The log from the 28th session of the House of Representatives you received. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, who is it to adopt the minutes of the 28th House of Representatives? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I understand the record was unanimously adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. They're Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to questions were received by MPs Muhamed Suljkanović, Ljiljana Miličević, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Ruža Sopta, Mirsad Ćeman, Beriz Belkić. Does anyone need to comment on the answers they received? Mr. Belkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11007	I thank the College, I thank the College for the answer, so that I knew. I was simply told we didn't get a security policy, but I expected that the College would try to take an interest in the material of those who were obliged to propose it, but here are the answers we didn't get security policy. It doesn't matter that we didn't, and it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11008	I thank my colleague, Belkić. The College forwarded a request to the Bureau for the document to be submitted to us, so it was not, we did not remain inert to this question, but the question was decadent, whether we got an answer or didn't get an answer. Yeah, yeah. Yes, it is. Does anyone have any further comments? There's no one here. I am opening an opportunity to ask new parliamentary questions. Who's answering for a word? Moranjkić. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11009	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, compared to koridor V-c-c, activities are being carried out at the construction of the so-called so-called. fast roads, these are actually the connections of certain regions to the Corridor V-c itself. My question is, and by the way, a little bit more dipression, you see in several of the latest information funds that this problem is already being imposed. Who leads, and if he leads, activities in the realisation of the projects of these roads, and what roads are they involved in, and what are their orientation routes, and how far have they come with these projects? ( b) What are their orientational bones, and how will they be financed? And under - c) Who and how do they decide priorities, and what are the criteria when it comes to building fast roads, i.e. connections to Corridor V-c? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11010	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Mrs Milićević answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11011	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I have one question and one question. The first question is – How many laws is it and what laws are sent by the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives of the Paralementary Assembly at the stage of adoption, or are they obstructed under alleged signs by this home? And the question is: Is the possible submission of the amendments and the longer alignment also considered an obstruction?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11012	Who's next to the word? Here you go. What's his name?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11013	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, my question is - at what stage is the adoption of the Law on the Roads of Bosnia and Herzegovina for which the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was scheduled to adopt in 2003? - Has something been done at the institutional organisation and establishment of a road management system at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Is the establishment of a road management at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina planned? It's a matter of the Council of Ministers. I hope the answer will arrive in time, that it won't wait a few months as it can wait for some of the questions. I've given a written explanation here, and here's what I'm putting into question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11014	Thank you. Dr. Gligorić answered the word. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11015	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina - what measures do they think to take against those officials who publicly create tensions and executions and destabilise the country's constitutional order and thus question the state's credibility on the internal and external agenda? If there are any more details, I'm willing to explain our problem to them. I think and, of course, at the same time I think that you are all aware that this overall story about the constitutional system and the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially abroad, and even with us here, is really contributing to the fact that the world is out there, and our citizens don't know which way we should go either. Do such conflict situations and such different assessments talk a lot about us in Bosnia and Herzegovina and do we, in this way, actually cut the branch where we sit without even being aware of it? And also the High Representative who has great powers here, I can see that you've had a meeting now, so you've had some problems here and what it looks like to give qualifications and assessments of how the country is being threatened, etc. If something is not done, so are these officials that I also evaluate them with their statements to destabilise this country. And that's why the High Representative should, using his powers to say, here's an example of sanctioning and, say, anti-Dayton statements. Of course I'm saying I'm ready to talk about the details, but this is quite enough for these two institutions to be able to express themselves. Of course, I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11016	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Dr. Lagumdžija Zlatko called to say the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11017	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the appreciation of colleagues and colleagues, I have two questions. One question I was offered by the answer we got. Namely, one MP, or MP, asked a question in a very decent way to the Council of Ministers – why did it implement amendments to the Customs Policy Act by its decisions of October last year? And she got the answer which is the matter of that MP whether he likes it or not. However, I now want to ask this precise question to the Council of Ministers -- under what conditions, why, who approved to import, import meat processing for which the public is more than well known to, not only be completely contrary to what we discussed twice here at the end of last year and when we adopted conclusions on the protection of domestic production? I'm not going to talk about it, I'm not asking the question in this context, but it's evident that trash that directly imports into this country are most directly disrupting the health of the population of this country, and above all, the youngest. So this is no longer about economic policy, this is about something that happens in every country in the world in the most cruel way possible. 9 I therefore ask to be answered under what conditions is imported meat that has shown that it does not satisfy the basic health or fitness of sanitary conditions and that, by decision of the Council of Ministers of 2.10.2003? Who approved it? Why did he approve it? What was done by that decision? Has there been any analysis of this? Who was in control of that? What's the result of that control? Who's even responsible for this and is this gonna happen again? That's one question. But I would ask that this question be referred to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. And I would honestly hope that we will have a serious debate about it, not just get an answer to the question. Second question. The public is aware that long-term co-operation with a major world concert called Folks Wagen has been put at risk. Because of decisions made by the Council of Ministers that are different from what has been done for a few years and that conditions have been created for Folks wagen to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina without going to some other parts of the region, one administrative decision, responsible for the unresponsibility of the administrative decision is being called into question by one such investor. For those of you who forgot to remind you that three years ago, Folks Wagen came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, although from the neighbouring state, Folks Wagen was offered to come there for nothing in one of the major regional and European recognizable cars. Today, from what is related to the project, last year exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina were close to 200 million marks. About the Folks Wagen as a symbol of foreign direct investment, which would mean pulling the Folks Wagen out of here, I don't want to speculate at all. So I'd like to ask why we're in danger of co-operation with a concert this big? Who's responsible for the problems with the development of this project? And what will be done, or what will be done to prevent a stalemate in the expansion of the production network of this large foreign investor in Bosnia and Herzegovina? That would be my second question and I'm giving it to you. And since this is the agenda point, I would ask the chairman not to take on another agenda item, I really suggest that we prepare and analyse parliamentary issues for one of the next sessions. This is becoming a self-inflicted purpose. And the fact that we have empty chairs here is the least said, I mean degutantly and should be informed of the bar, the wolf is earlier in all Council of Ministers' meetings, not in the past, but in the one of '96. when parliamentary issues were raised, therefore there is a positive experience, there were always representatives of the Council of Ministers here and each ministry had its own representative and the same coalition that is now in power and any other. This is the first time the Council of Ministers has put in practice that this parliament does not cut for a dry plum. 10 And that is why I propose that such a conclusion be concluded by the chairman, which is why I do not suggest the conclusion that the Council of Ministers be bound by Parliament's conclusion, so let him respect him that every time he sits here, we would be spared from these pointless answers he gives us. Because I can answer half the answers they're asked to right away and at least it would make sense to do all of this. Here, I'll leave this for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11018	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I must say that yesterday we spoke to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, they begged us not to schedule meetings of Parliament on Thursdays because they had Council meetings, but there was no other term because we would have another session at the end of the month. So they don't obstruct, they have a Council of Ministers meeting today and we'll keep an eye on the agreement to schedule meetings to ensure their presence. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. Of course, we can accept this proposal by Mr Lagumdžija to prepare an analysis of the answers to the parliamentary questions to be serious. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11019	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I will point out once again that I have not received a single answer to the asked parliamentary question since I have asked them. Every time I repeat it here, I believe someone will hear it one day. I have two parliamentary questions. First – What is the national structure of employees at the Regulatory Agency for Communications? According to the information that has been available in the media in recent weeks in the work of this agency, besides, it seems to me to be parliamentary issues, what are the salaries, and to which we have never received answers, there are also a number of others, I think I call them secrecy. It's as if this is our regulatory agency and this is someone else's and that this information must not be available to both this and everything else related to this agency to this home and to the general public. The second question – How many cantons have adopted and implemented constitutional amendments on the consistency of the people? I don't need to explain myself, so this question. There's been a lot of writing in the media these days, and I'd like to ask for an answer from the Council of Ministers in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11020	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11021	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, my question is - What will the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do against the ambassadors of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Stockholm, Mrs Mediha Filipović and Mirza Kušljugić, the UN ambassador to New York, for violating the 11 standards of conduct of the division of a common delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of ugly names for a people who do not like both dignity and the reputation of a diplomat? Our public is aware that the International Conference on Genocide was held in Stockholm, where Mrs Filipović singled out only the Bosniak delegation and, together with the Bosniak diaspora, presented a film on the death of Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without the Croatian and Serbian delegation even knowing about such a meeting. Mr Kuršljugić also said in the UN that the Dayton Agreement did not distinguish between the victim and the aggressor, and indeed if the presidency does not do anything against these diplomats, we will now be asking, and I assume that our presidency member to invite all Serbian diplomats to give them instructions to do what they do and Bosniak, so we will see if these are the people who are supposed to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina or their peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11022	I thank my colleague Jovanović. I'm asking MPs without throwing them away. Dr. Živković picked up the phone. Here you go. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11023	Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen and MPs, Mr. Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković said he did not get answers to the letters, and I would have added better if I didn't get an answer. What kind of answers are these? Half of January I asked that a cemetery is being built at the entrance to the Mostar facility, it is already in office, and I received an answer that will take all measures. And the building facility it's already functioning. So, so much for questions. But a man can't be calm, because the neighbors ask me all the time, do you do anything up there, ask you anything, Jović, what happens to dreams, as far as we're at? So I want to say here today that we have a part of our country that's in the state and it's also named after Dayton and today the Brcko District, and there's some high or high and low, and I don't know who, with that part of our country, and they're making decisions in a way that is confirmed by both you dear and respected representatives, the formation of a commission that went out on the ground and saw the situation of human rights violations, so I think we're going to get that information very soon, what our people did in the Brcko District and what it looks like. I just want to say that there were 23 thousand Hrvat in this space before the war, that three thousand live today. The 91st list is applied everywhere, and here 4% of the 25% of the number on the list is now 4% of the maximum participation in any form of government. When in Parliament of that part that I think should be part of our country, a decision is made on the Election Law, because you know they are a state in the state, they have their own laws and so on. I think that soon the bills will have, so all representatives of both the SDP and the HDZ and the NHI and the Sectional parties will show their disagreement with the proposed Electoral Law and leave Parliament, you make a high and low international decision, work on it and make a decision, and so they did. So today in 12 of that part of the country you have means people who are provided without the right to participate in public life. And then, here comes another analogy, so my question is to the High Representative. I don't know what he's high for, but that's how they named him, it refers to the imposed statute in the town of Mostar, which is literally created by a city, which violates the fundamental human rights of this apparent unity, where there is no rule in this, it is expected that there should be a government, and there will certainly be no rule of law, democratic standards and respect for the European Charter of Local Self-Government and will make it significantly more difficult for democratic processes in BiH, because this act, instead of overcoming war and national divisions, will cause new conflicts with unsightly consequences. And then in the article of this Statute, the 14th lie, that fair democratic and other attributes will be carried out, elections when Parliament is already drawn. Why, does he not want a high representative of the peaceful, united and future facing the European Mostar? It's a question to him. What's done is embarrassing. Will this rule apply if it remains in principle, and for the next elections for the House of Representatives, in the Federation and the House of Representatives, which we are doing here today, so that in that case, the Hrvat are not only constitutional, but also sovereign in BiH, with two other peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11024	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović, for his word, Dokrot Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11025	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think we needed this last item, and that we should simply have one practice, practice meetings with the Council of Ministers, in order to remove many controversys in the functioning of the BiH Parliamentary House. In fact, the College pointed out quite well, the fundamental objective of this Parliament in 2004, is that the power of decision, the creation of politics in BiH is absolutely restored to Parliament. If so, and it is, then objectively I only suggest what has already been proposed in the Rules of Procedure and adopted by both Houses. It means that in the coming months, we are practicing joint meetings with the Council of Ministers, the thematic character of people, because political issues have lost every sense and political question to the Council of Ministers directly. I ask you to adopt this proposal, or suggestion as you will, the initiative and the Council of Ministers, to find ways and times to sit together for 2-3 hours and to simply communicate and talk. This is particularly important in the coming months when we meet the conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and not to be referred to with parliamentary questions. And at a later stage, think normally, and about the representatives of the international community that we are going to call here in terms of communicating on issues, i.e. simply about the possibilities of creating relations with the international community as well. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11026	I thank my colleague Avdić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So, ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted the agenda, the parliamentary questions and the answers. 13 We're going to the third point, that's Ad.3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, in a second reading According to the House's conclusion, a statement on the Bill's proposal was postponed at the last session. The interim commission is tasked with reviewing the OHR's suggestions of the BiH Election Commission for amendments it has adopted, and proposing a final solution to the dom's adoption of the law. The new Interim Commission report you received. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that this adoption in the second reading of this law is taking too long, we accepted part of the amendment part yesterday on the Interim Commission, I would ask today that we do not open a wide debate, that we adopt amendments and additions to this law, and if someone has the ambition to write a new Law on conflict of interest and that is good, but here we simply bring together the debate and the clarification on the amendment and addition of the Law on conflict of interest. I'm opening a debate with these brief notes. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a first statement on the Interim Commission Report that you've received. It would, of course, become an integral part of the text of the law. So who's in favour of accepting the 11th02 report is from yesterday's date. Who's in favour of accepting this report? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? They have three abstentions. So, of the 37 present, 34 were for, and 3 were abstentions. I agree, we have both the majority and the entity majority and that the Interim Commission report was adopted on 11.02. We move to a statement on the so-called Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the authorities in the second reading. Who's in favor of accepting this proposal? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I agree that with 1 abstention and 36 for, we have accepted amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. Thank you. Moving to the fourth point, that's Add.4. Proposal for a law on the production of weapons of military equipment, in the second reading at the 28th session of the bill we adopted in the first reading. You have previously received a report from the competent commission that adopted one amendment to the bill. 14 Mrs. Seada Palavrić, has tabled two amendments to the Bill's proposal by calling for Article 94 point 3a. It means new resources (?) which the Commission did not have in mind when considering this legislative proposal, as regards the harmonisation of this law with the Criminal Law of BiH and the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. I'm opening an amendment debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Seada Palavrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11027	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have all received a secure letter from the Office of the High Representative pointing to these two members of the law. However, I would like to draw attention to this occasion that there are more things in the law that are not quite so agreed first and foremost the question of the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Trade is making a decision that decides on someone's request and that this is finally a solution and that there is no appeal about it. But I didn't want to trouble you right now let's have the law, so right now, I think it would be good for this house to task the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Trade to see if it really is in line with the European Convention to deny the right to appeal and that this solution is finally a solution. And the other thing, in one place in the law, it says that this foreign trade ministry is deciding whether or not I want to withdraw from NGO production I have the right to do so. So only if he decides to let me back off, then I'll be able to back off. It sounds a little illogical to me. So these two things I'd like Dom to warn the promoter, so let him plead as soon as possible. And when it comes to this, these two amendments, I think it's quite clear to all of us that in Article 13, this type of qualification, this is the description of the offense, because this is a violation, so it's not essentially a crime. He lacks many elements, and Professor Kunić can say that would be a crime. In addition, as criminal acts, the actions referred to in Article 3. Laws provided for by the entity and law of the Brcko District. And I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't accept both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11028	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Who further answers the question of the amendment debate? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11029	Dear colleagues, I must say we have a procedural problem. In fact, Article 94(3) (a) says – when they therefore refer to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account. We have to say this committee could have considered it. So why didn't it now be a whole other question. If we were to strictly market the Rules of Procedure, we would not be able to see at all the discussion of these amendments, and these amendments would be practically left as a possibility to go with the law on amendments and amendments to the subsequent law and to go with amendments to these members, that is, the new law. 15 So what is here now is the point of saying to Parliament is whether or not to accept that these amendments are being declared under Article 94 point 3.a) and I would ask that first in such a way, if we decide that only then we are discussing the amendments themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11030	Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you of Article 94.3a where it says – once the debate begins, the chairman will consult with the vice-president's deputies only in the following cases when the new aspects of the committee could not be taken into account and when...to agree on two or more proposals in which the debate is being held. So Article 94.3a) opens up this possibility to discuss amendments, and I think that, in fact, it is about amendments that clarify and that amendments that do not disturb therefore do not create a restructuring of the law, and that possibility in the Rules of Procedure exists if it is about new aspects, and of course it is about new aspects. So there's a business possibility. We won't be wrong about the Rules of Procedure. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I am concluding the debate and we are pleading on the amendments of Ms. Seada Palavrić. Who's in favor of accepting the amendment? Is there any need for me to read Amendment number I? There isn't. Who is it to accept the amendment number and Mrs. Seada Palavrić? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Give it to me. So of 33 present 29 for, no one against, abstention 3. I find the amendment number and it's accepted. Moving on to the statement on Amendment number II Mrs. Seada Palavrićć Who is it for us to accept Amendment number II? Who's restrained? Do you mind? So of the 34 present 27 for, 6 against, no one abstention. We've got most of it. We're going to an entity statement. Who's in favor of the Federation? Thank you. Who's for from Republika Srpska? Four doesn't have enough. No, there isn't. Four doesn't have enough. So I figure 4 from Republika Srpska doesn't have enough majority from entities. No entity. Since this is in the second reading of the law, there's no Martin. We didn't agree to a vote. Who's against the Federation? There's no one here. Who's from Republika Srpska against? 2 against the Republic of Serbia, no one from the Federation. I find Amendment II Seade Palavric accepted. 16 Ladies and gentlemen are going to declare the vote in the law. Who is it for us to accept the draft law on the production of weapons and military equipment in the second reading? We didn't get along. They realized we weren't, but we're going back to the plea. We did. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find, please, just a little silence and patience, that the bill on the production and arms of military equipment has been passed. We're going to the 5th point of the agenda, please just a little bit, we're going to the 5th point, that's Ad.5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second reading We adopted this legislative proposal in the first reading at the 28th session. The committee has adopted two amendments that have become an integral part of the bill. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. So I'm opening a debate in the second reading. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for us to support the Amendment and Supplement Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure in Second Reading In the first reading of the Proposal for a Law was adopted at last session. There were no amendments at the commission stage. There are no amendments in the plenary phase either. We would therefore conclude the possibility of a debate. We're going to, if there's no need to discuss this, is anyone answering for a debate? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for us to support the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Administrative Procedure? Do you mind? Abstained eventually? There's no one here. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Amendment Act and the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act. 17 Moving to the 7th point of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Amendments submitted by Mirsad Ćeman and Momčilo Novaković to the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading were not adopted at the commission stage. Mirsad Ćeman has filed an amendment that wants to defend at the plenary stage. The Sopta Ruža brought one amendment to Rule 94(a) of its Rules of Procedure. It means new aspects that the Commission could not take into account. I'm opening an amendment debate. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. Here you go. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11031	We will not maintain, the Party for BiH MPs' club will not support this amendment for two reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11032	Excuse me, what amendment? There are Ćeman and ruža Sopta. What amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11033	I'm talking about the amendment to the Sopta ruža. So for two reasons. At first, we are not convinced that the rational and cheaper this solution that is offered is one thing and another thing about the very name of the language. It's about the Bosnian language. Of course you think you should call it Bosniak, but that's your thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11034	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11035	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have come out, although I have given the basic signs of my argument in writing in the light of the amendments that I only underline one thing that I want to say here in front of this house. Namely, according to my deep conviction and interpretation, even the Constitution and the provisions that concern me, let me say the rights of both individual and collective in the context of this and the right to language and letter of the constituent peoples, therefore, by my deep conviction, one such practical solution that I propose in relation to the publication of official documents of the laws and others in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in exchange in one language and letter, in any order you wish, Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian and so on. does not affect or deny, so this approach does not deny the rights of constituent peoples, it is not an attack on human rights and it is very practical and cheaper, a significantly cheaper solution. My intention was, in fact, just to say that it wasn't even in my final thought that we were to attack the language, that is, the right of the constituent peoples, but to try to find a more practical and 18 cheaper solution. I wish, if for nothing else to at least consider it my sincere intention, and the matter of this home is, of course, how this amendment will be determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11036	Is there anyone else to answer for? The Sopta Ruža. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11037	I don't see Mr. Belkić, I wanted to talk to you, and I don't see why it would be less rational, less cheap, Mr. Ćeman's proposal, but my proposal, because I think, and I can explain that this is cheaper. If all of us who take the official note are given three languages, we automatically have three times the amount of paper we use. And if we have a message in one language, each will, in three languages separately, order in that language as it pleases. Companies that order, we're not the only users of official texts. Companies that order can order 10 in Bosniak, Bosnian, 10 in Serbian, 10 in Croatian. And this way, if they need 30, they'll order 30x3. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11038	I thank my colleague Sopta. Vinko Zorić, Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11039	I said goodbye to the Deputy Minister. There's no one from the Council of Ministers. I'd like a colleague of Ćeman and a colleague of the Sopta to withdraw their amendments. I think the best solution we've had so far is really not to hold down today's session of work around here. In my opinion, this is neither political nor any big question at all to discuss it for a long time. I think you'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11040	I thank you for your constructive proposal. I think, of course, I'm joining the suggestion if the amendment's proposings want to accept this reasonable explanation. So we're voting on the law to adopt it so we don't vote on the amendment. No amendments. If there's that mood, Mrs. Sopta. I'd like a colleague of Ćeman's, please. Come on. I'd like to ask you to find out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11041	I'd like to make a little joke about myself. I sometimes, for reasons of professional deformation as a lawyer, like to read memos and you are witnessing that I rarely invest a lot of amendments and I really try to help to the extent that my abilities are there to make the laws and regulations and others look better, if nothing at least from legal technique, and sometimes, of course, essentially within the limits of my abilities. It was rare that, for practical or pragmatic reasons, I withdrew amendments to improve the processes, etc. I sometimes consider it simply by eradicating one effort without its testing on one of these competent bodies. 19 Today I will not withdraw this amendment with a deep belief that there is no policy behind what I am saying, but one belief that it is more rational and more efficient and effective without attack on anyone's rights. That's why I'm asking you to make a statement about him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11042	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. So he won't withdraw the amendment. Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go. Let's, let's take it slow, we'll finish it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11043	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't, I've been contacted, so I thought I'd give up in terms of if and the distinguished representative Čeman gave up this amendment. I went out to say 2-3 sentences and in reality. I don't have a single thought for the ill intention of an esteemed representative of the Čeman. I didn't go out in any way. But what I'd like to say is that they know such things, they're a very bad solution, sometimes with severe consequences. We are witnessing that lately the Constitutional Court has persistently said – you do not have in the original text of the Federation in the Constitution of the Federation the word County, and you gentlemen Hrvat do what you have in your own language, because it is not in the original text and the matter is over. So we don't have the Federation Constitution written in Croatian. Then there's absurdity. Let me remind you of another absurd. On the website of the Central Bank, if you were asked when the bills of our state were introduced, everyone would have told her so long ago. And on October 23rd, two months ago, the institution's shameful text in Bosnia and Herzegovina was just withdrawn. And you know what it said? The 1-mark bill features the character of Franjo Jukić, the Serb Orthodox church of the monk. And the 100-mark character includes Nikola Šop, a Croatian poet and writer from Jajc, the Macedonian writer said. Well, I think a better message to respect each other, a respected and esteemed representative, would be good, and here I am suggesting or not to pass a proposal like this, so some time soon, is that for guesses or years, until things come to their place we see with our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11044	Okay. Thank you. We're closing the debate. Here comes the chairman. Let him take over the procedure, so I don't get involved, I've had enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11045	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the amendment debate. I'm sorry Mr. Ćeman didn't withdraw the amendment. Let's make a statement. Who's in favour of accepting Mr. Mirsad Ćeman's amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11046	This is just for college reasons. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11047	Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11048	Seada's principled.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11049	Are there any abstentions?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11050	He didn't go by clearly. No way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11051	And you might think you've given up what kind of compromise that would be. Ladies and gentlemen of the 36 MPs, in six against 24, abstention four. So Mr. Mirsad Ćeman's amendment was not accepted. That concludes our statement on the amendments. We're going to vote on the draft law in the second reading. Who is it for us to accept the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. That's Ad.8. Proposal for a law on violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, another reading You have a report from the competent commission that adopted an amendment that was submitted by Dr Petar Kunić at the proposal for the law at the commission stage. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement about the draft law on violations in the second reading. Who's in favor of accepting this law? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 21 So we move to the 9th point of the agenda. That's Ad.9. The proposal for a conclusion on the current economic social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a specific reference to the protection and promotion of domestic production At last session, as you know, we have discussed the proposal for conclusions prepared by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. We have concluded that, on the basis of the discussion and the proposal to supplement the conclusions, the Commission is considering one more conclusion and, for the next session of the House, proposes the updated conclusions on adoption. You've reached new conclusions from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate on new conclusions. This is my colleague, Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11052	I regret to say again that this temporary, therefore, Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has not again made a proposal for a conclusion that would be adequate to what we were talking about. First of all, point 2 is undefined -- this House of Representatives as part of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities. Then at point 5, he says -- that the Council of Ministers in co-operation with entity governments should outline a strategy for the development of agriculture. I ask the Commission to tell us where it draws that responsibility from the Council of Ministers - a strategy for the development of agriculture. So which ministry in the Council of Ministers will prepare this strategy? In point 6. – it is up to the Council of Ministers to develop an analysis of agricultural prices in co-operation with entity governments. Same question as the last one? Then point 8. As far as I can remember, we've been looking here, at least I've been looking for this speaker to get us a decision from the House of Human Rights to see exactly what the House says to the Federation authorities and then we can judge. So we're not judging by the flat. I ask again where is the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction in the area of pensions? Which ministry will be able to do that? So much for now for this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11053	I thank my colleague, Seada Palavrić. Ladies and gentlemen, you know how long we've been having a debate about these conclusions about Parliament's integrity and seriousness, and it would be good to adopt conclusions today. They're somewhere general, somewhere explicit. But I think it's a good day to adopt these conclusions. The Council of Ministers can do it. Why can't it because the agriculture strategy comes with the entity ministry? So the Council can initiate or can, I don't know. So the Foreign Trade Ministry. So 22 are initiated by the Council of Ministers to do what they can. Not to take what he can't. To coordinate. So the role of the Council of Ministers is co-ordinated where there is no original jurisdiction. But the worst thing is to stay deaf to what we discussed here. I think these conclusions are good and they're improved compared to what we had last time. And this is a similar debate that we had about the Law of Conflict of Interest. That's why I think we're showing some seriousness today to adopt. I don't mind, of course, if we can even improve our conclusions, but I'm afraid we're going back into the same discussion. Who's next to the word? Here you go, Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11054	Mr. Chairman, just because I consider these conclusions very serious, I'm saying what I'm saying. I'm asking for a 15-minute break from the SDA Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11055	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break. A 15-minute break was sought by the president of SDA MPs' Club Sead Palavrić. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11056	After the meeting of the Club, I would like to inform you that the Club has taken the view that it is necessary to vote on these conclusions one by one with the proposal that the conclusion under point 8 reads: - In order to overcome the problem of the economic social situation covered by the decisions of the House of Human Rights, the Council of Ministers is to urgently ensure that all decisions of the House for Human Rights are implemented in co-operation with the governments of the entity and the Brcko District.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11057	This is, of course, a proposal from the SDA Parliament Club. I think if we vote individually, I don't know how long it's gonna take. We'll make it clear. Shall we vote individually on the proposal for a conclusion? I think we've had a global debate and we've come to conclusions that should improve the situation and I think this is the least time for some political debate. I think that the Commission has made a lot of efforts, in my view, to come up with conclusions that are broadly acceptable, and that the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry will extract from this what it can objectively do to improve this economic situation. 23 So who is it that we individually declare these conclusions? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So of the 33 present for 18, versus 14, abstention 1. We're going to an entity. Who's in favor of the Federation? Who's in favour of Republika Srpska? Niko. So there are no two from Republika Srpska. So he doesn't have an entity majority. Two from Republika Srpska, 16 from the Federation. He's going for a match. No, obviously we can't get along. We're going for a new circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11058	I would like a colleague, i.e. a secretary or a college, although the College is in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, can it be approached by consent without the presence of all three members of the College? So, can you even enter the process of alignment, no matter what the result?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11059	But it's enough that one is against it, and here one is no way to match it. We're going to the second round of voting. That if there's a chance they can get along. Man, why not? We can wait five hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11060	No, not if we can even get into the matching process if there's no 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11061	The two of us are different opinions you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11062	That's what it is when you enter the process. But until you're inside, we don't know what the opinions are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11063	I beg you, see today we with these conclusions must end. We can if someone insists on taking five minutes off to get Mr. Martin. We'll have the same situation, but here, I don't think there's any need. Since there is no possibility of the College agreeing, as that possibility does not exist, we must carry out a second round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11064	I'm looking for a five-minute break. 24 Pause
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11065	Are the MPs in the O.R.? Ladies and gentlemen, where are we now, Šefik? How did it not go? Let's continue, since Mr. Raguž has arrived, all three of which we don't have consent, we're working in the second round, we're going with a statement. Who is from the Federation against therefore having to vote individually for this proposal by Mrs Palavrić? Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's from Republika Srpska against? Against, yes, yes. Who's against the Federation? Who's from Republika Srpska against? Give me the results. I'm asking you just a little silence to finish this, that the conclusion of our debate ends this way. From the Federation v. 8, from Republika Srpska 11 v. So she didn't pass Mrs. Seada Palavrić's proposal. We're going to make a statement on the conclusions in the package. Who's to support
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11066	One moment, one moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11068	Please, nice. Mrs. Palavrić had two suggestions. The first is the proposal to declare ourselves individually on the conclusions and it has not passed in Parliament. And there is a proposal by Mrs Palavrić which actually represents an amendment to point 8. She suggests that point 8. reads completely different from the current text and I to you, put it to a vote please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11069	I just got the amendment, I didn't have one. Please nice, here we have Sead Palavrić proposing the 8th point, instead of the current point 8. The proposal for a conclusion under point 9 proposes a new text - In order to overcome the problem in the economic social area covered by the decision of the Human Rights House for BiH, the Council of Ministers is hereby mandated to ensure the implementation of all decisions by the House of Human Rights in the Economic Area, in co-operation with the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Republic of Srspka and Brcko District. Who's in favour of supporting this amendment? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11070	That's instead of point eight, the existing one, so that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11071	Let's just finish the vote, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11072	Instead of point 8 being this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11073	It also covers the 8th so far does not rule it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11074	Dear colleagues, we have come to the conclusion that these conclusions are stated in the package. The adoption of such a conclusion by automated means that there is no individual statement in any of the conclusions of this 8. 9. or I don't know how much, which doesn't mean that Mrs Palavrić and anyone else can't suggest an additional 10.11.12. etc. a conclusion that we will particularly plead upon. But these conclusions, these eight conclusions are voted in the package, because that's how we voted them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11075	Thank you. You see, of course I follow logic. Please, stop slowly, I can't understand this anxiety, like someone's trying to cheat here right now. Give us a minute to trust each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11076	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11077	I'm begging you, I really didn't throw it away to anyone. Let me run the session. So we had a statement on whether we were going individually. It didn't pass. We're going in a package, so we are, this is the third session where we disagree with what we talked about. So now we're going to a plea. That's why I put it on, and then Šefik reacted. I think Mr. Novaković is right. We're going for a plea. What fate will be, as anyone will vote, it is now irrelevant. So the second round of voting is the vote on the conclusions in the package. You can have the word. It's not a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11078	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any dispute here. So the unquestionable thing is that this parliament has recently adopted, i.e. rejected Mrs Palavrić's proposal to plead individually on points 1 to 10, how many there are 26 here in this document. And we will plead on the document in the package. And that's also an undeniable thing. What Mrs Palavrić insists on, in my opinion with full right, refers to what the package will look like and she has the right to do so as an MP. She asks that before we make a statement about it as a package, change point 8 in the way she proposes and I ask you to put it to a vote. This is not so, this is not what Mr. Novaković was talking about, this is a business procedure that needs to be implemented. Therefore, I ask you to put the amendment at point 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11079	I thank my colleague, Šefik. Please be nice, so we have to finish this job. If an amendment is allowed, each person may make an amendment at any point. There is no amendment, we have a report from the Commission today and we need to make a statement about it. So it either passes, or it doesn't. We're re-entering a fundamental debate. So that's what we need to be aware of. And that's why we pleaded. If there was a possibility, if the proposal had passed individually, then it would have gone from the conclusion and the method of elimination to some text. Since that hasn't passed, we're going to make a statement, I don't mind asking for a special conclusion, so let's say that in such a way, if we make a collective statement about this proposal, and let's say afterwards about the proposal by Seade Palavrić. But let us now vote on the Opinion of Conclusions. Don't turn it off, please. Come on. It's not like anyone, please. So let me run a session. Hello.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11080	Give me your word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11081	Well, you'll get your word if you want as much as you want, but come on, let me run a session. We've entered the voting procedure and there's no debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11082	She didn't go out for a pay phone and I filed an amendment before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11083	Please. Well, you filed, what difference does it make when we declared that there was no individual, no amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11084	It's not about the amandman to the pay phone. It's not about the individual. It's about the package. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11085	No, not individually. Please, don't be nervous. I'm voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11086	Can I just have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11087	Yes, you can. Let's finish the vote. Here you go. Come on. Vote against, for, however anyone wants to vote, let's get out of business.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11088	Mr. Chairman, be careful, I mean, there's no need, really you have a habit of very often transferring someone to be nervous. I have a feeling you're a little nervous. There's no need for any anxiety. What you're proposing, what you're proposing, Mr. Chairman, which you insist on, would look about like this situation -- that when we vote for it, for example. about the law, saying don't vote now on the amendments, let's vote on the law we have, so when we make a statement about it, then we'll decide whether to vote on the amendments or not to vote on amendments to the law. You're proposing this situation. I mean, you must be aware that this situation is completely unacceptable and please give a nice application of the Rules of Procedure and do as the Rules of Procedure requires of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11089	Wait a minute. I thank my colleague Džaferović. This isn't the law. So this is the Commission's report that we'll accept, please, don't do me, I guess I've been here the same 5 years as you. No need, as colleagues, we respect each other. So this isn't an amendment phase. I don't mind, you saw that I had raised the green card to vote for this. I'll support it if it's a special conclusion. But let's finish the voting procedure on the package, because that's what we agreed. So that's all I'm talking about. So no matter what my personal feelings are about this. And I guess the way I wanted to vote, I said enough what I thought about it, but we need to get out of this business. If all these other conclusions are important and good and improve the situation, I'm happy. Not at all, there's no need for us to sharpen the situation, or for us to deal with some policy about this. But let's get the job done. He was looking for Dr. Živković's word, so Ljiljana. But to bring this to an end. I think we're exhausted at this debate and now we're just showing off.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11090	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really and the party to which I belong want to adopt these conclusions today and I don't see any reason why we should have something over our knees to break, especially if I think Mrs Seada Palavrić is a little late with her 28 amendments and I think it was correct for these amendments to be offered by her on the commission and for that commission to consider these amendments and then for the Commission's report to be quite special that, as far as I understand it, I was right now beside him, there was no objection that what Mrs Seada Palavrić is proposing here in this way. So I would suggest that the chairman, if you have a little patience and all of us here together should have to give the chairman's commission five minutes to see if this can be put into the current report and then vote on these conclusions and to complete the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11091	Please. Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go. Wait a minute. We'll find a solution. There's no solution. Well, they can't be a commission, they can't be a full commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11092	The Honorable Chairman of this idea by Mr. Živković was good, but she was good enough to come before our statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11093	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11094	We have a situation here that we said about the conclusions of the commission that we received directly, we found them on the table when we came to the session to plead in the package. So that's these conclusions. And logically, it would be a sequence of things, so we would adopt a package of conclusions, because we have to have first conclusions and then vote to change what we already have. Now we have a change of heart that we haven't adopted yet. Therefore, our position is therefore to make a statement, we have declared that the vote is in the package, to plead, and then there is a statement on the amendments of counterpart Palavrić. He is right, Mr. Živković, why the commission did not go with the solutions and why we wait 45 days to formulate the conclusions that are prescribed that within 3 months, the quarterly report is submitted at the latest, to take measures for agriculture, and we have drawn that, we will go out for 3 months. We didn't even make it to the plant, and the harvest did. It's a question of what we're going to reap. That's why our proposal is to make a statement now, so as agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11095	Thank you. There are, of course, two suggestions, if I could just ask Mrs. Seada Palavrić for a short while to see how we're going to do it. So we can finish home will decide. We can end the vote, so the problem is we've just entered the plea procedure in business. And my relationship to the conclusion is positive, but we've entered the voting procedure. Let's finish the vote. I don't mind 29 that this particular conclusion of Seada is defined and that we make a statement about it, but that we adopt what the Commission has done. There is another way if the rest of us agree to take a break for the Commission to sit down, complete the Commission for 15 minutes and see if it can compromise this in point 8. So that possibility exists. Come on, let's not replicate it, let's do it. Here you go. Here's a replica of Sead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11096	Let me inform you that at the last House session, I reacted to point 8. to the same nain that I have now suggested. I expected the Commission to consider my reaction. She didn't take it into consideration, nor did she deliver a decision to the House. Here's what we believe on the cobwebs. So let's not be serious. The Commission should have taken into account what I was saying about this speaker.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11097	Please, Koomisi knows how it works. The Commission submitted a report. You can turn him down. 'Cause whoever's talking like, no, no, but don't tell the Commission. The Commission has been working, if any, on the Commission to submit reports to this House. The home may have a positive and negative report according to the Commission's position. Yeah. Here you go. Dr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11098	Let me say, the Commission has met three times. So the conclusions you got were unanimously accepted. There have been other proposals in the last session that are not included in these conclusions, but the Commission has managed some evaluations, evaluations, etc. what he can accept and what he can't accept. So she went into some sort of dimension and considered what was possible to go through or not. But as for Mrs. Palavrić's proposal, as far as I'm concerned, I accept. Here's Mr. Kragulj accepts, probably Mrs. Leho, let's not take a break. We accept this proposal, the truth probably comes a little bit into conflict with the Rules of Procedure, but please let us resolve this issue and accept this and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11099	I thank Petar. Does the Commission agree to supplement the report? Let's not take a break. We need to get out of this, I'm sorry. We can make a decision like Dom. Does Dom agree, do we agree with this proposal first? Don't make me decide to break the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Novaković. Let's finish the vote. Okay. Here you go, Novaković. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11100	Here I want to say, as a member of the Commission, that I disagree. So I disagree as a member of the Commission because it is for several reasons. First because there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure and there would still be injury if we adopted it. And the second is because, as far as I understand it, there's one and the other member eight left. Or the Commission is replacing them. I therefore disagree that the replacement of a member from a proposal adopted unanimously with someone who will not be unanimously adopted. And of course it's a matter of the chairman and the College having a session, but I think we went the wrong way and we shouldn't have hurt the Rules of Procedure. The moment we enter the voting procedure, we are obliged to complete the vote, it is business and that we vote on everything means what it is. So to vote on the Commission's report, we are then voting on new proposals that come from any of the MPs here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11101	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Since I am responsible for holding a session and applying the Rules of Procedure, I request that we make a statement on the Commission's Report. Who's in favor of accepting what we got on the table? Who's in favour of accepting the Commission's report? Who's against it? Who's being held back? So of the 39 present for was 22, versus 12, abstention 5.. I konstatuj that the Commission's report has been accepted. We're going to an entity. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? We also have an entity majority. 10 from the Federation, Republika Srpska 11. I'm sorry, 11, 11. 11 from the Federation, 11 from Republika Srpska. I find that we have accepted the Commission's report. Please, nice. Seada suggested, so this could be a conclusion, if Sead insists, but we are now voting on the Commission report to finish this job. This is an amendment, not a conclusion. No, no, we can't right now, it can be. You can't Sejo this is over. We, in this way, please, have done the job of the 9th point this way. Let me run the session, don't. We're making a political atmosphere about unnecessary things. Here you go. Come on. We're done. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11102	I voted on the condition that we also accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11103	For the first time, a procedure is introduced into this home that is absolutely unacceptable. What does that mean, the Commission report that cannot be changed? What does this mean that no member of the Commission can be put under criticism and change and improve the text? It's the first time we've done it. Who needed a simple method like this, a way to adopt this document, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11104	That's how we voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11105	For the first time in this document, one practice is introduced, and that means you have a document to take or leave. So there is no way to improve the text that the Commission has given. What's that supposed to mean? I have two amendments to this text that improve the text, I have no opportunity to intervene. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11106	I'm asking you just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11107	So for the first time, a practice is introduced that has passed in this House against both procedures and against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it's not a trend or something. So I'm looking for Mr. Chairman of this document that we adopted, I have amendments to this document. I have amendments to the adopted document. Is it possible to submit to the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11108	I can't create you to understand, you've been here with me for a long time, you have a Rules of Procedure and I can't absolutely understand. We said there was no single vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11109	We couldn't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11110	How you didn't when you voted. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11111	No, I'm sorry. The Commission's report is binding, it is a proposal for conclusions, it is not a simple report by the Commission of people. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11112	Dr. Avdić, there's no need for this kind of temperature around this thing. We have declared that we are not about the individual vote on conclusions. So we pleaded and accepted the conclusions by the majority and the entity majority. I don't know what else we want right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11113	I'm looking for amendments to the adopted document that I'm delivering to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11114	There are no amendments. We adopted the Commission's report because this home was formed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11115	I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11116	Just a little bit, please. This home has formed a Commission to draw conclusions. Those conclusions can be rejected, we can accept. And I'm pleased that we've accepted the conclusions. I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11117	Business intervention, if I may, Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11119	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11120	Let us only be patient to listen. Everything has to be business. I'm here so the Rules of Procedure won't be broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11121	Dear colleagues, MPs, if we took a stenogram in the last 15 minutes of all that the chairman here said for this speaker by leading this session, it would be quite clear that what he's saying now is completely contrary to what he's been saying in the last 15 minutes when it comes to how Mrs Palavrić is acting. 33 When I went out for a pay phone here and insisted on applying the amendment procedure to Mrs Palavrić's proposal and before the final statement was cleared with her amendment, then I was told that her proposal would be put to the vote after the vote, or did not vote on a complete document. And when it is done so, then it departs from what has been said before, so it is said that we adopted the document and its amendment is unambiguous. Take a stenogram and look at it, and you'll see it come that way. Mr. Špirić, I have no intention of arguing with you about this pay phone, nor do I intend to go into your word, nor do I put the microphone in front of you, you are the chairman, all of it belongs to you, but I have every right and responsibility to say that as far as I'm concerned as the vice-president is currently in this, in this situation, decision, because you have violated the procedure of making that decision has not been made. I am prepared to defend this in the Constitutional Court if necessary, but as far as I'm concerned, the decision has not been made. And what you're trying to do, this great equilibrist, is that you can tell someone else, and you can't tell people who have been here for many years in Parliament and who have a serious intention to work in this House. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11122	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of the House who has been invited to interpret, whether the debate on this point is over or not and whether we have done it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or not. I have no reason to disabling anyone. I have no reason to break the Rules of Procedure, nor will I. I don't want to go into any proposals, I want to do business. And I said what was my personal opinion on the proposal and I'm asking the secretary to give an interpretation. And if anyone's going to go to the Constitution, and I've used my right three times to the Constitutional Court and I still have no answer. All possibilities need to be exploited. Well, I guess we're in a democratic state. Why the anger? I don't belong to anyone. Here you go. Serquetor to give an interpretation of whether or not it's over. What was who thinking and thinking?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11123	Dear Members of the House College seem to be such an unpleasant situation to me, but I will give my opinion about voting on this item of the agenda. I believe that the agenda item ends with a vote on conclusions. The amendments to the conclusions mean an amendment to the existing conclusions that exist in the Commission's Report. And if new amendments were to be voted on, the new proposals that would derivate these Commission conclusions would then give the House two different conclusions on the same thing. It's up to the College of the House to decide how to proceed. If there are new proposals that don't touch the essence of these conclusions, which are no different from those adopted in the essential paragraphs, they're not the opposite of each other, I think they might vote on it. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11124	Thank you. Here you go. Wait a minute. Here you go. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11125	I thank the chairman. Here, after the House Secretary's intervention, I believe that the amendment tabled by MP Palavrić is not contrary to the content of the conclusions we adopted, but complements them and creates new circumstances, and we also had the Commission's willingness to accept this amendment and I think it would be wise for us all to be together, not in such a hurry, but to make these conclusions even better. And that should be, I know the procedure, we'll always be able to get out in the process, if we don't want to do the thing better. And what's next, Mr. Spasojević? Call the pay phone and ask. Here I am, out to offer something. I think this amendment should have been accepted because it does not exclude the existing amendment 8 but extends it. And what was in the conclusion remains. The content of this existing amendment is not brought into question by its amendment, but extends to other areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to other important issues. If it bothers anyone, it's another thing. But it does not in any way question the conclusion that the Commission has already established and which we have supported. And I suggest we complete the conclusions, because new circumstances have been created. That's what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11126	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. I'm asking you to bring this in if possible. We can argue for a long time now, and then Dr. Kunić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11127	Dear colleagues, I really don't know why this kind of dish, why do I say, why did I vote for these, a proposal for these conclusions? Because none of this, the ministry will give us an answer that it's not in their competence from a to a to a. It's a question I asked about pensioners, so in this house you said it wasn't the authority of this House or the government of the Council of Ministers. Agriculture is not in charge, and here it's just being suggested, please just suggest to the Council of Ministers and I expect the answer that they couldn't encourage anything, that it's a matter of those there and over. So I know the answer. The answer will be, either there's no answer, or it's not in their jurisdiction, and that's why these conclusions here don't really irritate me as much as you've shown this irritation here right now. The other thing, I must say now, just a little bit, just a little bit, please, I would just like to say now that Mr. Špirić said that after this we can go to the amendment and that's why I accepted that we will go to the amendment as a supplement. That's how you told me, Mr. Špirić, and I think this proposal now that Raguž said is only possible for us to come out of this as something that's here in that food made a series of laps that we could have prevented. 35 Therefore I said Article 8, please be careful, it is a matter of the Constitutional Court, not of the Council of Ministers. So if it is said that we believe that it should be extended to the state level, it should be expanded, because then we will make the same move, and in the Constitutional Court we will get that same dispute. Therefore, Mr Špirić, you have really said that after these amendments have been adopted, and what the members of the Commission, except one, have accepted this as an extension of this attitude 8, I think we can get out of this, but I am telling you that there will be answers that this is not a competent government at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11128	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. Please try to find a way out. So this conclusion has been adopted. This may be special, 8:9.10 does not matter, that there is no amendment, because it opens up the possibility for others to make amendments. We will learn, I know what we are in destruction, so if Sead Palavrić writes here as a special conclusion, I am in favour of voting it as a special conclusion, because we have come to the conclusion of the Commission. And I think we did a good job. If the MP insists that this be as a new conclusion, please, I have nothing against it, but don't make it out of ourselves, since we made a statement once, then another time. The MP's offering a conclusion. I'm obliged to put it to a vote, as it has been until now. But I beg that conclusion therefore to be defined as a special conclusion. So he's defined. Is there a need to read it? But it's not an amendment. It's a conclusion. There's just a misunderstanding of business. So it's a new conclusion, not an amendment to the conclusion. Yeah. Who is therefore in favour of accepting a new conclusion – In order to overcome the economic social area covered by the human rights decisions of the Human Rights House for BiH, the Council of Ministers is tasked in co-operation with the government of the Federation of BiH and RS and the Brcko District to urgently examine the implementation of all decisions of the House of Human Rights in the Economic Social Area. Who's in? Now, this is a new conclusion. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So, ladies and gentlemen of 39 present 30 for, against 3.6 abstentions. Now, this is a final vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, I have no intention of ever hurting the Rules of Procedure. We have therefore made clear on the views, the conclusions of the Commission and put it to the vote. If there were 10 conclusions about all of us, we could be heard individually. But it wouldn't be about the amendments. Thank you. 36 Let's go to, this is the 8th point, this becomes the 9th point, and the 10th point, I apologize. Ad.10. Report on the work of the BiH State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2003 under Article 10. The law on transmission and the regulator and the operator of the electricity system in BiH, the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, is required to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly for each calendar year on the work of the Commission. You've received a report from the State Regulatory Commission. There are both directors and his deputies. I warmly welcome them and thank you for having responded to this session. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone to report on the report you received, which is explicit, decadent. Who's calling for a hearing? Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11129	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would, I guess, be in a bit of a hurry, I think we should say a word and talk about a very important report like this. So first of all, I express my satisfaction that the commission has submitted it and I have to say personally I like the way they've informed us about their work, so there are unnecessary findings and unnecessary formulations that it simply enables a man with some modest knowledge from this area to understand certain things. We will, of course, support the report as soon as I want to present some of our dilemmas here, so I'm talking about the Party Club for BiH. We are concerned by this finding that the Commission has not been officially registered yet, if something has not changed in the meantime compared to the moment when the report is drawn up, and even more is concerned about an explanation that is likely to be true. Therefore, the competent ministry, the Commission is not registered because the competent ministry did not adopt the rules for registration of legal persons, and then, following representatives of state structures, pointed to the need for a faster adoption of the amendment of this law. So it's a little unclear whether there are no regulations that allow registration, or whether the existing laws have some dilemmas, so I'd like to ask the report applicants to tell us exactly what it's about. Because the question arises, of course, and I may be wrong, if the Commission has been given certain public powers in the name of the State to do certain things not registered, regardless of all what has been done and the statutes and regulations on the internal organisation, etc., but if it does not have the capacity of the registered organisation and structure, whether it can carry out and charge documents in the sense of issuing these public documents, etc. So there's a dilemma opening. I hope I'm wrong to be denied, but I felt I needed to point out that after all. The next thing we know about the club is these operating costs in terms of renting space, flats, etc. I'm not opening this because the Commission is in Tuzla. The costs would likely be both in Sarajevo and Banja Luka and Mostar, etc. That's what the debate was about, and that thing is over. I'm opening this for another question. I'm on several occasions, i.e. the club, etc. We tried to open up the issue of state property, try to initiate an arrangement of that category of property that was completely unsettled. This 37 situation puts us in a position for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pay non-stop for the accommodation of state institutions in state property. He puts people in state apartments and pays, etc. It's simply because of an unregulated area when it comes to state property. Because the state as a title holder would define what state property is the principles of use, etc. We would have been far better off in the safiance aspect. I know examples where cities, municipalities live or social policy of water based on income from state assets such as apartments, spaces, etc., and we constantly pay ourselves something, beat up, transfer, etc. And what's most important to us and what concerns us, and this morning it's confirmed, unfortunately we didn't talk today about this session we had with the Deputy High Representative where it's explicitly said if this isn't done, there's no such thing. The people of the Commission need to know what this is about, because their report says there is a stalemate, a stalemate in very important matters. So a stalemate in the establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's transmission company and a stalemate in establishing an independent system operator. So why? There's a double explanation here again, so I'm in a bit of a dilemma. There's no law, and the existing give it a chance to remove it, but it's not respected. So this Parliament should, we suggest, of course, Mr. Chairman's statement, but here I will say, give support to this report, too, but ask the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments to in a more serious way, except for the declarative support of this commission's work, which is indicated in the report to remove this obstacle and that reforms in this area really get at a pace and acceleration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11130	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, according to Article 10, we don't adopt the report, we accept knowledge, and that's why we're grateful. Yeah, yeah. No, no, it's quite all right. It's consistent with the debate you've been having. Who's next to the word? Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11131	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs and MPs, I would like to say a few words in this report. I mean, I totally agree with what Mr. Belkić put out and I wouldn't repeat it, and I meant something to say, so I'm out. The National Regulatory Commission has started, we all know it almost works, that it hasn't had a great deal of time in front of it, and what we got in the report says that people have tried to do it with honor and to do it. What they have presented as shortcomings in the report is probably what is holding them back now to do even better and support this parliament will probably have in its work. However, I suggest this practical, we, in fact, do not have enough parameters in these reports to say, at the very least, what might most vulgarly be said in this context, that we are extremising, so let's say, one commission, one organ, etc. He was supposed to do it as planned, by law, or by something, that, that, in that time and time, and she did it, she didn't do it and it wasn't satisfactory or satisfying. I therefore propose that such bodies that report to this Parliament also give comparisons to what was planned, what the law required, and why, and why it was not done and why it was not done. There are perhaps objective circumstances that could not be done, and this 38 parliament should be involved to help them in the work. This is one of my remarks on this report, but I think in a short time it is quite well done and acceptable by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11132	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Martin Raguž, vice president, picked up the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11133	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, here's what I want to say to the members of this committee. I think it's good to have a report. We had a rather heated debate here when it was a confirmation of the appointment, or a slowdown, so a new appointment, and it is good that, although Parliament does not have direct jurisdiction in terms of adopting such a report, I think, given the importance of the problem, it is good to consider this report and get it. In this regard, I welcome, therefore, the coming of this report, but I also want to point out that Article 4. A law defining what a State Regulatory Commission is, i.e. an Electricity Agency, which is given a truly high level of competence to this agency, or to the Commission. I will remind you here in Article 4(2) only of some, I will not take up your time, so (a) says issue, changes in suspension, suspension and follow-up of compliance with electricity licenses, approval of surveillance and tariffs, tariff methodologies for transmission and regulation and auxiliary services. Next issue of licences, monitoring the implementation of conditions related to international trade in electricity. Establishing monitoring and implementation of rules related to fair and non-discriminatory access by third parties to the transmission network, etc. There are over 20 of these very important tasks. I think that this is how one report should have your assessment of the gentleman to the extent that you have these legal powers that the law has given you in which you can achieve them and what dynamics you will achieve, and if there is an obstacle to their achievement by your side, then this report would be complete and justifying the purpose of submitting them to this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11134	Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first report, and it's coming from the department. Here you are from the directorate Mirsad Salkić, a member of the Commission, is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11135	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I won't take your time, but I think it's only worth one explanation. It's a question of registration. This is all another matter and future work and rounding up the entire system. You know that the Transfer Act, regulator and system operator was adopted in April 2002. In line with, if I am not mistaken, Article 4 is the Council of Ministers in June 2002. For 39 years, it has made a decision to assign, under allegations, to state the status of a legal person to this commission. After that, a Law on registration of institutions created at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in 11 months 2002. So, formally, we've acquired legal personality status and before the adoption of the Registration Act. In the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons, the institutions established earlier are obliged to apply for registration. We filed it. However, as a result of the amendment of the Council of Ministers' Law to the power of ministries of civil affairs and communication to the Ministry, if I am not wrong about the justice of the adoption of sublegal acts, there remains gaps in confirmation. But we interpret, regardless of what we have applied for registration, regardless of what we expect to be registered soon, in accordance with the law that we have the property of a legal person and that all the competences which are our laws and responsibilities and competences are normal that we can carry out and formal registration from it seems to me that it was told by the Ministry of Justice after the relevant regulations have been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11136	I thank my colleague Salkić. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Directorate of the Regulatory Commission for Electricity for the report that has been delivered to Parliament, in full compliance with the provisions of point 10 of Article 4 of this Regulation. The law on the transfer of the regulator and the power system operator to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank my colleagues who have discussed and I think the future report will cover these segments that my colleagues have pointed to, and that concludes the 10th point of the agenda. Moving to the 11th point of the Ad.11 agenda. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Additional Protocol of the Convention against Doping and (b) Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I hereby conclude the debate and propose that we ratify this, vote together under a) and b) if there is no one to discuss. Who's in favor of giving consent to ratification? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the additional protocol on the Doping Convention and the Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, a little patience, we're moving to 12 points of the agenda. May I have your patience, please? 40 We move to the 12th point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. The formation of an investigative commission to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce, Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the proposed Club of MPs of the HDZ-de-Christians was forwarded to you on 5 February this year. As you have seen from the material, a description has been proposed to the competent commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11137	I welcome all present. The HDZ-de-Christian club suggested one such conclusion. I would only complete point 1 and I would suggest members of the investigative committee to consult with the parties that are conceived in this House I propose Miloš Jovanović, Hazim Felić and Filip Andrić to this investigative commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11138	Thank you. First we'll make a decision on forming a commission, and I agree, it's a good thing you've dictated names. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting. Who's in favor of forming this investigation committee? Who's against it? Abstained? So, please, from 32 present to 26, versus 3, abstention 2. We have a majority and an entity majority. I find that we have come to the conclusion that we are forming a commission. Mr Zorić has also proposed members of the commission. It is Miloš Jovanović, Filip Andrić and Azim Felić. Who's in favor of accepting a commission in this system? Who's against it? Abstained? So of 32 MPs, 25 for, against 3, 4 abstentions. We have the majority and the entity. I understand that we have elected members of this commission, composed of Jovanović, Andrić and Felić. I wish them successful work. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. That's 41 Ad.13. Information from the Council of Ministers on the degree of implementation of the adopted programme with special reference to the brakes of the implementation of this programme as well as reforms in this country I must be honest that in the future when the proposings define the agenda point that they really need to be defined as being on the face of this Parliament. I have no right to amend any proposal therefore and I always put to the vote what the MPs are proposing. But this is what I mean by end-of-lifes, etc. It will be very difficult to conduct a debate, but here we are in the situation we are. We've informed the Council of Ministers. Here I am pleased to find that there is the director of the Centre for European Integration, Mr Topcagic, the Directorate for European Integration. Can you do that? Is that an assignment? And the chairman, I'm sorry, because I don't see President Terzić, so we have to take a break if we're waiting for him unless the proposer of the agenda won't open the debate. Here you go. Just a little bit, please. Here's Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11139	On a water shop in Holliday we've really had a slap that we're brakers. That's what I'm saying. Here I am today saying that we here have had the opportunity to see how Parliament works and how it adopts laws. The second thing, I think it would be good to bring out what was heard in the OHR today. Here comes the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think we'll get that information too, and only after that can we talk about it. I speak for one simple reason why I know this House has no ambition and that it is stopping. However, since almost all professionals are in this House, as much material as this House comes in is capable and ready to work seven days a week and a half 24 hours if that is the case. I think that in talks with a large number of parliamentarians, there has been no interest and never this parliament, at least in this time that I am present was not a braker in the realization of these ideas. A team before the conclusions of this Parliament that entering the EU are imperative for us and that we have only asked to try to respect the procedures in certain things. I think it would be good if Mr. Špirić could say what was in the OHR today, and here comes Mr. Terzić, and then based on this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11140	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. I must say that this point, we had a conversation yesterday as a College, an extended college with President Terzić, concluded that we would once a month inform Parliament and I think it is a quality conclusion. The way we may sometimes politicise things in Parliament may not be a good ally of what we should do when it comes to our path to the EU. I appreciate the fact that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has responded to the agenda as well. We had a good conversation today with Deputy High Representative Ambassador Hayes and his associates. Today, I realized this meeting that we are all aware of what needs to be done in order to speed up our path to the EU and Euro-Atlantic integration 42. It was not a meeting where the culprits and the responsibilities were determined, but it showed the full readiness of the international institutions of Ambassador Hejs and the representatives of the authorities and the Council of Ministers and Parliament that all of what is within their jurisdiction would be done in order to make possible fatigue that may sometimes, when seen on the side, feel eliminated and that we would really meet the necessary conditions and thus make the satisfaction of the citizens of the country we represent. And I don't think it's a good idea that when we come from any meeting, we should put an end to the agenda for convincing about what we talked about. I take meetings as a place where we assume the obligations of those that have been defined by law. I am pleased that Parliament is overcoming the mood and the political consensus that we will do everything that is up to us that when legal projects come into parliamentary procedure, we will respond without delay to the adoption of these legal projects. Therefore, I would not like today to see the meetings I appreciate benefiting, usefully, making any policy, and in particular politics and here the chairman of the Council of Ministers will brief us. Although I must remind you that we dedicated the plenary session of both homes only 7-8 days ago to what we will discuss with the chairman again today. But here's the opportunity to inform us what was done in the meantime and what of course he expects the Council of Ministers, entity governments and all levels of government to speed up this process. Please, President Terzić, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11141	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the information has come to me since we have a Council of Ministers meeting that you requested a report on the realization of these conclusions. As far as I'm concerned, you need a report of what was in the OHR. I must admit that anyone who today in my discussion at OHR has concluded that I am accusing Parliament of anything, let alone the braking of reforms, etc. It's not well-intentioned and it only works out of personal interest. I have no idea that I have such a relationship with this home or the House of Peoples, and I was just saying that we have noticed in a year how far we are at our posts that the ministers and the Council of Ministers do not have enough activity towards Parliament, according to the commissions. Ministers believe they finish their job when the law is passed on to the Council of Ministers, and in fact they only have the job of passing the law in such a text and being adopted at Parliament. And I was just talking about me as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and my ministers having to contribute to Parliament's leadership's desire to become a source of political authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, simply if you have received such information, I say that it is malicious and untrue. But here's when I came to say that at each meeting of the Council of Ministers, we have determined that the first item of the agenda will be – the realization of this programme, the programme that you have also supported after various discussions at the plenary session. The problem with this programme is, in principle, for me that neither the OHR nor the European Commission treats it as their programme. I understand why OHR's doing this, because he wasn't involved in everything in this business. However, the European Commission and I have made it clear to both the ambassador and the members, its co-workers that it is inadmissible that two months after the adoption of this programme at the Council of Ministers and Procedures and through the Presidency and 43 Parliamentary Assembly, they say nothing about this package, but express certain reservations as to whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will be able to meet all the conditions resulting from the physibilities of the study, etc. I think we're gonna get that back to normal by next week. This is the program on which everyone takes the exam. Both the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community. An examination of whether we are all together ready to move Bosnia and Herzegovina into the process of Stabilisation and Association negotiations in the middle of the year. In summary, this report has not yet been to the Council of Ministers. Only now do we have to go, and I also told the Home leadership that it is simply impossible to follow the pace from the beginning of the Council of Ministers' constitution we have meetings on Thursdays, which we set out in our Rules of Procedure. However, here in the last few months it has been repeatedly repeated that at the same time as the Council of Ministers' session and the House of Representatives and I think that it is actually creating huge problems for us, and first and foremost because it causes problems in communication, so the question is whether the Council of Ministers, whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers respects this House or does not respect it. I don't mind if we change our timing. Let's say we had a Tuesday, but then please don't schedule those sessions on Tuesdays. Of this program, 13 dots are absolutely fulfilled and completed, 18 are partially filled, and 12 are not fulfilled. It's so technologically orderly. I'm not going to tell you today who the brakes are because I haven't established them either. We still need to go to the Council of Ministers today to have an open debate about who is holding these processes back. It is clear to you that in January of the month, after all, it is a holiday, a month of holidays, that there have also been reduced activities of the Council of Ministers. I think we're slowly catching on and what I want to tell you, it's that no matter how anyone has a daily political relationship to this package of measures, this package of measures will be met and we will start negotiations on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement by the end of the year. So I'm not leaving any reserves on whether this program will be fulfilled or not. But I also expect us to create an ambience in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that it is not more important to challenge the possibility of this happening, but one, an affirmative approach to the realisation of this programme. If you want me to, I have here exactly what's being filled with this program, if you'd like me to introduce you to it taxively. We're gonna need some time and patience. Chairman, if not I would suggest we leave it to the Council of Ministers, however, to analyse the results of the implementation of this programme so far and to leave us with space to correct. I don't have any reserves, and believe me, I absolutely will, I don't think it can be realized otherwise if we're not ready to say in the head what the people say who's responsible for something that isn't being implemented from this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11142	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the President of the Council of Ministers for coming to this session and for further explaining things to us and the reasons why we invited him here and I want to say behind this pay phone what we said to the 44 SNSD that we are for Europe and that we will not obstruct any of our actions to Europe. But I also want to say that we have reasonable reserves and we said that when that plan was here at the Plenary Session, and I'm also pointing it out now. It's two important relationships. The first funding for the establishment of 24 institutions has not been presented to us here. We still haven't received the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is why we don't even know if these funds will be provided and I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us and answer that question once and for all. Under 2. The time that I do not have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we do not have time and we know that we are set by dates, I wonder if the political consensus has been passed between parties, and I will tell you that I also have the impression that it is not because of everything that is happening in Republika Srpska, because of everything that is happening in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and because of everything that is happening at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina where the Council of Ministers and part of the assembly majority in this parliament are being accused of each other. And we have also witnessed yesterday's meeting of the So-Ambassy Commission where we have discussed for 5 hours the laws that have been agreed on for two and a half years and where the representatives of the positions in this Parliament have given amendments to the laws that have already been passed through the Council of Ministers and their ministers. And then it is said that this parliament is obstructing. No, I don't. It obstructs those who hold the majority in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11144	I thank Dr. Živković. Who's next to the word? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11145	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the claims made by Mr. Chairman are adequate to the claims made on the Water Shop 5.2 at Holidej Inny, chaired by Mr. Hejs and Mr. Henfis, where they were present from the international community, from the IMF, the International Bank, the European Bank, etc. etc. I don't know what language someone should say and how to say that someone normal can't see, hear and feel who's being pushed as a particular culprit and a certain brake of certain reform laws and reform laws in this country. There are out of 50 or 100 present, including a large number of these parliamentarians, who all shot their heads off when we concluded together that it was this parliament. This is said at the same time today in the OHR where even the chairman of this assembly who does not vote for certain reform laws has been appointed. If that's the case, if that's the case, then we have to, so here's no attack on Mr. Chairman, then we have to ask ourselves what we're doing here. If that's the case? Then really this parliament deserves another set-up and debate at other levels and fully agrees with Mr. Živković. First, when we talk about a certain way in this House, if certain brakes on the passage of certain laws are already visible, they are obstructed, if they can say so, then 45 in a certain procedure, they are obstructed by the position. If so, then I accept that Mr. Prime Minister is right and say gentlemen I feel the need to speak of my trust first. Because that's what he said at the Water Shop in Holiday Inny. It's just that while we still have time, so this isn't malicious and someone shouldn't take this on purpose, but as long as we have time, and we've spent, I've been telling you for two months. Because you and February can all say goodbye. So we have March, April, May, in June, we should be doing that big program that we brought in and that big tail from the action plan and the program to do, to do, and see what else. As far as I've seen from the material set up by Mom in OHR, March 25th, or February is set to budget. We don't have it on the pier. Itd. etc. And who's to blame? Well, then it is my job to say together here, if it is Parliament's fault to take the blame, if it is some... but it is inappropriate for me to have one executive body of this Parliament send a ball to this Parliament in a certain way in such public places. If this Parliament accepts it, it accepts the right qualification given by the chairman of the Council. Then there's nothing wrong with this House or with us. It was my initiative to discuss this information today, to tell us where we are in the position of achieving the programme that we have accepted, where we are here in the position of realising the action plan and where we are in the position at the end of when we add the results that we will be declared those who have stopped or who have not allowed us to reach the goal that has been outlined, and it is to be finalised in June of the month. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11146	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Chairman, be my guest. Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11147	Okay, this is a whole other question right now. It is true that the Water Shop in Holliday Inny was related to the reform of the energy sector. And it is true that I am here talking about reforming the energy sector precisely and clearly said that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina through commission work that delegates have massacred the law, a law that, as Moranjkić said, has been in line for two years. We've had huge resistances of electricity to go into this reform at all. $225 million stands out of the World Bank of this Agreement Power 3 and clearly I was talking about the MPs, in that case the House of Peoples, here's how much I hear and this house is not behind the House of Peoples, and here a number of amendments have happened to be accepted no matter what the Council of Ministers thinks. That MPs should in principle, if they have on one regulation as many amendments as the House of Peoples had that their relationship with the government should not be expressed through these amendments, but through a vote of confidence to the government, because if the law comes with 70 members, and you have 70 amendments, then something is wrong with the Council of Ministers. And that's where I was talking, and Mr. Moranjkić knows it well. Budget, you know very well the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions is being charged with 95% of the entity transfer. It is simply impossible to form a budget until you have a clear position as many entity budgets transfer to the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. Republika Srpska adopted by the new year. You are witnessing that Parliament, both homes of the Federation Parliament, has just adopted 46 drafts. I expect that the Federation government will quickly turn the draft into a proposal and that the adoption procedure in the federal parliament will be completed by the end of February. We have an indicator from the Federation Budget Draft, we already have a prepared package. But we can't, and we can't put him in the process until we have a clear position on how much the federal government is going to transfer, because there may be some changes. And when it comes to funding newly formed institutions and actually financial support for the implementation of this plan, I must openly say that we do not have financial support to achieve this plan. But he would be too pleased if only the finances in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the brakes of reform. We need to get the first political support for the realisation of this plan, and the finances will be dealt with on the way. So there are promises also made by representatives of the international community that we will get a number of funds for newly formed institutions. And what I want, and what I suppose makes sense, means from newly formed state institutions, they only make sense if in that part of the law, both people and obligations are transferred from entity levels. So, let's say, at the indirect tax administration, if we create a single customs duty, a single customs duty is created by two existing administrations, actually three existing administrations of entity and Brcko District. We have signed an agreement with the entities that we will sign a special transfer protocol for every administrative organization we form and based on this programme. So one man, for him, is transferred so much money, so much material cost and so much for the work of the administration. But for that, it is necessary to first form into a position to sign these separate transfer agreements. We'll have problems, but here's the end of your pleasure. It should be that you don't have a problem finding the money. We'll have, we're responsible for that and I hope that segment ends, too. So it's more important at this point to come to full political agreement and I'm glad that Mr. Živković supports everything that needs to happen with this programme of measures and I don't think we really need to, as he said, chairing these 45 measures to make any politicisation, because their realization implies a clearer future for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11148	I thank Mr. Chairman. Mr. Živković. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11149	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for answering my two questions and saying yes. So the money for our reforms that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs by June is due and 24 institutions have not yet been found. And that's one big problem. I ask you at the point in this agenda to conclude that at the most recent time the Council of Ministers has made a plan for finding these funds. Whether it's donations, whether it's entity budgets, or if it's another way, I'd beg that we have that plan. And another thing, I mean, the House of Peoples has no opposition. The home of the people has made a position. It can't be a narrow throat and it can't be the opposition guilty because they're being massacred, as you said in the House of Peoples. On the other hand, at yesterday's session, it was not the opposition who gave 47 amendments to the Electricity Act, but the position and the re-masked law, and you can't blame the opposition for such things. Please find a political consensus and tell this country that a political consensus has been found between those in Parliament and those in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11150	I thank Dr. Živković. Mr. Raguž picked up his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11151	So here we had a discussion with the chairman yesterday at the Expansive College. We had everyone together this morning with entity officials in OHR and with international organizations, here we have today. And it's all this morning and yesterday and today it shows two things. First, there is no quality coordination on these issues. I am not saying where the problem is right now, but I think that Parliament must give the assessment, because we see that neither laws come in time here, nor in law preparation we have secured quality participation of people who need to give answers to MPs, whether it is pre-committee preparations or commissions. We do not have enough quality communication as well as Parliament with international organisations, which then eventually come and generally take or leave behind forcing lawmakers to adopt the law. So we need to fix this situation, and I have to say, and I hope that it will respect the Council's chairman that neither the communication between Parliament and the Council of Ministers is optimal, so that responsibility is mutual. And if we respect those elements and then this more frequent meeting of yesterday should be welcomed and brought into practice by me. I expect that the chair of the leaders, i.e. the heads of political clubs, not only the positions, but also the opposition, will sit very often and open these issues and I think it will contribute to Parliament's truly becoming a central political place. Look, gentlemen, we've all gone to Europe these days, and everywhere we're told, if we don't do it from Parliament, you can't go to Europe. We can make as many laws as you want, impose one way or another, but here we have to tell each other whether we're massacred, whether we're honest, whether we're authentic. It's a way of creating an atmosphere that we're going to transfer to our public in Bosnia and Herzegovina to go. And to me, I'd just say this, and I said it this morning and in OHR, let no one expect a lady and we accept the laws as a matter of principle take it or leave it. At least, that's my personal point of view, that if I have a certain kind of repair that doesn't mean I'm against the law. I will nastojati to make it within the deadlines set and that Parliament is not slowing down the processes, but don't let us do this from Parliament, or that somewhere outside Parliament we find that that is the case. That's not good. Because of the importance of Parliament, indeed. And here I expect that on the trail of what Mr. Terzić said that he does not have a personal reservation that these deadlines and goals of ambition that are important, fulfilled in this year, I think it's really encouraging and it needs to be welcomed, but in order to achieve that, gentlemen, we need to understand that we are not well-organised enough and we are not well-coordinated enough. Don't just deliver responsibility to Parliament. We, the law, one of the three key reform laws, have not been obtained by the Council of Ministers. The Intelligence Act as Constitutional Proposer. And 48 now if more adnhesions appear, say someone wants to obstruct the law. So there's a lot of space there, so that in this relationship the Council, Parliament and then by verticality with entity parliaments and governments things are coordinated more precisely, they agree on how these deadlines can be respected. And I hope that once a month at the House of Representatives of our commitment, so we must go from ourselves, our obligations in terms of these priorities that are exposed here at the plenary session will be realised and made a contribution to the executive authorities that things go faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11152	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Mrs. Palavrić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11153	I rarely get a chance to agree with what Mr. Živković says, but this time I have to admit he's quite right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11154	Smells like love.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11155	So the opposition commits nothing but patriotism towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement reforms that we have committed and reforms that should ensure a better standard for all citizens of our country. So the citizens will decide in the elections whether we behaved well, whether the opposition was enough or not, but the opposition has the right not to be constructive and we can't do anything about it. What Mr. Živković points to is a problem, and I think that's also the problem the Council of Ministers Chairman has been pointing to. The problem is in the parliamentary majority, if we agreed to go with the laws, if our representatives participated in the draft of these laws, if our ministers in the Council of Ministers have found as proposals for these laws, then it would be normal to expect us as representatives of that parliamentary majority to support those laws. What happened with the Regulatory Agency for Electricity is really hard to accept with common sense since we know, we all knew what it means to make a decision about moving to Mostar something that already exists. Niko one slows down, although this could be a debate for us from the parliamentary majority sooner, this opposition may not be interested, but here we are honest to the end. I still expect one of them to raise his voice, actually a hand for reform laws. We will place new institutions in Tuzlo and Banja Luka and Mostar and Sarajevo, but let's not make cash into a religion that is extremely expensive, costing dozens and hundreds of millions. And that's the problem that's up to us in Parliament. So you don't say take the law, take it or leave it, but if you're going to act in amendment, act constructively, don't destroy it. That's what we do. What are we gonna do with that law? If we're gonna pull him out completely, I don't know, but obviously we won't be able to vote like the commissions in both homes did. The other thing is, the fact is, is it good or not, maybe it's good. At the moment, Republika Srpska as an entity has reportedly done more reform things than 49 Federations have done. Because the budget is not ahead of us, the budget of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the fact that the Federation has not adopted the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11156	You're changing the prime minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11157	Can I speak to the chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11159	In addition, there are other things in which Republika Srpska is more advanced than the Federation. I think that might be a good sign, but also a sign of concern for what things are for. The next thing I know, we've now won the OHR as club heads, so all the club bosses, we've got a new package, which we would have said hodograms, even though we ourselves should have known about these hodograms and no surprise is what we were given in OHR. What we are not aware of is the fact that we as Parliament think we should sit down and wait for the Council of Ministers, entity governments, the Directorate for European Integration to do all our work. I think we're too static. I think we need to take matters into our own hands. We have to revive the work of clubs, and we have to revive the work of parlamentary commissions, because here's this rulebook we've been doing ourselves, so it's been a year since he showed up in front of us. But in the Rules of Procedure, I expect us gentlemen to take each and every one, I'll wait for my colleagues to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11160	Quiet, please. Listen to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11161	I expect us to put ourselves in the Rules of Procedure and start acting that way, so that every law we've voted here we can look at how it's implemented. So we won't implement it. It's by executive authority, but what's with the dreams. We wait too long and we don't wonder what, how we're gonna get going. Here's one example of the Law on indirect taxation. We adopted him. What does that mean? Nothing at all. But nothing unless we make a single account operational. Who's gonna do it? The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board should draw up a bill on the methods of payment to that single account. Where's our money in the state budget? And if we had done that, things would have been clearer by now, and we wouldn't be worried about where we'd find 4 million and 900,000 marks for the Department of Defense. Just an example. I don't want to talk about the others. Or the Law on Defence Reform. We've got the gentlemen at the same time if they're up to the executive. And every moment we sit here and talk like this, it's nice to talk, we may have something new and find out, but every hour is a loss for us, if we're not working on concrete projects, and every time we ask the information we know, if we know well how far it's gone with those 16 measures. Is in 16 measures and those 18 measures etc. Let's not tell the story about the story. I'm asking you to count us down for seconds, and we're telling stories for stories. Thank you very much. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11162	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. I ask a little patience to conclude this debate to listen to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11163	Here's what I'm gonna do to get her locked up fast. Iretati just say a few things. Unfortunately, as usual, it is only before the end of the session and for the interventions that we discuss some things, we call the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, we do not prepare, etc. I just want to say three things in the context of this debate. We missed this morning, and of course not for the first time, and we'll probably miss out more times to assess the role of the international community in this country's life, that is, in all aspects of its action. The international community can't wake up one morning and say, you know, from now on we'll just come by, we'll have coffee, you're responsible, this is your country, if you don't do it there's no money, etc. The international community is absolutely responsible and cannot be drawn to the creation of the entire project of Bosnia and Herzegovina from Dayton to here. Let me just remind you. A privatisation project created by international notifications and the international community. Project this, project that. So absolutely all projects implemented under the company's reforms etc. are to the most extent, 90% of the creations of the international community. Even the actors they conduct are the choice of the international community. So there's no talking about the international community's non-responsibility. All those who sat with us today are paid for it, they have 15-20-30 thousand marks of pay. So we have to have a little pride, a little bit of this, reality and say what it is. That's one aspect. Mr. Terzić, I think you missed it to tell them. I didn't get a chance, of course, because I was this guy, there were 30 of us, and there was no way. So, you can't tell the international community, Mr. Terzić, me or Hejsu, I'm gonna stop by your place for coffee and no problem, and you, this is your country, you're going to Europe, I'm not going, etc. He created this, which is an individual international community in it. They create defence reforms, create reforms of the fiscal system, etc. And I can't say right now we're washing our hands. That's one thing. The other thing is, we have to face ourselves. So we very simply say the programme we adopt, agreed 44 laws, etc. The quantity that we must face is that we do not agree with the content of reforms, i.e. the objectives that want to achieve reform. We have to discuss that finding when we take responsibility. We can't just say and it's not enough just to tell me that we're going to pass 44 laws. Here I'll tell you in a few just. If we agree on the Law on Higher Education, if we do, we said we would bring it, but if we agree on content, will we agree on the Security Intelligence Act, etc. So it's not just the quantity, it's the consensus, the political consensus of the objectives and the content of the reforms that are being implemented. And finally, something here is about the application and implementation of the law. This is what the Law on indirect taxation was talking about, etc., whether it was implemented. I'm not gonna talk about another 51. There is no civil convention, there is no public understanding because of how laws are passed, because of how citizens see them as a struggle between peoples of political options. Citizens don't see them as their own interest. So there is no consensus in the public that it is a matter of benefit to people and that people see these laws as restrictive, as a repressive measure towards them, but that this is a general thing that their authorities have brought to their benefit. So there is no such segment and aspect as the subject of our debate. Here, excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11164	Thank you, colleague Belkić. Dr. Avdić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11165	I will also try briefly to express my opinion encouraged by this direct communication on the relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament and this is good and should be established as a practice of talks and co-operation between the executive and legislative authorities. There may be an international community missing, but let's be optimistic, and one day we will have the opportunity to have representatives of the international community communicate on this basis with the BiH Parliament. That's one thing. Secondly, the objective process of adopting legal projects is partly burdened with the amendment phase, which aims to improve text and improve legal projects, etc., but wonders one fact. It is that very often we have a large number of amendments, conditioned by a position already agreed at the Council of Ministers level, and it really makes sense to me that it opposes how the Council of Ministers adopts the law and experiences degradation in the BiH Parliament. It's a fundamental question for Parliament clubs. Thirdly, what I'm saying is, there are no people here in a classic position, or division in position and opposition. All transition countries that have gone towards European integration, including us who are heading towards European integration, have no objective division in the opposition's real position. Unless you want some political profit on behalf of your political party, on behalf of your political club, I don't think there's any political profit here for individual political parties. It has only profits for BiH, profits for BiH citizens, from the aspect of joining European integration and entering full membership of the European Community. In this context, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to offer one such project in view of what we heard this morning and also in the OHR, which should not be underestimated and these warnings should be viewed on some basis and, according to that, to the simple orientation work, the work plan for the next 6 months, while respecting what the Council of Ministers has done so far, but objectively, it would be good to test this political will of all parliamentary parties from this time to European integration with the conclusion that we have verbally pleaded for European integration, and objectively in practice there are problems with the aspect of the adoption of legal projects, which means to be expected if the Council of Ministers agrees, that the Law on Higher Education should not have problems, etc., etc. And finally, it might be good in these coming months for the position to raise less political issues, because the position has the possibility of simply communicating with the government through its ministers in governments, and the opposition does not. In this context, there may be some small divisions, but objectively it needs to be as rational as possible and direct all the political energy that is this way through European integration. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-12-0.u11166	Thank you. No Niko ever answered for a hearing again. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding the debate with a note that it is good to have such discussions and Parliament is not the place where the degradation of the law is conducted, but that the laws are adopted, and I do not think that this rhetoric should be introduced into Parliament because this is not happening. What it translates out of this is that we need to strengthen communication on the relationship between the Council of Ministers, and it is good to show that we are ready to do so, in order to adopt laws and speed up the pace of reform. There are obligations to be informed once a month, and it is a matter of clubs, political parties working on political consensus and adopting laws. In doing so, I am willing to make my own personal maximum contribution. Thank you very much. I'll see you at the new 30th session. Thank you very much. The sitting's done at 2:00.
