ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1938	... Home to the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of the information funds, I welcome all present, and here I am opening the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At today's session, there are 14 delegates from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 5 from the order of the Serb people 4, Mr Spasojević, justified his absence and reported, is not good. For the 18th session, the next agenda is scheduled. 1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions, that's the first point, 2. Journal of the 17th Session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 3. Proposal for a Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Administrative Procedure Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Official Journal of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 7. Proposal for a Law on Infringements of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Second Reading, 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, Proposer Representative's House, Second Reading, 9. Giving consent to ratification Proposal for a Decision on ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention against Doping, Warsaw, 12 September 2002, proposed by the BiH Presidency 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Proposal for a Decision on the ratification of the Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity of BiH for 2003, 12. Proposal for a resolution on the exercise of pensioner rights, return to the Federation of BiH, proposed by Mr Goran Milojević, 2 13. Appointment of the Ombdusmen for Human Rights of BiH, 14. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Council of Europe, instead of Hasan Muratović, we know that he resigned whether and 15. Replacement of members of the Investigation Commission on this case that happened with Croatian officials, thank you very much. Here, that's the agenda. Is there an amendment to the agenda, a proposal? Thank you. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1940	Dear Presidency, Honored fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, I suggest that point 12. The motion for a resolution on the exercise of pensioners' right to return to the Federation of BiH, proposed by counterpart Goran Milojević, has been postponed in a way to return to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and is considering this House, following treatment on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The explanation, I will not present much detail during this argument because there will be opportunities in the debate on the issue, however, we have a basic proposal for a resolution that suggests, as soon as possible, that one number of pensioners in the Federation be allowed to exercise their rights through the Federal Pension Insurance Office. The indicators provided and available to all delegates show that the basis, i.e. the contribution rate for PIO to RS, is 24% and 35% of the opportunity in the Federation. Users at the Federal Institute are 287 thousand and in PIO RS 183, or 61% of pensioners use their right through the Federal Institute and 38% through the Pension Insurance Fund of RS. There is an agreement between entity funds that is still in force, because no other agreement is made and has regulated the issue of achieving pensioners in both entities of their rights in such a way that they have legal certainty and ensure that their pensions are paid regularly. It was a verdict by the Court of Human Rights, the House of Human Rights for a group of pensioners by name and specifically by six, who have sought to exercise their rights in the Federal. The promoter is urged that the House of Human Rights verdict applies to all those who are, who want to exercise their rights through the Federal PIA and are those of an opportunity between 15 and 20 thousand. The interpretation of the Federal PIA is also how the decision of the House of Human Rights is read that the decision concerns the names and particulars of those six users to whom the Federal Fund has fulfilled the obligation of the House of Human Rights as signed. The resolution, with the proposal, proposes that a group of pensioners be granted rights, calling for human rights. I believe that in this way as a resolution has been proposed, a group of pensioners could make more pensions if it can be considered human rights in a broader sense, but also if we observe human rights, a huge number of pensioners would be able to lower their pensions, reduce and question the regularity of their payments. For all of these reasons, I fully support and understand the need to address this issue in general, but not in a way that one group solves and the larger group 3 threatens. And I think that it should be much more thorough with the availability of more data to initiate this issue, besides the International Monetary Fund is involved in resolving this issue, and our role is, of course, to try to resolve these rights equally for all pensioners in BiH in the same way, but it probably means that burdens on the entities and those who pay the contributions are equally in BiH. I think that for these reasons it would be very useful to return this issue to the competent Commission, to consider in the spirit of available information and to think, offer a better solution. I think we can come up with a better solution. So, please put my proposal to postpone this point in a way that is re-examined by the competent Commission, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1941	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Genjac. Any further suggestions, questions, explanations? Goran, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1942	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests, for me this is not an explanation of this, Mr. Genjac's request, it is not acceptable for me as the promoter of this Resolution, and I insist that this resolution remain on the agenda as it is predicted and this one, I demand that this House be declared. I can't see. We all know the meaning of one resolution. So I had no claim here to impose, or to offer some new solutions to the pension system in BiH, I simply want the decision of the House of Human Rights to be understood as general, because that is the only way we can understand it. Marko Marković, who lived in Sarajevo and paid a pension fund here in Sarajevo, could not have retired if he addressed the House of Human Rights, and Petar Petrović, who did the same, did not address the House, had no right to do so. It's a fundamental human right that a man can exercise his right to retire where he paid and where those pension contributions went. So I insist on keeping this on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1943	Thank you, Mr. Goran. We heard the discussion of Goran Milojević, the submitor of the Resolution. Is anyone else picking up? Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1944	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, what fellow Milojević said is quite respectable. He's the spokesperson for the Resolution and we don't really know how we could now take down one regular item of the agenda this, from the debate. What Mr. Genjac said, I don't think he just said one more important thing, that in the meantime there were some new facts that were objective if 4 Constitutional and Legal Committee were discussing this resolution where there was even one amendment whether, at this,...we didn't accept it, we asked Mr. Genjac to run for it, which he did for the House session. It's called Resolution, but it's not the point. It can be observed essentially if the whole exposure is to be taken into account and the reason Mr. Genjac said, this, is to eventually get back to work. So these new facts are one act that came two days ago. I don't know if it was received by representatives of the Serbian delegates' club from the Federal Pension Insurance Institute. So, without the desire to accept any of this, I personally have, I advocate the defence of all the positions that the Constitutional and Legal Commission brings, but this is a new element, therefore, without the desire to say that the resolution in its objective is, in its intensities, the motion itself has a tendency to come up with an unfair and unfair solution in relation to anyone, no, I do not want to say this, but this act and the reference to the proposal for a Federal Pension Insurance Institute, that I do not repeat all this said by Mr Genjac, give a lot of reason that here I, through my approach, appeal and ask Mr Milojević, therefore, that we are really looking at the content of this Resolution again and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, in relation to the new facts and new knowledge, will come up with one concrete and clear, clear new ideas that the very important things in which makes it very important and what we thinks and the meaning of this matter, that we do. We could hardly go beyond what we've been reading on these three pages that we've received from four, the Federal Pension Insurance Institute, and we can add to the resolution in the content that we've received from our esteemed colleague, Milojević, this one, as a promoter, what we've established on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, is even being challenged by this act and the amendments that have been given by the Harvatian representatives' clubs to this resolution. So, we aim to come up with a quality text of resolution that will be a just and just solution for this very sensitive category of inhabitants of all BiH. So I ask Mr. Milojević to eventually accept, only that the delay to return it to the committee in charge, yes, we would love it if you responded, because you weren't, you were on the road when we discussed it last time, so you weren't as an authorised promoter at the session of the Constitutional.Legal Commissions, to come to us and come together to one solution so that this House could bring this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1945	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Are there any more debaters? Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1946	I thank you, I appreciate this all that my colleagues have said, but I still can't help feeling that this issue is trying to further politicize and I can't accept a statement here that someone is jeopardizing someone else's human rights if they're fighting for their human rights. I think it's people stalling this problem, so five-tenths of them not to say hundreds of them are going to die until they get rid of it. I'm asking for your understanding, which means you're giving support to this text of Resolution that doesn't endanger anyone. It just means it's given right to whoever actually has it. Whoever obtained it on the basis of payment of contributions and therefore I, regardless of what I highly appreciate fellow Filipović, am not prepared to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1947	Is anyone still picking up the word? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1948	So we don't get it wrong. All those who are the subject of this Resolution make their pensions regular and every month. However, 15,000 pensioners, who exercise those rights through the PIO RS Fund, have submitted a request for these rights to be exercised in the Federal Fund, in a way that can be understood that one decision for 6 pensioners is generally valid for all pensioners. Why did they file that request? Because pensions in the Federation are bigger. Why is retirement in the Federation bigger? Because the detachment rate for the contribution is higher. No Federation pensioner has filed a request to meet in RS. Why? Because no one's going to apply for a smaller pension. And all of them, both, regularly and every month, receive pensions under the Agreement signed between the Funds. Therefore, if 20,000 or 15,000 new insurances are accepted into a fund, believe it will endanger pensions in a way that will reduce that pension, and it will certainly endanger the regularity of the payout. And that's why I'm saying that the realisation in the way it is thought that a smaller group in the vast part can be achieved here is going to jeopardize a large group. That's why I, which is why I suggested that all of this be taken into account and, with the presence of fellow Milojević, consider everything, try to find a quality solution. Of course, I have a proposal to postpone it on the Commission. As a delegate, I ask that my proposal be put to the vote, while respecting all that has been said. However, we cannot bring resolutions that do not solve the problem, but create new five problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1949	Here's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1950	I am sorry that today's session begins in this way with an exchange of alleged signs of some kind of fire, because the truly tolerated atmosphere that we have had over the past year as we work together in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly gives us all the right to be proud of what we have been doing in the last year, and I point out in all of this, and interviews and public appearances that this part of the BiH Parliament is something special to the people in relation to all the parliaments in BiH, and I stand behind those words. To go back to this resolution. I can't agree with a fellow Genjac who says these people filed for federal PIA or MIA because pensions are bigger here. They submitted a request because they acquired this right on the basis of payments on 6 territories where the pensioners, or the Federation of BiH, are now in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1951	Thank you very much, Mr. Milojević. Radovanović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1952	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I suggest we maybe cut this discussion short. Given that all the procedural conditions have been met, that this resolution is on the agenda, given that the Commission has passed, and the Proposer has not withdrawn this Resolution, not to discuss the Resolution, we will have the opportunity to discuss it when it is on the agenda, adopt the agenda and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1953	Thank you very much. Here's the one before we adopt the agenda. It was Mr. Genjac's suggestion that we should be told by the Rules of Procedure whether or not. Here you go, Philippe.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1954	/No microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1955	Great, please nice, I'll put the agenda to the vote now. Who accepts, who agrees with this agenda? Who's in? We agree with the agenda, so we'll see through the discussion. The agenda accepted 12. I'm sorry. Who's restrained? You were for Hilmo and three were abstentions. Thank you very much. So, the agenda was adopted and please, the agenda was adopted with 11 for and 3 abstentions. So here we go to the agenda. First point, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to delegate questions are received by Mr Tomislav Limov, Velimir Jukić and Nade Radović. Are delegates satisfied with the answers to delegate questions? Here you go, Mr. Limov. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1956	Thank you, Mr. President, dear fellow envoys, representatives of BiH institutions, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all together and I want to say that I have received an answer to my envoy's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1957	Excuse me, please tell someone there to make it a little more quiet or close the door. Take care of it over there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1958	May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1959	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1960	So, at our 16th session held on December 22nd, 2003, I asked the Council of Ministers three questions that are interlinked. I got an answer to just one question and, of course, I'm not sure that all the facts are relevant when answering my question, given in the answer itself. That's why my dissatisfaction, first of all. And secondly, I'm not satisfied with the fact that the other two questions, so on second and third, have not been answered at all. From this response I received, it is evident that so far we have at the level of the BiH state established 41 institutions. I know, therefore, that this response is not complete, and I don't know why, for example, there is no State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, which is based in Tuzla, is therefore not indicated in the response. Of the 41 state institutions, 39 are based in Sarajevo, 38 of them in the so-called Federal Part and 1 in Serbia's Sarajevo, and 2 institutions are based in Banja Luka. I'm not satisfied with the fact that the Council of Ministers didn't answer my questions at all as I said the other two questions. That's why I'm gonna do it again today. First, what is the national structure of the leaders and employees of each of the BiH institutions and, drugi, does the Council of Ministers have a set plan of the BiH institutions' headquarters to be established in the next 3 years and when will the plan be delivered to representatives and representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? I remind you, we need to establish 25 new state institutions in the next 4 months. In order not to be able to determine the headquarters of new state institutions, we need a plan in order to lead a well-designed and systematic policy in this segment. 8 Please, Mr. President, ask the Council of Ministers to answer my two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1961	Thank you very much. So, here I would now secretary, please Mr. Secretary, so Mr. Limov is pleased with the 3 asked questions he got on one, the 2 he didn't get the answer and looking for an answer to two questions. Thank you very much. Next up, colleagues, are you picking up someone for? Please be careful, nada Radović, you have no questions here. No, but the answers first, Mr. raditi, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1962	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer that I am not satisfied with and am not in principle satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers, because it is said that I have asked the Council of Ministers a question and at its 40th session since 05.02, it gave an answer by saying that the Ministry of Refugees or Human Rights and Refugees is not competent. I didn't ask the ministry to do it, I asked them, and I thought it might have been another resolute ministry to give me an answer or a legal lesson on how to get an answer. And I don't think that's how the Council of Ministers should do it. Not to be told by some ministry that said it wasn't competent to deal with the issue. It is specifically about the premises of one entity that are usurped into another entity, and they are owned by economic or state-owned institutions, by economic operators, when will they come into possession? I think it was logical here that the Ministry of Justice would answer or give legal advice about how these legal entities would come into their business space. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1963	Thank you. So, Mr. Nada Radović is not absolutely, he is not satisfied with the answer and I would like to ask from Mr. Nade's stenogram of this discussion to be delivered to the Council of Ministers. So that the Council of Ministers must have a portfolio that can answer the question. Thank you very much. Mr. Velimir Jukić has received an answer to his delegate question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1964	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, honored guests, my question was addressed to the Council of Ministers. It was about the CIPS project. Why is it that the CIPS project is being delayed? Will the adoption, or realization, take place? And when can we expect the CIPS project to be realized? I'm happy with a part of the answer, in the part where they gave me the data that they did, and I believe they're right. Of course, I'm not going to check on them, I'm not going down on them. However, I am not satisfied with the second part of the 9 answers where I asked the question when the completion of the CIPS project is expected, so in this response, the last sentence is very interesting. The one who's been asked the question, it seems a little bit like he didn't understand the question. And from the occasion it corresponds to the way it says the update of the database, the acquisition of the data, the personalization of documents and the release of documents are processes that do not stop. They are of constant character and need present and future generations. I think this is an inappropriate sentence. This is well-known to everyone, but there's no record of what's most important here. When we expect to end the realisation or replace existing documents, and I don't think it's right to behave in a way if in this last question not all the details you want are said, the answer to them as it is not understood. It could be said here, I didn't mention that BiH might be another state, so they could say they have no data, etc. because the issue is not precise and in that sense. I think that this is not correct and that the one to whom the question is asked, or who answers, should not behave in this way when writing answers to questions asked. So I'm going to ask again, complete my question with the next question, so when can we expect an end to the replacement of existing documents? And now I'm just going to comment briefly. Of the 150 municipalities in BiH, this project began to be implemented in 68 by 01.01. So it's not even in half. True, population coverage is about 80%, probably because it's bigger cities. However, this project is also not implemented evenly, so there is space specifically from the area of the county from which I come, covered by 01.01. was 25% and the level of execution, so these replacements of old documents were somewhere between 10% and 15%. So, very little. Why am I mentioning here this, percentage of the realization? So because of the delay in implementing the CIPS project, this state, which is responsible for this realization, has denied one very significant right for the citizens of BiH, and this is the right that with a personal document, a ID card but only this new one, they can cross the state line, so they don't need a passport. I think this is a very significant right and a leap of this right, a significant limit is being made for people crossing the border. And I would now again and call on all those responsible for the implementation of this project to really work and to speed up the realization, i.e. the replacement of existing documents by the CIPS project. Also here in response correctly writes is probably the correct account when it is said that this year the total income of 81 million KM is expected, therefore, a very significant income. I think there should then be additional funds if they are not currently accumulated and invested that this project is beginning to be realised in all 140 municipalities in BiH, that this job should be completed as soon as possible, because this is the interest of all citizens. Here's how much I had as a comment and an additional question, so when do we expect the completion of the CIPS project, or the replacement of existing documents?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1965	Thank you very much. So, we could say here now that Mr. Jukić is partially satisfied with the answer, but we could say that he is also partially unsatisfactory with the answer. Since we are therefore well-intentioned towards the Council of Ministers, 10 or so to the Ministry, we will say that Mr. Jukić is partially satisfied with the answer whether it is. Here, I think all of our secretary will, uh, record and forward this to the Council of Ministers, or to the competent ministries. Since there were no more answers to the parliamentary, or delegate's questions, I ask my colleagues to answer the question now. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. So Mr. Čengić, then Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1966	The respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the international community, media, speak a lot in public these days about the censorship of freedom in BiH, that is, media censorship and freedom of expression, and the ban on writing about political and public figures. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. to ask the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice of BiH the following; is it true that the censorship of the media and thus the censorship of freedom of expression is being conducted in BiH, and how many are being first-degreed and how many judicial decisions are being given to the media in BiH regarding writing about political and public figures? I stress to the media in BiH. So, first question, how many were first-degreed and how many judicial verdicts were given to the BiH media about writing about political and public figures? (b) How many existing legal solutions in BiH are in line with international standards and the legal regulation of democratic countries? ( c) What politicians have been put under the protection of the media court so far? I ask and pray for the names and last names of all individuals, and d) Are these cases, contrary to the Declaration of Freedom of Media, which since 12.02.2004, published by the Council of Europe, and whether cases of court banning the publication of texts on politicians of provisional measures could damage BiH's position in the process of preparing BiH for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? As far as I know, I know from the media about several cases of write ban, such as, for example, the Daily Avaz is forbidden to write about Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Days are forbidden to write about Mr. fahrudin Radončić, and the Independent is forbidden to write about Mr. Kalinič, I think. If so, it is reportedly interesting that in his, in his, that the court has issued a ban on publishing not the truth about Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's decision regarding the Daily Avaz. 11 The question arises, does this mean, since there are no court rulings for other politicians, that other politicians can be declared not to be true? Or does that mean that only by a court ruling can we protect the rights of individuals of citizens and individuals to write the truth about them. Are we not all bound up in our stand and in our public communication to tell the truth and to write the truth? All of course the media, first of all, with its professionalism and objectivity but everyone else. The next question arises, did this kind of behavior, and BiH comes to the position that its citizens are being discriminated against? So are BiH citizens in this case discriminated? Because they're under protection, the others aren't under protection, because one can't be written about anything but the truth, and the other can't be said the same thing about it. The next question is whether there is discrimination between politicians in BiH, for example, national, entity-based, on the basis of whether someone is in power or opposition or possibly on a party basis? These are very serious questions. As a citizen, not going further into the discussion until I get an answer, as a public figure, and as an object of very often media treatment, I believe I have the right to ask such a question, but it is more important that the answer to this question can be of great benefit to the public and to spread freedom. BiH has opted for democracy, defined for freedom, priced for it, and I don't think it can be otherwise but that everyone in BiH must have equal treatment and that freedom of public expression cannot be questioned. As professionalism of journalists must be a minimum principle and professionalism cannot be protected by media campaigns or individual events that don't care about laws or what's called public responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1967	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. So Mr. Šiljegović came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1968	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, a delegate issue based on Article 118, and Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I refer to the Council of Ministers and that is one set of small issues. Under one, whether CRA is a state agency like all other ministries and independent administrative organisations, and if it is why it does not respect the laws of this country, the Law on the Ministry, the Law on State Service, etc.? Why the CIA employees don't respect Article 43. The Law on Communications, which defines employees under the Law on State Service, and why is it not worth the pay cut for them as for the other employees of state institutions? Under three, which type of work in a regulatory body such as CRA can be performed by a machine technician, automatic technician, dentist, sanitary technician, chemical lab, dental technician, cosmetic, meat and milk processor, etc. Are they government officials with an average salary of over a thousand marks? 12 Under four, when will the Agency if the State respects Article 9. The BiH Constitution that says institutions represent the peoples of BiH? Under five, the frequencies are the state well-being of all three peoples in BiH, as can then be interpreted as losing 39% of licenses in the competition for long-term licenses from RS and 15% in the Federation. The question is, are these just Bosniak frequencies? Under six, can the CRA herself bring the price list and the rules on use and fees for the frequency spectrum, or is that for the Council of Ministers? Under seven, I ask that a full review be carried out of the distribution of the frequency system, because it is more than obvious that individuals have become rich in national goods by selling the TV stations, with the approval of individual structures from the CRA. I'm looking for this reason to establish a monopoly of individual TV stations on the market and own an unlimited number of TV channels. And under eight, how it can happen that someone's using the state's good, makes a budget on it, and doesn't respect the laws of this country. Can anyone in this country be above the law and whether independence and professionalism must be paid separately and whether all other civil servants are amateurs in this business? So it's a spectrum of issues related to one area and I'm asking the Council of Ministers for an answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1969	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović, Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1970	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the international community, gentlemen journalists, and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I ask the question of the Council of Ministers, when will BiH receive the Law on Olustration? Or when will the Council of Ministers' bill be sent to parliamentary procedure? I have no doubt as a delegate in the House of Peoples, that this law needs BiH, and what made me ask that question? Let me explain. In common, I am a member of the Joint Commission for Defence Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence security structures at BiH level. We had a session of the Commission on 18th of this month, when we discussed the draft law, I had one amendment that the members of the Commission did not adopt, which is why I am asking this question. Namely, my amendment referred to the following. I wanted to get into the law, that in this very important service to me, I couldn't be in responsible management places to work people who worked in ideological times, the one before, you know which one, that I don't call. I noticed that there was no attitude with a large number of my colleagues because they were restrained. The largest number of colleagues in that session of the Commission was restrained and my proposal did not go away because they said I should get into the lustration. It was quite clear to me to 13 that I was in part into lustration, and since it did not pass on that commission, and as we can see, in other life activities there is a need for lustration in BiH, I believe it should come to parliamentary procedure, from the Council of Ministers, and if it does not come from the Council of Ministers at a certain time, when I get an answer, then I will really take action to have one of us here or the club submit a proposal for this law in lustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1971	Here's what we heard from Mr. Brk. Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Is there anyone else who would like to ask a parliamentary, or delegate question? He's not answering. So we've exhausted this agenda point. And we move on to the second item of the agenda, Ad2. The adoption of the record from the 17th session of the House of the Peoples Is there anyone who would like to take a word for it? Thank you, no one's answering. I'm putting the record to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1972	I apologize for what's like this. I've been warned, I've been reading something, so we've got a record under this point, 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions, so the home here concluded that the Constitutional and Legal Commission was in charge of not having any reasoned data, facts, no information from the College on the subject, and therefore the Constitutional and Legal Commission failed to carry out this part of the conclusion, and under 2nd, it was said that it was decided on the Constitutional and Legal Committee in conclusion that it was necessary to review the transcript, this, the synogram of the session, that it was not concluded, so let it be checked, as it said, under 2nd, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission decided whether it was necessary to access the amendments and amendments to the Law on State Service in the institutions of BiH and that within 15 days, the proposal for amendments and amendments to the law. I mean, first this deadline, and then this conclusion, I really don't remember it. I asked some other colleagues, they couldn't remember that. Let's get this one checked out. So it's an intervention and a request to come up with what we promised
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1973	Thank you very much for the intervention, but here's how we can get out with a vote on the record with this intervention to be checked, so we'll accept it as said in the stenogram, right? Thank you very much. Who's in? Unanimously, thank you very much. 14 The third item of the agenda is Ad.3. The proposal for a law on the production of arms and public equipment, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, We are on the second reading, the House of Peoples passed the law in the first reading, the 17th session in the second reading is under discussion on amendments and votes on the law. Here you go, so the people's home adopted this, this in our first reading, we had our first reading, here you go. Do we have a debate, Mr. Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1974	Dear colleagues, I have submitted two amendments to the proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment. I don't have the authority to make these amendments, so let me get this straight. The amendments were adopted at the House of Representatives and the objective which led me to submit these amendments is too much to save some time because we have the opportunity to adopt the text in the same form as it was adopted at the House of Representatives and to avoid it seems to me in this case to be an unnecessary formation of the Commission for Harmonisation. That was motive. You have received amendments, so these are amendments adopted at the House of Representatives, and it is an amendment which, as the reasoning says, is intended to comply with the adopted Criminal Law of BiH, to avoid any other law that prescribes criminal acts not being in line with the general principles of the Criminal Law, and to avoid possible overlaps in the regulation of criminal offences in BiH. You have received an amendment and therefore, where certain concepts of what is an offence, what is a criminal offence, and Amendment II to delete Article 14 with the reason to amend and supplement the Law on the BiH Court of Justice of January 2003, define the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice on criminal matters and exclude the possibility of other laws specifically determining the jurisdiction of the court, which is quite understandable. Likewise, as mentioned above, the amendments in Article 13 do not require sanctions to be imposed in particular. So that's an explanation, and I suggest that these two amendments be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1975	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Genjac, do we have any further debaters? We don't. I also think here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to join Mr. Genjac and I think it's a good idea to avoid the formation of committees and try to adopt this law in the same text as the representative did, as the House of Representatives adopted it. Do we have any objections? Thank you very much. Here's how I put it, you had this amendment, I put the amendment and the vote. Who's in? Unanimously, without Hasan Čengić. 15 Therefore, we will put this amendment II to the vote. Who's for Amendment II? So, unanimously, thank you very much. Thank you colleagues, really this one, for understanding, because this is going pretty well. The draft law on amendments and additions, her, Jozo, I'm sorry, so here's when we adopted these amendments, I'm putting the law to the vote. Who's in? Unanimously, thank you very much. So the law was passed, the House of Peoples passed the law in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted it. Thank you very much. Fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH, the Council of Ministers' Proposer We had a first reading at the 17th session and this is a second reading. Please, who's answering for the word? There were no amendments, there was no one, so we're putting the law to the vote. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Thank you very much, unanimously. So, this House of People, if this, the House of Commons had adopted this law with two amendments, our House had no amendments, and we would have had to choose the Commission immediately to bring the texts into line. I'd like the presidents of the clubs to propose one member to each of their clubs for the Text Matching Commission. Boško, here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1976	The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr Radovanović Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1977	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1978	The Bosniak delegates' club proposes to Mr. Nimarli.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1979	Sir, so Mr. Neimarli. Sir, here you are, Ante, president of the Croatian Representatives' Club,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1980	The Croatian envoys' club, proposed Mr Tomislav Limov. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1981	Thank you very much. So, the proposal is for Vinko Radovanović in front of the Serbian people, Mr Hilmo Neimarlija in front of the Bosniak people and Mr Tomo Limov in front of the Croatian people. Now do we agree to vote for a commission like this? Who's in? So, Ante, what are you for? For, thank you very much, so unanimously. Fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers and this is what we had on our first reading. I'm putting the law on the table. So, no debates. Please take a moment, hello fellow walkers, hello, fellow walkers, you're in the way of Parliament. We talked about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure, in which the Council of Ministers proposes. I put the law under discussion, no one answered the word. I suggest we pass this law. Who's in? So, thank you very much, unanimously. So we passed the law in the same text that was adopted by the House of Commons. Thank you very much. The sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of BiH, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers We adopted this law in the first reading, so I put the law under discussion. Had, Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1982	I apologize to the chairman not about the law, but I think there is a need at the moment that news has just been reported on federal television, that the president of our friendly Macedonians, with nine crew members killed in a plane crash that took place on the way to Mostar where the Investment Conference was to be held, I think it would be good to, as the House at this point, direct a telegram of condolences to the Government of Macedonia and the predsjedništvo of Mekedonija, I think it would be good for the sekretarijat of this House to prepare a text that would later be sent to me as the House of Peoples. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1983	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Nice gesture. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1984	Mr. President, I suggest that with a minute of silence we honor immediately those who have been killed in the context of total activity by supporting this commitment to send a telegram of condolences immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1985	Thank you very much. I accept it, gentlemen, that this hour of feeling is a matter of respect for our colleagues from Macedonia. rahmet, rest, glory and every thank you on behalf of the House of the Peoples of BiH. Let's continue our session, then here's a sad moment. Is anyone reporting for a discussion regarding this law? He's not answering. So I'm putting the law to the vote. Who's in? So we passed the law and we need to know that it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted it. Thank you very much. Agenda 7th, Ad. 7. The proposal for a law on violations of BiH, the proposal of the Council of Ministers, was also held in this House in the first reading and I am opening a debate on this law. Is anyone picking up? So, we seem to have discussed everything in the first reading and this is good. I am putting the draft law on BiH's violations to the vote. Who's in? When it's for a Limov, it's good. Thank you very much. No one's against it. So, unanimously, and we passed this law in the same text as, excuse me, please, a little mistake. I'm sorry, I'm very sorry about one of these, the House of Representatives had one amendment and therefore this was not adopted in the same text, our House had no amendments and I suggest we shorten the procedure, that the same Commission that we previously selected agreed both texts, both laws. Who's up for it? Thank you very much. Here, let me suggest a good thing. Thank you very much. It's the eighth item of the agenda, Add.8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act, displaced persons in BiH, Proposer Representatives' House, second reading please, if anyone is reporting for this, Mr Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1986	Dear colleagues, we received from the House of Representatives a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. The law was originally proposed by one of the MPs in the House of Representatives and after being accepted at the House of Representatives, of course also delivered to the House of Peoples. The Law on Amendments and the Law on Refugees is very short. There are two members, and I will read them in their main specifics, because it won't take long. That Article 1 is to be in Article 19. The Refugees Act adds a new item, which reads "persons who have replaced property during the period provided for by the property laws, and have applied for the refund of their replaced assets, acquire the right to return property after they have proved that the replacement was made under duress and when they make the other Contracting Parties available for its replaced assets" and Article 2 of this Act enters into force on the eighth day of publication. In the light of the law, refugees were delivered mainly from Croatia, who replaced refugees from BiH, found themselves in a humiliating situation, in which they were left without their property, their assets seized by RS authorities' decisions. A number of issues are raised here, such as whether the property laws apply to refugees from Croatia or if they refer to whether this could have been done before certain agreements with Croatia were concluded. People from Croatia who have replaced property with persons from BiH lose property in BiH who have received a replacement, and the property they have changed in Croatia cannot be returned mainly because those persons with whom they have changed property have been included as owners of their property and have no obligation to return property. I would like to tell you immediately to the Commission, on the committee responsible of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I have been against this law for several large reasons. Under one, the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH is not a law dealing with property rights issues. Property rights regulate the entire set of property laws that we have adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and it is unacceptable that one provision in the Law on Refugees concerning property rights is introduced into the Law on Refugees and that is to derivate a series of provisions in property laws. That's one. Two, the notion is that the category of disputed replacements, whether they are forced or not, should be determined by a court. Whether it is a BiH court, whether it is a court in Croatia, because it mainly concerns the question of those who came from Croatia mainly to the area of Banja Luka, Krajina and those who went out of that area to Croatia, in a very unclear way, in which way and which court will determine it. In my opinion, in a way that's impossible to determine. 19 Third, it is assumed that the institutions of another state could be applicable at all, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH cannot, of course, prescribe any norm in other state institutions. Fourthly, when all of this is taken into account, and all of this is given in mind, since the law will be inapplicable, as it will interfere with the implementation of property laws, do not delay the need to address issues of a number of persons who are discriminated against in an adequate manner, including interstate agreements, so, given all of this in mind, I think the law will contribute to maintaining the consequences of the population's movement, which has often been called ethnic cleansing. For all of these reasons, I think the law is unacceptable. For these large formal and of course content reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1987	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is anyone still getting the word? Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1988	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, last time we read this, we had a lot of discussions about this law. I then expressed my opinion and now I repeat again, that I do not see that anything is controversial in this article that is proposed. These are two basic rights, it is the right to challenge, to prove the replacement committed under duress and to place the property at the disposal when it has its own assets. It's two rights that are, in my opinion, not controversial. As far as Mr. Halid's argument is concerned, I want to say, as far as the jurisdiction of the law, the law in which this problem is being settled, solves the mass of property rights, so I don't see why this property law wouldn't be put into that law. I can't accept that under two, to ask which court is in charge. Please, it probably takes someone to determine, but the jurisdiction of the court to be a problem, not to solve it, I can't accept it, and as far as the actions of another state are concerned, I can't accept it either, because we're passing a law for our country. It means that we settle the situation in our country and what we think, and everything about other countries, will be regulated by some interstate agreements and contracts.(?) That's why I think I'm repeating it again, and I don't think these rights are slow and that this amendment and supplementation should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1989	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. Here you are, Mr. Mintre, Mr. Marinović of the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1990	It means Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidents, honourable envoys, esteemed guests and guests, at first I express 20 regrets, which in order to prepare for this session as the Resorno BH Ministry, we have never officially received the text of the proposed law in question but we have reached it in an unofficial manner. The basic Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH entered into force on 01.01.2000. It is a law that is in line with international standards and aims to resolve the status and other BH citizens who have been displaced within BiH or have fled outside BiH. As such, the law did not cover the position of foreigners in any of its provisions or refugees in BiH, for example, as explained here, refugees from the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not then, and it can't even be contained in this law now. Also, the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH in 2000 regulates the important thing to know, the law did not resolve property issues in its essence, the regulation only provided BH to citizens with rights and standards prescribed by international conventions and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Specific property issues are regulated by the relevant property regulations that are within the authority of BiH entities. I mention, not long ago, we intervened on a fundamental regulation in the spirit of our expressed commitment through the strategy for the realization of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. He hasn't had that in two months. The amendments and additions provided for in this way, if we read them as they are written, should be our commitment. It concerns BiH citizens, and it is impossible to incur implications under this norm and citizens of other states. From the delivery, there is the possibility of half-merition by reason of the law offered, the justification and the text of amendments offered and the additions are fully diversified. They're related to two different substances. We can understand the explanation in terms of criticism of certain norms and indignation by applying the same norms from entity property regulations. Since the argument is not an ingredient, the law is what we can only say the wrong incentive for you to discuss the charger, the proposed amendments and the doubles of the law, and as such it is completely irrelevant, it should be completely ignored. On the spirit of the standard of intervention on Article 19, the re-promotion of the universally acceptable principle, following the removal of this misunderstanding, the envoys of this High House, will give their final judgment and determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1991	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinović. I think you answered, Vonko Radovanović, again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1992	Ladies and gentlemen, it's only a brief reference to what the gentleman last said. That's exactly what I was gonna say. So here we are discussing the proposed member of the amendment and the addition of the law, not the argument. Therefore, let us not call upon an explanation to challenge a member. We vote on this member and, of course, that member concerns BiH citizens. We can't pass a law that applies to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1993	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Halid Genjac. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1994	And by reason and without reason, the member also refers to nationals of another country, where it is said when the other Contracting Party is placed at the disposal of its replaced assets. It's not a problem for me that the court will be in charge, but these are contracts that were made in two states and what if two courts in two states have different opinions. It's just one question that can come up. The law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH is the title of the law. So all persons who have escaped from BiH and internally displaced to BiH are all citizens of BiH. The issue of BiH citizens and their property rights, displaced and refugees, has been fully resolved by property laws. This provision, which introduces quite fogs in the Refugees Act, will make it difficult to apply property laws, not in a way that introduces the justice needed to resolve interstate agreements, but in a way that impairs the process and interferes with the implementation of property laws. And that is why I continue to believe that this law is very unacceptable and I really demand that it be established why the competent minister and the competent ministry, did not get this bill at the time when it came to parliamentary procedure, because there are a lot of questions here and for the competent ministry which is the number of persons. In the conversations I had with the bill promoter, he told me it was about six people. Media have claimed that there are tens of thousands of people. The ministry is supposed to have that information, and the ministry does not know about the law that directly came from their jurisdiction to the House, until the final adoption was previously adopted at the House of Representatives. And I pray, therefore, to determine where he is, that these problems may not be repeated to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1995	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? I'll put it to a vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1996	If there are no further discussions, and rather from the vote as provided by the Rules of Procedure, the Bosniak People's Delegation Club, based on Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly make a statement which considers the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees to be destructive in the vital interests of Bosniak and I think other peoples for the following reasons. Under one, it contributes to maintaining the consequences of ethnic cleansing in BiH, under two, derivating an entire set of property laws that are of vital interest to implement Annex VII, the Framework Peace Agreement in BiH, and the Three, are not enforceable because it presupposes the activities of other state institutions, for which we are not in charge. Please carry out further proceedings in accordance with the business provisions, here is the signature of the required number of delegates from the Bosniak People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u1997	Thank you very much. We have the power to vote for the law. 22 [[Common discussion]] Thank you very much. We'll take a break for 10-15 minutes. We'll take a break for lunch. So an hour. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2000	I would like to see this, since an objection has been made, in terms of vital interest, the debate should now be held on a statement of vital national interest, in accordance with Article 134(3). After the debate, the session is interrupted on this issue is interrupted for 24 hours, and within that time, representatives of the Bosniak, Croatian, Serbian people, it does not matter who it is, should object if they consider it necessary to object. If no objection is made, this shall be declared, a statement or a question shall be made. If the application is made, then within 5 days, the Commission of Members appointed from each club by one member who tries to find a solution should meet. For now, I think that, please, ________ That committee will go out in the field and go to the Constitutional Court. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2001	To go to the Constitutional Court, to 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2002	So here we heard, complete procedure. Does anyone have anything to add, any opinion on the procedure? I don't think I should, but here's the line for asking. I'll put it on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2003	I just need to warn you of one thing. I don't know if I'm right, but I think I am, so I answered my word. Article 4e) The Constitution, on the basis of which these articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Secretary of the House have been elaborated, does not know this period of 24 hours after the hearing has been terminated. So, the debate on the statement, and then the end of the debate at 24 hours, that within those 24 hours of the Rules of Procedure, an objection can be made within the deadline. Article 4f) (e) says that the House, which will require and most of it, will need the consent of most of the bošnjački, Croatian or Serbian delegates in the House, so on the statement. And then in the event of opposition from any majority, any nation, this is about the Joint Commission, which within 5 days, so there will be no 24 hours, offer a solution and refer to the House for discussion, if there is no such solution, then it will immediately go to the Constitutional Court. So, the regulations of the Rules of Procedure that we now change, and we're going to fix, seem to be out of line with these provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2004	We have, Mr Filipović, hello, hello, we have a comment from the secretary and I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2005	I am on the stand that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are not contrary to the Constitution, for the simple reason that I believe it was necessary to give a certain period first, in which the envoys will be able to declare whether they dispute the question or not. That's one thing. It's another thing. In the Rules of Procedure, it is right in the Constitution that the President of the House will immediately convene a joint committee. However, I do not know how the House Chairman will call his commission if no members of the committee are appointed, and members of the commission should generally choose the clubs of the people, and hence the request is addressed to the clubs of the people and that the clubs of the people still leave out the possibility that they should give their representative, not only this, to the president of the home to decide, to call on which committee they will call, if there are no names. That's my opinion. And I think really businessmen' provisions are not contrary to the Constitution because I think that for some things, when doing this Rules of Procedure I took part in it, I think that some things still have to be set by a certain deadline, in order for the envoys to be able to manifest themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2006	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2007	A kolega Filipović has fenced himself, not so sure, but I think the Rules of Procedure have specified what the Constitution says. To educate attention to point e) in Article 4. The Constitution. The proposed decision in this case is the Bill on Amendments of the Law, can be declared a destructive policy of interest for the Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian people, most of the votes in the order of Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian delegates. It's done, isn't it? Most Bošnjak objected, etc. Such a proposed decision will have to be approved, so that is the law because the proposed decision, in this case, will have to be approved in the House by most Bosniak, Croatian, Serb delegates present. However, point f) speaks when most Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian delegates comment on calling for a paragraph e), so in this case Bošnjak are calling for a paragraph e) but some club may call for an appeal to the paragraph. E, there is no voting in that case, the case is interrupted, in which case a written objection must be lodged within 24 hours, and the Commission shall then try to agree. If it does not agree then, within 5 days, that Commission shall, if it does not agree with the Commission, all go to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, at this point, it is only relevant whether any of the clubs are announcing an objection. If announced, he is obliged to deliver it in writing within 24 hours and after receiving the College’s objection, or the House should act to appoint a committee that will try to find a solution. If he does not find a solution, we can also conduct a debate which the Rules of Procedure has been elaborated to discuss the very statement of vital interest, it is not disputed. The most important question, however, is whether a club is announcing an objection. If no objection is made, it shall be suspended and deadlines shall be given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2008	Thank you very much. I think so. So now he's on, here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2009	This is all that's been said, I'm not going to say it again. However, I will say where I am in doubt, whether the Rules of Procedure have been completely abolished with the Constitution. And that's when you set a deadline in 24 hours, so I'm interested in my question, not in clarity, what's a 24-hour deadline. Is it up to or from. It's not before, it's up to the deadline. Furthermore, I also think that this is one clumsy or poor non-accuracy and otherwise I think it's even unnecessary. Why? 25 I will read again as I understand the point e. (a) The second sentence "for such a proposed decision in the House of Peoples will require the consent of most Bosniak, most Croatian and most Serbian delegates who are present and who are voting". I understand this in a way that says it immediately. That's how I understand it. The Constitution in 4e) so I'm going to read this one more time as I understand it. So under a) - ee) second sentence (a) Such a proposed decision at the home of the people will require the consent of most Bosniak, most Croatian and most Serbian delegates who are present and who vote. So we can immediately know whether we're going down to this f) or not. If we have a need to address the Commission of 3 members, it is said again that the Constitution has again been said how, so the deadline has been said, etc. So I understand that, so there's no need to delay anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2010	Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2011	Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see anything that the Rules of Procedure don't comply with the Constitution. Point e) speaks of one situation, and point f) speaks of another situation. So point e) speaks of the expressed vital interest and immediately after that unless someone has challenged that statement goes to the vote. So that's one thing and that's the point of e. Point f) is developing a second situation. So if any other club challenges that statement, how is it done in that case? So it's all clear to me. Business is not that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, the only thing that I need is for me to define more precisely the Rules of Procedure than the Constitution, and it is normal to set one deadline for the establishment of a commission, because if I stay to form a commission without a deadline, it can take 100 days, it can take forever to form a commission. And it's normal for the Rules of Procedure to set one deadline. Maybe this little inaccuracy from and to, but we know that in our language to do something within three days, that means it's within that three days, and not from three days on. It's more specific to say up to 3 days, but this is, I don't think it's imprecise, because it means linguistically that this is the 24-hour deadline in which to object to...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2012	Thank you very much. I mean, here we are a long time ago, we've long since realized that our Rules of Procedure has been flawed, and that's why we said let's go finish it, let's do it. Clearly, the Rules of Procedure are a document that would have to explain the matter unequivocally and regulate the fact that there are no these doubts, is this, not this. 26 But what is important at this point when it comes to this objection, we now need to make clear whether any of the clubs, what is important, will submit an objection and again whether this is an objection. And do we need to know first, please ____(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] First of all, we have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2014	That's exactly what my colleague Filipović threw at me. f) goes after e is exhausted). No f), no skipping parts e) and going to f). That's how I see it. So do point e) and then go to f) and then say again in f) what happens. The opposition shall be understood as disagreement based on the result of the vote referred to in point (f) of point (f) of point (f).
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2015	Come on, Genjac. Let's see, let's get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2016	Please sometimes some practice in application can help. He is right, colleague Jukić, when he talks about the point e) and the procedure of the point e. And it is fully applied to both the first and second points of view unless no one announces an objection to the call for vital interests. In the Constitution it is called an objection, in our Rules of Procedure. It's the same thing. So, e) we could spend it in case none of the clubs announced an objection and denied the possibility of objections. It may be approached by a vote which must be held as it states, but if a club announces an objection, or an objection, the procedure applies exceptional. It's really like that. And another thing. Rock, please. But f) immediately predicted the situation if someone announced an objection. He announced the situation and the solution to the situation, resolved the situation if someone announced an objection, because e) only treats the situation when there is no objection. That's why. Please, as far as the deadline is concerned, in our language there is a term to, from, not less, etc. In this case, it is exactly as it was written to the objector 24 hours is left for 24 hours, 24 hours, 24 hours. So ______(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Yes, it is. Just a minute. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2018	The MP, the Rules of Procedure, is a specific matter, a constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2019	The very possibility of making objections to the call for vital interest which is indisputable in the Constitution, in the Constitution, is an undeniable call for and release of the remark. As soon as the possibility is allowed to make an observation to the Rules of Procedure is, the Constitution has not set a time limit in which it is, the Rules of Procedure have specified that the deadline and the Rules of Procedure is, however, an act adopted at the House and he, I think, must be respected until it is changed. Thus, the possibility of making an observation must also be prescribed within the time limit, for it cannot take a moment, nor can it last forever. There must be a time limit in which a written objection should be made. I think we got some big dilemmas here. I think it should be really obvious whether a club announces an objection, or an objection, and then that within 24 hours, exactly 24 hours is left at the disposal of the club to write, hear and deliver it within 24 hours. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2020	Here's to Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2021	Mr. Chairman of the Club of Serbian Delegates, within the scheduled business period of 24 hours, is objecting to a statement by the Bosniak Delegates Club and to shorten this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2022	Thank you very much. So this is where we break up with this point. Please, I'm not finished. Here we interrupt on this agenda point and continue to work _________(?) [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] No, the debate on the statement was won, concluded by the conclusion that you are the objector and the end. Please. Let's keep working. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2025	Please. The objection has been announced. So we are not done with this, but only by our own announcement we wanted to shorten the unnecessary controversy about the Rules of Procedure and the consistency of the Rules of Procedure with the Constitution, and in that sense it was announced, the announcement of the objection. And my opinion is that the announcement did not interrupt the debate on the statement provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Please. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2026	Okay. So, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2027	Can I have a word right away?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2028	You can do it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2029	We want to make our views public about the statement. A debate about a statement. I don't see any real reason why they wouldn't tell me publicly that we think that these arguments and the reasons mentioned in the statement don't stand, Sub 1. It contributes to maintaining the consequences of ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also talked about it last time, and our opinion is that, on the contrary, the amendment of this law does not contribute to ethnic cleansing, but not to the adoption of this law contributes to ethnic cleansing, because not the adoption of the law reduces the possibility of people returning to their own. Because it's nice here to make it possible to return to those who can't return to their property. Another thing that assumes the functioning of other state institutions. I don't see anywhere in this member mentioning any other state, any other, if we ignore the argument. And we agreed we wouldn't consider the argument. So the amendment and supplementation of the Law does not mention any other state or other citizens. We therefore believe that these reasons set out in this statement do not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vinko. Is anyone else answering for word? The Genjac I think meant to say how much I saw. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2031	It is procedurally very important that all the hearings on this issue be respected for the reason that the case will obviously end up in the Constitutional Court. And we should have this debate and I respect the argument and respect my colleagues, but I remain in the Bosniak Club's assessment that since the proposed changes in the law open a series of issues and ambiguities, it will not contribute to the return and resolution of the situation, but will contribute to the accumulation of unclear issues and thus to the retention of the existing situation. The second thing, indeed, is if one who has escaped from Croatia, so it is now, say, in Banja Luka, to make available the disputed property in Croatia, or the apartment, or the house, and let's assume that these apartments, meanwhile, are placed in different laws of the neighbouring country, it really implies that this depends on what the institutions of another country will say, what they will do that it might call for the application of this article. For these reasons, I remain in the assessment that the proposed change will bring many situations into dispute for reasons that different courts in two different states will have different opinions, sometimes contradictory and will ask the question of who is relevant. Because it really is the citizens of the two states. Property that's in the area of two states. Just because it is property in the area of the two states, it assumes that the institutions of the two states and other states act, so that the law can be applied. Of course, that's an argument that we, as well as the club that challenged the complaint in detailed form, will deliver to the Constitutional Court. I would still ask, perhaps it would be good, as the Constitution predicts, since a complaint has already been announced, and it will undoubtedly be delivered within the intended time limit to take advantage of the time and to immediately appoint a committee for reconciliation. Because after the complaint, the commission has the possibility of reaching agreement or not reaching agreement. If you fail to reach a committee of consent, then within the scheduled time limit a complete case goes to the Constitutional Court. I think that would be practical.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2032	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2033	Dear President, dear colleagues, just one more explanation. We've come to one situation, not by our own free will, I see it that way, neither, nor the other, nor the third club, but simply different arches that have been conducted by the international community here. We, no one here has said it publicly, I say it now, because they are completely different, the international factor in solving the exact same problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Other laws have been passed in the Republic of Croatia, allowing them to do so in a certain way, in Bosnia and Herzegovina it has been done differently and here Dr Halid Genjac is absolutely right when he claims what the consequences are. And I also think that it would be very fair for the citizens of both countries to pass laws that will be harmonised, and not different, and in this way, in fact, at the expense of BiH citizens, the issue of Srbin in BiH who came from Croatia by their own free will and how they came, that's 30 other things whether. We know that. For this reason, we must say here that for the first time we have come into a situation to draw vital national interest, not because of the wishes or mistakes of us here, but because of the different arches of the international community, and I think this can only be solved when the same arches are applied and when it can be solved in another way, because we cannot influence a solution in another country, but the international community can and in any case I think it is social to influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2034	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Šiljegović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2035	I'm giving up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2036	Why Šiljegović?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2037	/He didn't come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2038	Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2039	I think it's pretty clear to me at this point. I think we must act in accordance with the Constitution, which says that the chairman will immediately, as stated in point (f), call on the Joint Commission. To summon her, she needs to be formed immediately. This gives us 24 hours and practically from the moment the commission is formed, it will be 5 days. In that sense, I support Mr. Genjac's proposal, because he's perfectly rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2040	Thank you very much. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2041	I suggest in front of the Bosniak delegates' club on Dr. Halid Genjac's committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2042	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2043	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I propose today until the end of this session, Mr. Vinko Radovanović, on all committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2044	Gentlemen, from the Croatian people, please. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2045	Mr. President, in front of the Croatian Club of Envoys, we propose to Mr. Ilija Filipović and for the next three others.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2046	Thank you very much. So, please repeat before the Bosniak people Mr. Genjac, in front of the Serb people, Mr. Radovanović, in front of the Croatian people, Mr. Filipović. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? So, all unanimous. Thank you very much. And now I think, gentlemen, have we exhausted the debate on this agenda point? So, for the time being, is it, today, and the Commission will respect the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work and do so within the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Here I am, proposing and moving to the ninth point of the agenda, and it's called Ad.9. Giving consent to ratification Proposal for a decision to ratify the Additional Protocol to the Warsaw Doping Convention on 12 September 2002 Report of the Commission you received. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this Agreement at its 29th session held on 12.02.2004. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. I'm putting this ratification agreement to the vote. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much, colleagues. The second item of the agenda is Ad.10. Giving consent to the ratification proposal for a decision on ratification of the Supplemental Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and BiH You have received a report from the Commission responsible. The House of Representatives also adopted this proposal at this session since 12.02.2004. I'm opening the door. And is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, no one. 32 I am putting the motion for a decision on ratification on the vote. Who's in? So unanimous. Thank you very much. The 11th item of the agenda is Ad.11. A report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity of BiH for 2003 has been received by the Commission. The House of Representatives received the report and I am opening the debate now. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2047	Just because there's no President of the Commission here right now. We discussed this on the Commission and also suggested that it be accepted for knowledge.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2048	Thank you, Osman. So that's our Commission whether, this House has been discussing and proposing that this be accepted. Since the Commission has done all this well, I propose to this House that we accept the State Regulatory Commission's report on electricity for 2003. Who's in? Thank you very much. [[Common discussion]] Great, thank you. Resolution on the exercise of pensioner rights, well, do we agree to put this as the final point of the agenda? Okay, an excellent motion for a resolution on the exercise of the pensioner's right to return to the Federation of BiH, proposed by Mr Goran Milojević. You've reached the set of Resolution, you've received a report from the committee in charge. The new amendment was filed by Mr. Halid Genjac. Is anyone answering their word? Here you go, supplemental amendment, new amendment of what the hell. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2050	We respected colleagues, part of the debate on this Resolution, have already carried out in the adoption of the agenda, and I do not think there is a need to repeat everything that has been said. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has been considering this Resolution. Unfortunately, in the absence of the promoter, which may have made it a little difficult for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to work. I had reservations and remarks on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that we couldn't know if they were acceptable because there were no promoters there. In the meantime, from the Federal Pension Insurance Office, a day or two ago, a text came in that I think was delivered today, I mean to all delegates. And in that information, all the most relevant information about this question is listed in the way it really is, how it really stands and what the chances are. So there, among other things, it was said that pension disability insurance in BiH since 92 and today is based on the principle of ongoing coverage of obligations. In fact, among generation solidarity, this means that insurance companies that pay contributions to pension disability insurance do not pay those funds to cover their rights, at a time when they use them, but are covered by current contributions. This also means that current liabilities are not covered by some previous payments, but also current liabilities are covered by current payments. It noted that on 31 March 2000 an agreement was reached between the Public Fund for Pension Disabilities Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the holder of the Pension Disabilities Insurance in the Federation of BiH, there were two. An agreement on mutual rights and obligations has therefore been reached. After entity governments agreed on it, it became applicable since 18 May 2000. That agreement was concluded in order to split pension liabilities, between insurance insurance providers and to ensure the protection of pension pension insurance rights for pensioners in BiH. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: So, all those who received pensions from the RS Fund, under that agreement, continued. All those who received from the Federation insurance company continued. That was the deal. The Federal Institute for Pension Disability Insurance is still following this Agreement, no other agreement has been drawn up and an agreement must be made between the two parties in order to be relevant. In February 2002, however, the RS government unilaterally agreed to the director for the unilateral termination of the said Agreement, which was never officially notified by the Federal Pension invalidity Insurance Office. That decision was adopted by the House of Human Rights in the context of the application of six applicants and as indicated in this information from the Pension Federal Insurance Fund, according to them, that decision was named after applicants. And as indicated here, the Federal Fund has fulfilled its obligations to those applicants within the time limit set by the Court of Human Rights. Following the adoption of the House of Human Rights Decision in those cases, about 15 thousand 34 pensions from the Federal Bureau of Pensions who are now being paid into RS were submitted to the Federal Pensions Authority. No Federation user has submitted a request for pension payment to the RS Pension Insurance Fund. The reason is the difference in pension levels, as in July 2003, the average pension in the Federation was 50.8% higher than the average pension in RS. Of course, the contribution rate, which insurance companies must pay from their salaries to RS, was 24% and 35% in the Federation. So there's more to be paid here, those who work here and who are Osibourans, they pay more and that's why they're slightly bigger pensions. The Federation of BiH considers that the agreement on mutual rights that I have stated, concluded between pension-involvement insurance holders, still needs to be applied because no new agreement has been made. The International Monetary Fund is involved in this problem which is really huge and they have some ideas to restructure problems in this fund, and one and the other fund because it is really a big and very difficult issue. For these reasons, I have suggested that we reconsider the question, because this allows Article 90. Our Rules of Procedure, which states that the House may request under 3rd point 3 that the House may request the Commission to draw up a new report on a resolution law or a case based on new facts within 15 days. I thought it was a better solution to make another attempt to conform, in spirit and with all this information try to find a solution acceptable to everyone. The solution is not accepted, this option is not accepted, I think it is a pity, because the actual introduction, the possibility that the resolution calls for the introduction of 15 thousand new users into one fund, not to increase the contributions to this background, to increase the number of users found as one-sided, indeed inevitably means not the safety of pensioners in the Federation, the possibility of not making regular payments because it is necessary to fill the fund for the new 15 or 20 thousand users in conditions when and with the current number each month the question of whether enough funds for the fund has been raised. The issue is not simple at all, and this resolution does not question the proposing's intentions that they are quite appropriate, justified need to address this, but the proposed resolution will lead to a number of other problems by solving one problem. So that's all the reasons I suggested we postpone. The information of federal pension disability insurance really these facts, and they're like that, they're like that. Since the situation is as it is, because we are discussing the resolution, I have proposed an amendment to the Commission which we have not stated, which has been rejected for reasons of not being present, without entering such large procedures, without proposing, I have renewed that amendment and extended it using the provisions of Article 89(2) and point 3a). I will now, therefore, make that amendment extended, we have it copied to the MPs, and now I will only, or delegates here, read it at this time, and I would ask that we also declare the amendment. 35 So, in accordance with Article 89(2) and point 3a of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I submit an amendment to the Proposal for a Resolution on the exercise of the right of the pensioner to return to the Federation of BiH, Amendment I Pod (a) The title of the resolution is changed and reads as follows: The resolution on the exercise of the right of the pensioner to return to BiH. So, not only in the Federation and RS, as in the Resolution, but in BiH. Under b) The text of the Resolution is changed and reads: In order to overcome a number of problems of returnees in BiH and in general the difficult state of pensioners in BiH, the House of People calls on the Council of Ministers to approach the work and deliver the Pension Disability Insurance Act at BiH level in parliamentary procedure. The law should regulate the establishment of single instruments for financing pension disability insurance and the establishment of institutions for the implementation of pension disability insurance at the level of the BiH state. I really think this is how this issue can be resolved in co-operation with the International Monetary Fund and through donations from the World Bank of the International Credit Fund, etc. With this text, the text of the resolution and this approach, the question that really exists, can be solved but found to be a solution rather than an introduction to new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2051	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm asking one thing. I forgot this one, let it be a mistake for me, forgive me. On this subject, the debate of the MPs is limited to whether, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 115 of our Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes, and the applicant of the initiative is entitled to a discussion of 20 minutes. So we don't have to drag that out forever, that's why we stick to it. Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac spoke for exactly 10.5 minutes when this amendment was taken, but he took this amendment extended. Radojević, did you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2052	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not use all 10 minutes, since there is not much dispute in this resolution for me. The House of Human Rights has undisputedly established a violation of human rights in several cases, and it is not disputed and I think we neither need nor can debate it. In my opinion, the aim of this resolution is that these uncontested human rights are extended to the rest of the population to which these 5 applicants apply to the House of Human Rights and nothing more. 36 In my opinion, there may be little and inappropriate discussion about the financial effects of human rights enforcement. Please, does human rights have a price? And can human rights be limited to five applicants? He can't. Therefore, the aim of this resolution is only to expand this uncontested human right to the entire population. And I really don't see anything that's controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2053	Thank you very much. Goran Milojević, here you go, Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2054	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I really think that today is the time when we should make a statement about this resolution and that we have, that this text that I have proposed and which has passed the legally envisaged procedure is enough, that we should make a statement about it, so let's see. Apparently, these discussions, I expect that this will not get enough support and that this resolution will not be adopted, which I am very sorry, but I would like to highlight the human aspects that have led me to submit this resolution. So here I am, shortly after the points, saying that the proposal for the text of the resolution states that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports the decisions of the House of Human Rights. That the House of Peoples requires that the government and the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH immediately and without delay act on that decision by the House of Human Rights. In order to apply that decision to the House of Human Rights by the Government and the competent authorities of the Federation directly and automatically to all pensioners of returnees, without chicane and illegal pre-conditions which can only be exercised under the abovementioned judicial or other administrative procedure. That the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH considers it extremely important to establish legal certainty throughout BiH. This letter sent by the Federal Fund is a letter to little children of men. They vulgarized the House of Human Rights decision. I've spoken in the adoption of the agenda, I don't want it to repeat itself, this right can't be applied to 5 people, not to all those who have that human right. As soon as these poor pensioners earned it, that's how they treated them. Here I am, unless this resolution is adopted, I call on pensioners to use all the legal means to exercise their rights. We will have the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg at our disposal. The pensioners will simply convince me to win this dispute in court. The game is, here's what I dare say, it's the Federal Bureau's game of respecting what his job is, because a large number of people are going to die. They will disappear from the face of the earth and from their payroll, which is indeed inappropriate and undeserved. I will never accept that in a resolution whose signature I am, I am calling on the Council of Ministers to reorganise the Pension Fund. I have no intention, because my motives are human rights. The current funds' obligations are known, and I'm just asking for them to be respected until the end. The 37 PIO Federation of BiH Fund is calling for an agreement signed with an analogue fund in RS in 2000. The fund is extremely harmful to the PIO RS Fund and the government rightly broke it up unilaterally last year, because there is no agreement, because the BiH PIO Federation simply does not want to throw it out, as a fish gets away with every time this very important issue is put on the agenda. I really do, I expect that you will still find understanding of the difficult position of these people in this situation and that you will support this decision, that is, this resolution in this text as proposed in this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2055	Thank you, Goran. He answered the word Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2056	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I think of a single syntagma that a friend of mine told me in the '90s. It's all true, but it's not true, so I wondered how it was possible for it to be all true without it being true again. This is all true what Mr. Goran was saying to my dear colleague and colleague. Indeed, the issue of pensioners in BiH is great. I wouldn't just say that in the space of one entity or another, but in the space of both entities. In no entity, pensioners are resolved in the way they should be resolved, as they deserve by their work, by their attitude towards work while working, etc. It's as clear as a white day to all of us. So the problem is on BiH level. Furthermore, the problem is very clear here, the main problem is the amount of resources that is allocated in both entities. And we know, just before here, Dr. Genjac explained that, in fact, the funds are being allocated from the current, current flow of funds, not what today's pensioners used to do and earn. We know that this evaluation of separation in one entity and in another entity differs significantly. So 24 in one entity and 36 in another, that's a big difference and it's clear to us this, Mr. Goran, that whatever you said here is true, but it's also true that the political problem is that. That's not a settled question at the state level. Here, with this resolution, I'm scared, and I wouldn't want any part of it. To transfer the problem from one entity to another entity's problem. One way to dissipate one fund and load another fund. The fact that one fund will be disbursed will remain a major asset for the people of that entity, which is normal for those who would remain in a smaller entity to receive these funds, would have bigger pensions. This is where pensions would be reduced. Whether I want to admit it or not, there's no one resources enough that you can't feel it. Because I think it's a complete problem for every pensioner in BiH. And because we shouldn't, we should be so correct, that we don't transfer the ball to each other to create a problem, but to solve a problem together at the state level. That is why Mr Genjac's amendment is acceptable to me, because that is the problem with this resolution, and if we adopt it, it does not solve it, it just makes it difficult. I'm not for problems to be brought together but to be solved, and I think that this should be resolved at the level of the state for every pensioner and for every citizen of this country to bring some things to some level. So I'm not just ready to complicate the problem, to keep the problem insecure, but I'm just so that in package 38, it's resolved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I'll certainly be for this amendment that Doctor Genjac has proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2057	Thank you very much. Do we have any further debaters? A genius. Ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2058	It's very short since there have been calls to some of the accentes from my discussion. Please, let me get this straight. Don't let us report here on human rights and the universality of human rights and respect for human paves. I don't know if I can allow anyone to lecture me about it, whether they respect it or not, or if I want to give it to anyone. I absolutely agree that human rights have no price. But please say that in the PIO RS Fund where human rights is only 24%. When the price of human rights is right there, then there will be assumptions that we will universally resolve human rights throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the point, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2059	Thank you. Is anyone still picking up? Mr. Tomo Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2060	I'm going to try to think more about getting out of this situation, by my assessment in one way that will give us all a chance to be initiators of a new one, I'd say reform of the pension system. I congratulate my colleagues from the Serbian Club of Envoys who put this issue on the agenda and put us in a position that we really cannot discuss at all whether we are in favour of implementing decisions or judgment of the Court of Human Rights. So there's no dilemma for me at all, and I don't want to talk about it, and I don't think that resolution is going to be that language on the scale that's going to make it possible to satisfy interests. However, I call on colleagues who are behind this resolution, first of all fellow Milojević, and I suggest that we, with the adoption of the resolution, establish a conclusion, i.e. two conclusions. The first conclusion, which reads -- with the aim of systematically solving the problem of pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina, obliges the Council of Ministers to submit the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act at Bosnia and Herzegovina level within 6 months of the parliamentary procedure. And another conclusion, of course, assuming that this is adopted – that this conclusion is passed along with the resolution and the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has already declared this, but to inform him that we did, is assuming that we adopted her. So let us strengthen that conclusion in terms of initiative or the Council of Ministers' task to come out. I know that this reform is not simple, but when we have to go seriously into it, no matter how much it costs, it puts us in a position to deal with the relevant international entities that have shown their will, but to help us in terms of solving this problem in a quality and serious way and 39 we find the right solutions without any idea what this reform is going to be less and any other reform will be difficult, and in the end none of them are without fault. Thank you very much. So I ask you to make this conclusion to the House members, of course, assuming that the resolution is adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2061	Mr. Limov, please, I'm going to take the opportunity to ask you to write that conclusion so you don't paraphrase it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2062	I wrote this first one, and the second one I didn't get to write. However, it is also simple to inform the House of Representatives to strengthen this activity, because of course if, without the appropriate attitude of the House of Representatives, there is no talking about reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2063	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? He's not answering. By some logic, we should do it first, after this, if we were to vote on these amendments to Mr. Genjac. I think all MPs have received, please, this amendment. Here you go, Filipovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2064	I'll just take a minute. Since this resolution was on the Constitutional and Legal Committee and I had already said before the break, I am sorry that we did not have an authorised proposing committee, a respected colleague of Milojević, and we have received some kind of mpva of knowledge that, whether or not someone liked it, has raised some questions in relation to some new position of the material obligations of the Federal Pension Insurance Fund. Here's what the promoter said. We know the content of the text of the resolution and it is unequivocal and I repeat again from the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission we have accepted this resolution most of the votes. So the text of the resolution is undoubtedly on the trail of defence in this home to try to defend what the House of Human Rights has ordered the Federal Pension Insurance Fund against the performances of a certain number of persons. Here, we have now seen from this letter from the Fund that this figure is being adjusted, increased, that it creates a burden and a commitment to the fund. We've heard Mr. Lim's opinion here now. At no point do I think this house should make any decision that would be contrary to the House of Human Rights. So that's not what I'm thinking. To seek a compromise in relation to the proposed text of the resolution and all that Mr. Genjac put forth, what we heard from Mr. Lim and what I'm going to try to say, so that would be somewhere on the trail of our duty, our duty of our reflection, without any bid on the price of human rights to anyone and anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 40 So we can't talk about it. So the price of human rights doesn't exist. So we're going to give everything, we're going to do everything we can to protect these human rights in an identical way at every square inch of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We need to look and we need to look, we need to look for a solution for this population, retirement, retirement, whatever you want in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter what fund their poor little pension was fed from. Whether it's from the RS Fund or from the Federation Fund. So these efforts to improve the position of pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina absolutely we must invest here. Let's invest them through a compromise on the adoption of this resolution and, with its correction in terms of improving the situation of all pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would therefore appeal to Mr Milojević and, at the same time, to Mr Genjac, because I think that, in the first case, by accepting the amendments and that the name of the revolution, I apologize, the resolution therefore changes, that it applies to all the pensioners of returnees throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is about to echo the wording of the resolution in that direction and I don't think it would be contentious to accept it by Mr Milojević. At the same time, he would be very grateful to Mr Genjac if Amendment I under b) changed, redefine that this is not the whole content of the resolution, because point b) is sought and the practical text of the resolution reads these two sentences. I would suggest that it be the point of Mr. Milojević's sixth resolution. And by doing so, we would come up with a compromise solution in which this would still come into the resolution. It would not be a conclusion as Mr Limov said, we would get a resolution, we would have an obligation to respect return rights, regardless of where those returnees from which Bosnia and Herzegovina are from and at the same time open one way to unify these pensions of all pensioners throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina by opening the process and encouraging the Council of Ministers to propose such a law at the state level. Thank you very much. I forgot I was authorized by the president of the club that if there were no more debates, after I asked for a break on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, and then to join the pleas. The stop wouldn't be longer than 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2065	Thank you very much. Here's to letting Goran Milojević
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2066	Okay, and I'm here to find a solution. For me, for example, it is acceptable from Mr Genjac's amendment to this (a) part of a) - a resolution on the exercise of the pensioner's right to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I would not in this section b), I would not prejudge how, in which way, a better solution will be found, or how the reform of the pension system in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be implemented, and here, I could now agree with this first part of the sentence in which it is written – in order to overcome the numerous problems of returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina, in general, the difficult state of pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina, call on all the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to get 41 involved in finding, now we lack a word, a better solution, let's say, to solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2067	They're the most responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2068	We can count them, but they're not just for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2069	Well, you can't have Gorane in the Republic of Serbia, the PIO Fund you've disbanded. It's not who's in charge, so you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2070	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2071	Everyone in charge, so are they. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2072	I don't think everyone in charge can equalize themselves with the Council of Ministers, because simply everyone in charge, each shooting in his own direction. I suggest a 15-minute break, 15 minutes. The presidents of clubs with the promoter would like to make a deal on how we're going to do it. I think it's time to get started. [[PAUZA]] I believe that the presidents of the clubs of MPs and Mr. Milojević have agreed either have a solution or what they have agreed to hear what we continue to do, because whether or not there has been any improvement and reflection on this declaration in a narrow circle. I'm asking you to let us know. Here comes Mr. Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2073	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, we have not fully agreed on any compromise. There is something that I am as a motion for a resolution ready to do, and that is to add a point 6 that is going to be precisely understood by Mr Filipović. It seems to me that there is no willingness for Mr. Genjac to adopt this point, so here we might suggest that both its amendment and the amendment, that is, this compromise that we have, which two or three sides have achieved, and let's see how that goes. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2074	Thank you. Do we have any further? Mr. Genjac, will you take your word for it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2075	I don't have anything special to say new. And with the addition in the resolution along with the rest of the other members, among other things from Article 3 who explicitly explicitly imposes new obligations on the federal pension fund from the new 15 to 20,000 pensioners who are unable to meet the fund, I really cannot accept it, because I am not inclined to make a resolution that will not be enforceable. That is why I propose that my amendments be put to the statement, and my colleague, Filipović, will make the amendment the way it is, as he believes it could be installed in the resolution and, of course, we will also declare on that amendment and resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2076	Thank you. What do you mean? Ilija can do that? The thirteenth point of the Ad agenda. 13. The appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been submitted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency to the Decision establishing a candidate for the Ombudsman for human rights. For the Ombudsman, professor Dr Vitomir Popović was proposed, instead of Mrs Savić, who resigned. The House of Representatives appointed Professor Popović as the Ombudsman and has any objections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2077	I know Mr. President that what I'm about to say will not affect the final outcome of the vote, but I really can't say next. Of course, I will not vote in favour of the election of the proposed candidate for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Human Rights Obstacle. The fundamental reason for my position is the fact that Mr. Vitomir Popović, as a member of the BiH Constitutional Court, votes against the equality of all three constituent nations in all of the territory. I do not believe that such a man can rightly do the duty of the Ombudsmen for human rights and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2078	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2079	I am disappointed with the fact that for such an honorable institution as the Ombudsmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a man who voted against the constitutionality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been proposed and I doubt that with such a past he will be able to carry out this extremely significant duty in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For these reasons, I cannot give a vote for this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2080	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Who's on the phone? Is there any further discussion? There isn't. Is Hilmo here a Genjac? Okay. So I'm putting an Ombudsman motion to vote. Who is it for Professor Vitomir Popović to be elected Ombudsman? Who's restrained? Who's against it? - 3 So 9 to the 3. So Mr. Vitomir Popović, please, appointed Ombudsmen, so Mr. Popović was appointed to the Ombudsman of Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. The 14th item of the agenda is Ad.14. The election of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe instead of Mr Hasan Muratović's parlamentaran House, Dom, was proposed and elected by Mr Elmir Jahić instead of Mr Muratović. I'm putting this proposal under discussion or discussion. Do we have any objections? Do we have a debate? Who's in favour of Mr Jahić being our representative in the Council of Europe? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Please nice 15th point is Ad.15. Replacement of members of the People's House of Investigation to determine the circumstances of Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić ja must tell you here that Mr Genjac, regardless of being elected by this home to the College, sent a letter thanking him for the election, because he says it was wrong to choose him in any body without his presence. Indeed, he was not present at the assembly and therefore mostly resigns from the election, and here we will now try to choose from the Bosniak people of another candidate. 44 Mr. Genjac, as president of the MPs' club, I believe you agreed at the club on that replacement and whether there was a speech. Do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2081	The club was looking into this today and decided to propose that Mr. Brka be elected to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2082	Thank you very much. Osman, what's wrong with you? Buddy, vote against it. I'm putting on a motion to get Osman brkati into this commission instead of Mr. Genjac. Excuse me, please. Excuse me. I suggest we get rid of Mr. Genjac first, because this is the home he's made, he's made that decision. Who's for Mr. Genjac's release? Thank you. Unanimity. So who's against it? - Two abstentions? Thank you. I'm putting on a motion to vote, who is Osman Brka to be a member of this committee, an investigative committee? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? - 1 Who is abstention? There's no one here. Just because you're against it doesn't mean you won't be working on the board. Thank you. With this, we have exhausted this and the last item of the agenda and we are waiting for Mr. Filipović to come out with a new proposal. I'm hoping to compromise who we vote for. I have one thing to say that this should, please, end this process and that this should be a good and quality compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2083	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, we've already heard Mr. Milojević say. We tried to come up with a proposal for a solution acceptable to everyone. We have failed to do so, but we are on the trail of at least one solution that could satisfy that this House does not point its vote against the Human Rights Decision, which would give this resolution support in this House and, at the same time, by improving this text of resolution, we come up with some kind of solution through competent entity and state bodies. In this sense, and in the way I suggested it before this break, I advocate that the resolution bears the name as Mr Genjac said in his first 45 amendment – Resolution on the exercise of the right of pensioners, or pensioners, returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we accept the text of Resolution in order to add point 6 to it: - In order to overcome the numerous problems of returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in general the difficult situation of pensioners in BiH, and in the event of possible disturbances in the ordinary payment of pensions through the application of this resolution, the House of People calls on all competent state and entity institutions to find the most acceptable solution to the overall position of pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I was thinking of, of course, these relevant international money houses, in the first row of the World Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2084	That's what we heard. Here comes the word Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2085	The proposal that Doctor Genjac had with his amendment and what I said in my discussion does not oppose the decision of the House of Human Rights, because we ask that it be settled legally at the state level for all pensioners at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we are not opposed to the decision of the House of Human Rights, we are looking for a solution at the level of the state for all pensioners, because nowhere has it been solved in a satisfactory way. This way, with this resolution, which, improved by the amendment of Mr Filipović, which is the amendment, we leave item 3, which actually transfers the burden from one entity to another, which is inconclusive. That doesn't solve the problem at all, it just complicates it. I'm not in favour of making those attitudes and decisions that don't solve, but complicated the problems. Here, problems lie on the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina without a solution in sight. For me, the solution is the only legal framework at the level of the state that this country can bring only with the help of international and financial institutions from the IMF and others. And that's why I don't think it can be said that we're against the human rights decision if we feel that this should be resolved at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2086	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Here's Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2087	To avoid misunderstandings never and anywhere in the world, parliaments are not voting on whether or not to apply the decision of the human rights institution. The decisions of the homes for human rights are decisions that are being implemented. Voting on resolution or against resolution, voting on the content of the resolution or against the content of the resolution. And please don't confuse the concepts. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2088	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Radovanović. Here you go. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2089	The esteemed colleagues here are not imputing anyone that against the decision, against human rights, and I think we are pragmatic, we have these two proposals to make a statement about them and I am, as a proponent, ready so in terms of what Mr Filipović was talking about to be an integral part of the resolution under my name and, of course, I will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2090	Thank you very much. Any other objections? The Genjac put up an amendment in writing. I have to ask Mr. Genjac now, since there's been a new situation, does he stay with his amendments? So he stays the Genjac of his amendments. Didn't I hear? Therefore, we must now agree on a new situation and we will have what Goran has suggested, we will have what Mr Filipović has added, and we will have before that, because before these additions to Mr Genjac's amendment. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2091	We'll have mine and the Filipovićev together.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2092	/didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-02-26-0.u2093	Yes, it is. All right. Please, so that's how it is. Now I'm voting on the amendment, Mr. Genjac's first amendment. Someone took those amendments away from me. Excuse me, one amendment, it's a little different now, isn't it? I think, no matter what, should I read it? You all have these amendments. We will therefore vote in favour of the entire amendment that is divided into two sections (a) and (b). Who's for Mr. Genjac's amendment? Who's restrained? - 4 abstentions Who is against? - 5. Thank you very much. So Mr. Genjac's amendment didn't go through. 47 Who is for Resolution, please. Who is for the resolution that has been corrected for the embedded amendments, i.e. the resolution with the integrated amendments that Mr Filipović just read to us? Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? - and I'm against it. So the resolution was adopted with one vote against, one vote abstention and three against. So Goran Milojević's resolution was complemented for the gentleman's amendments, adopted. I thank you and want to announce, since we have some problems, and since the House, the Parliamentary Assembly passed the Security Service Act, we did not have this law on the agenda today, but we also agreed with international organisations to adopt that by 5th, that we adopt this law, and here I am, in both readings, and here I schedule the Assembly on March 5th at 11th. Thank you very much and have a safe trip. The session ended at 4:20 p.m.
