ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2094	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, respected representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all very much and open the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear gentlemen, there are 15 delegates attending the session today. Currently Mr. Spasojević is at a meeting, in principle he is present here. So, from the Bosniak club attends 5 representatives from the Croatian people 5 and from the Serb people 5. So everyone's here. For the 19th session, I suggest the next agenda, you received that agenda in the invitation for today's session, and I will ask you no matter what. First, 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Declaration by the People's House on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Mediation Procedure under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 3. Request for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 4. Request to consider the draft law on new amendments and additions to the BiH Prosecution Act under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 5. Request to consider the proposal for a law on new amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 6. Proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, 7. Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers, 8. Report on the BiH Law Department's work for the period 01.06 to 31.12.2003, 9. A conclusion on the need to draw up uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions, the draft Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, you heard the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Is there anyone to answer for? Here you are, if there are any debaters, there isn't. Thank you very much. 2 I'm sorry, in this point of the proposal for a law on the Intelligence Security Agency, is that, there is not a Council of Ministers' proposal, there I made a mistake. Here is the proposer of OHR, or High Representative. Do we have any further objections on the agenda? We don't. I'm putting the agenda to a vote. Who's for the proposed agenda? Thank you very much. So unanimous. We have the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions This, as far as I know, I don't think there were any answers to any delegate questions. I now call upon this delegate if they have any delegate questions to come out. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2095	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, representatives of BiH institutions, distinguished guests, representatives of the international community and public information funds, I welcome all of you together and want to take advantage of this opportunity, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and ask three parliamentary questions, of course to the Council of Ministers. Although in one part, it might be good for the BiH Psedition to say this. The questions are, firstly, who is responsible for the fact that no interstate agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia has been signed and ratified so far in connection with the use of the Port of Ploče and traffic through Neum? Secondly, what is the essence of the diversity of seeing the solution to the problem of Ploč and Neum on the part of BiH, i.e. on the part of the Republic of Croatia? And third, what is the position of the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency in relation to the RS government's plan to bypass Neum, by building a bridge that will connect the Dalmatian mainland with the Peljesac peninsula? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2096	Thank you, we've got a move on, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2097	Respected delegates, the presidency, distinguished guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives, as this point is business-regulated and as an issue and as an initiative, I want to launch an initiative. 3 I demand that at the next session of the House of Peoples, and preferably the joint session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, before 15 March, be put on the agenda the issue of holding municipal elections. With this initiative, I would like to draw attention to this high House and the public in general to the dramatic situation relating to the upcoming municipal elections. I argue that the situation is dramatic both with regard to legislation and with regard to the financing of municipal elections. Why? The 15th April elections need to be announced, all issues related to municipal elections must be fully regulated by 15 April. Thus, the adoption of amendments to the Electoral Law to reflect the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, the Law on Minorities and the representation of minorities, of course the financing of municipal elections, and what is also important, the role of the media in the electoral process in particular. The motion to amend the electoral law is in some version ready. We have a commission of both homes working on it. However, at this morning's session of the Commission, there were 15 foreigners and 1 member of the Joint Commission. This can be justified objectively by circumstances, however, it produces a crisis situation. By April 15th, it must be reached both at the commission stage and at home, the issue of amending the electoral law, so that elections can be announced. The situation, as I said, is dramatic and from a financial perspective, it takes 3 million and 200 KM to hold municipal elections. This morning, there were 7,000 marks on the election board's account. New Sarajevo paid, so now 57,000 marks are on the bill, with situations in municipalities very worrying. In fact, 55 municipalities have fully fulfilled their obligations. It brought a budget with what it takes to fund municipal elections, 45 municipalities did not anticipate the grant, 17 municipalities only partially and 6 municipalities did not adopt the budget at all, and 19 municipalities did not provide any information. Given the deadlines that are very short and the situation in which we are located, I think it is time to declare some sort of emergency and to do each of our jobs and the Council of Ministers and Joint Service on the calling of a tender for voting material in accordance with the legislation... that it must be done by domestic firms and, of course, resolution ministers. Otherwise, it can be very easy to announce in early April that municipal elections cannot be held, which would be disastrous for BiH this year in which it meets the conditions of the feasibility study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2098	Thank you. Here's a question I can answer, or I'd say the initiative. On 04.03.2004, the daily “Avaz” published a text entitled “BiH is becoming a regional haven of drug trafficking”, which was issued by the authors of the 2003 report on the state of narcotics and organised crime in the world as an alarming warning from the State Department. The author and signator of the report is the assistant U.S. Secretary of State for the count against narcotics and law enforcement, Mr. Robert Čarls. 4 Among other things, the text states that BiH has become a regional haven for drug dealers and their shipments. Furthermore, drug trafficking is an integral part of foreign and domestic activities and organised crime associated with certain corrupt officials. Although their names are not mentioned, these officials either tolerate or even support the activities of the drug mob. In particular, BiH is said to be a transit centre even storage for drugs arriving from neighbouring countries. I'm asking the Minister of Security, or the Department of Security, to check the information provided in the US Assistant Secretary of State's report on the fight against the drug mob and the law enforcement of Mr Robert Čarls. Furthermore, that the minister, or ministry of the competent institutions, should receive the exact names and last names of so-called corrupt officials as they are called in the text. Given that it is high time to know which officials are involved in supporting organised crime and drug trafficking. I can understand that in the report, Mr. Charles, given the occasions in which he was submitted, was not instructed to talk about specific names, but I think at this point, it is directed that the Minister of Security ask, learn and disclose the names of those officials. Thank you. Here's the secretary. Are there any more of these questions? Any more questions? So we've exhausted this agenda point. Moving to the second item of the agenda, Ad.2. Reporting to the House of Nations on a request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Mediation Procedure under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, please the representative of the Proposer, does he have it? Please, Deputy Minister Grubišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2099	I thank you, I welcome all gentlemen and ladies and to say, therefore, the Mediation Law is one newspaper in the BiH legal system. It is a newspaper that stems from the practices of developed countries. So things don't go to court. So these controversial things, rather than being able to mean in the mediation process, are resolved. In principle, it's the most similar thing we've ever had out of court one deal. So, and now this is being conducted under the professional supervision of the mediators who pass the exam and who are therefore authorized to do so. I think this law and this practice that is being introduced into BiH will therefore contribute to reducing the number of less controversial to say this, things in courts. The Suts will be relieved, that they will solve those important things and that this one, in the mediation process, will solve many issues, so I suggest that this law be passed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2100	So here we heard Mr. Grubišić's proposal is the initiative that this law be adopted by a shortened procedure. 5 Is there a debate whether or not, there is no. I would like to put a vote on the proposal that this law be adopted in a shortened manner, please, under a reduced procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. So unanimous. So this request for the law to be considered under a reduced procedure has been adopted. Let's move on to the third item of the agenda, Add.3. Request for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Rule 102(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, decides on the requirement for the law to be considered under this article after the debate. Here you go. The House of Representatives passed the law by emergency procedure. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? Here's the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2101	Dear colleagues, more for the public present here, I think it is necessary to say that on the agenda at point 3. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH refers to certain deadlines for meeting the required deadlines for programming deadlines. I think it's a law that doesn't have some high degree of complexity, and it's necessary for this synchronization of deadlines. I think we should support this request and pass this law by article 100 or by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2102	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here's me, after this Genie discussion, I think we all agree on this in principle. Any other objections? Who's in favour of this law being passed by an emergency procedure? - 14 So, the law, Hasane, did you vote? Then it's - 15. Mr. Spasojević, therefore abstention. Thank you very much. So we decided that this law, that this law had passed and was accepted to be discussed by an emergency procedure. At this point, I declare a break until how many gentlemen? I'd like 1:15 a.m. Thank you very much. 6 We continue to work after this break, so we have adopted this item of the agenda, a request for a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under Article 100. [[PAUZA]] We've adopted it, to discuss it by emergency procedure, and here's the situation for us to move on to the adoption of this law. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. Thank you very much. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who's to pass the law? Who's in? Thank you unanimously, so the Zane was adopted unanimously. Fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. Request to consider the draft law on new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, has anyone from the Council of Ministers, please, Mr Grubišić Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2103	I thank you, once again to greet you all. So, before you, there is no proposal for a law on new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. It is a law that has been passed on temporary by the High Representative, and therefore this would be a procedure for adoption on a permanent basis. The law, as you can see from the text, introduces a newspaper so that it is used in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and English language, which is to enable the work of international prosecutors working in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, agreeing or interpreting it in one of the official languages of BiH to provide a judicial interpreter. So he's already in use because he's been brought in on a temporary basis and I suggest that he adopt himself, so that eventually we can go back to his changes and supplementation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2104	Thank you very much. Is there any further discussion? I know that for this point, Mr. Genjac, we are on the fourth item of the agenda, the Act of New Amendments, please. You had an observation as far as I can remember, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2105	I thank the Chairman, the request itself does not make any major changes, it is by the simple law of high degree, complexity and harmonize certain procedures and consists of two members. So, that law on amendments to the law. However, the name of the draft law on new amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office is inappropriate and I think it may cause problems in the future. Why? The possibility to make future changes to this law is not excluded, then these laws should be called the Law on the latest amendments. Therefore, afterwards on the most recent change, etc. Therefore, I think that this termology that exists in some 7 legal schools is probably not appropriate for our occasions and I would ask the Proposer to accept that the name is changed and simply called the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. All amendments to the law are published in the official lists in continuity and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2106	So can we, Mr. Grubišić, please, here's Mr. Grubišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2107	So I've already said that it's a law that has been passed on temporary grounds by the High Representative, and that's what he called this law, and in that sense by that technique this, that nothing changes, would not be possible. However, I would like to take this opportunity to suggest something and this House was one such debate at the House of Representatives. So, perhaps we should either have an executive power, or a legislative conversation with the Office of the High Representative in terms of agreeing on the adoption technique of the laws adopted on a provisional basis. You know, that all the laws that the High Representative makes on a provisional basis, to be published in the Official Journal. So, and when we, and it is often about large-scale laws and when we adopt it, Parliament is republishing it in the same text, again in the Official Journal. Technically, it might be more correct to say, when the High Representative adopts a law on a temporary basis, so we adopt it as a law on a regular basis, to say the law on the adoption of a law adopted on a provisional basis. I mean what it's called already, and all it says is, it's the law and the law. It would be a short bill and we would meet it, I think it's a technique of this, I think we would have met that there would be much less space in the official ballots and so, but of course we would have to agree with the Office of the High Representative this, expensive and perhaps the Ministry of Justice and both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I think that would be a convenient way and that technique of such law-taking is not unknown to our legal system. We've had this, often a chance, and I think that would be correct. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2108	Thank you very much, Mr. Grubišić. I think we could go to this to accept this, but on the condition that the Council of Ministers when we accept this, when it becomes officially our law, to immediately change and correct it as a technical mistake. So let's try to make it real, because I don't think this kind of syntagms and this doesn't take our language. Here you go, Halida. Filipović, please. Halide, Filipović's up. Filipović called earlier. Halid answered, but Filipović also answered. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2109	Thank you very much. Thank the chairman for respecting the order of applications. Very briefly, therefore, with the support of these remarks we have heard in relation to the name of the law,..so the new one will be the latest, so it will be newer than the newer ones etc. This is what we would have to correct, but in Article 1 here exclusively this, I suggest, I know that we can't change this and that in Article 100 we'll accept it, but I can't say it. He's an Englez deputy prosecutor by accident. If he was Francuz, we'd be looking for a change for French. I would be more logical if it were asked here to, with three languages under the Constitution, be very equal, very equal but not sufficiently participated in equality, so we have not yet reached the implementation of the constitutional provision on the equality of use of all three languages and both letters in the state of BiH and we are introducing in procedures and one English language. I'm not against English, though, but I'd be happier for this unfortunate solution to write at least one of the world's languages. He'll be here in six months or three months, in a year until the deputy prosecutor's change, and we'll have another amendment to this bill. I'm sorry, but I had to notice. I know we're going to vote this way, but I'm unhappy about these changes to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2110	Thank you, Mr. Filipović, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2111	I'm just concerned with these allegations by Mr. Secretary. We don't have a law situation here that imposes a High Representative on a temporary basis. We have a situation that the Council of Ministers is proposing legislation and is asking us to adopt it according to procedure 100. I sincerely hope, by the procedure of article 100. Rules of Procedure, I sincerely hope, and I think it's quite certain that there will be no more law enforcement by the High Representative on a provisional basis. So this is both orientation and general because of all the known circumstances in BiH and this is not about the law imposed nor the laws imposed. This is about the law delivered by the Council of Ministers in the procedure as a proposer and with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure, i.e. by Article 100. Rules of Procedure. In these cases, there is really no amendment by the MPs. However, the promoter has the discretionary right to call the law as he considers it best to call it before its adoption. I'm not going to insist on that, but later on, when we adopt it, we're going to act amendmentally, but I'm staying on the grade to make this more rational right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2112	I have this, the obligation to say here that the House of Representatives has adopted this law as it is pointed out here, and I think that we have the possibility that after adoption, after all these observations are quite clear, which are justified, but we are left to adopt the law in this form, as it is proposed, and that it would be considered adopted, so that we do not choose some commissions, and the Council of Ministers of this, 9 acts immediately after its adoption, in order to change this and bring it into one situation as it suits this climate. Thank you very much. Here I am now, I think we're all mostly in agreement here, so I'm going to ask, who's for this law to be considered by an emergency procedure, or by Article 100 point 2. Our Rules of Procedure? 14 Who Is Restraint? - 1 abstention, thank you very much. Now, I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for word now by law? Nobody's answering. Who's in favour of passing the law, I'm putting it to a vote? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. So the law was passed, unanimously. Fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. Request to consider the proposal for a law on new amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Proposer again of the Council of Ministers. That's the same case as Grubišić, isn't it? I'm this one, now I'm going to say I'm putting this one to a vote. Does anyone have any of these, uh, remarks? I'm now in a position to put it to a vote. Do we adopt this, we're considering it by Article 100 point 2. Rules of Procedure? Who's in? – 14 abstention – 1, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is anyone calling for a word? Nobody's answering. Thank you very much. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. This law is considered adopted and unanimous. It's the sixth point. Ad.6. Proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, first reading, Proposer High Representative This is the first reading. You received the law as well as the Commission's report. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed the law at the 30th session held on 24.02.2004, with amendments adopted by the Joint Commission and which became an integral part of this law. 10 I'm opening a debate and I'm asking the debate, who's answering the word? Mr. Tomo Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2113	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, MPs, respected representatives of the international community who are here in the position of law enforcement representatives, I welcome you and I would like first of all to stress that I agree generally with the argument given in the light of the Law on the Intelligence Agency of BiH in the section relating to constitutional and legal basis, is the reason for the adoption of laws and principles for its development. In particular, I support the commitment to allow this law to be established by another new institution of the BiH State and that this institution respects in its work the highest level of protection of human rights defined in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and... the freedom and recommendations of the Council of Europe, No. 1402 of April 1999, on the control of the internal security agencies of the Member States. The reform of the intelligence security segment is an integral part of the overall reform process on the one hand, and on the other hand, this reform is also a condition of creating a peaceful security environment without which reforms in other areas of our society and the state are practically impossible. In addition to what this reform needs, I have in mind and the fact that it is one of the conditions for BiH to join the Partnership for Peace. For the purposes of this The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are scheduled for the draft law to be sent to the parliamentary procedure by the envoy, the House of Representatives, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Apart from these four entities, under the Constitution of BiH and our Rules of Procedure, no one else can propose the law. From the fact that the House of Representatives has already passed this law, we can objectively accept it as an entity that is practically the legislator of the law, although it corresponds to the truth that you, Mr. Chairman, observed at the beginning of this session, that the High Representative is the real legislator, that is, his commission which formed it on 17 December 2003, was the High Representative of the College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Law on the Intelligence Agency of BiH. In this act, the High Representative, forced me to say so to the Council of Ministers, because it was not an uprising or intended to reach agreement on the initial text of the law and as an authorised proponent to refer it to parliamentary procedure. This law interrupted the stalking practice by which the High Representative concerned that his experts write the laws and deliver them to the Council of Ministers, which, with cosmetic repairs or in the original, does not rarely have a bad translation from English into one of the languages we speak in BiH, passes them through the College to the envoys or representatives of the House of Peoples. The previous debate has just confirmed another example of such practice. I would like to remind you of distinguished colleagues, that last summer, at a joint session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, we unanimously adopted conclusions that supported the priorities set out by the High Representative on that occasion. I remind you, at that time, we took the obligation to pass laws by the end of last year, which will be the basis of a reform of the tax and customs system of defence and 11 intelligence security systems. Our executive power, the Council of Ministers did not carry out its mission within the deadlines set. The Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, so to speak, has removed the chestnut from the fire and has put us in a position so that we can adopt, consider and hope to adopt this law today. To be honest, we could have done it as far as I'm concerned 10 days ago, but what's 10 days ahead of 140 we lost because of this Council of Ministers relationship. I use this payphone to congratulate all members of the Joint Commission who, with her engagement, has allowed this delay to be made even tolerable on the condition, therefore, that today we are on the trail of our commitment to adopt this law in the final form, which is also my proposal, and I hope that other colleagues will agree. For example, these atypical procedures that this law has passed, shows a series of things that I'm going to emphasize four of the following. First, the reform process, both in terms of essence and depth, and in terms of weather dynamics, is clearly managed by the High Representative, not our authority, and that is what is not good. Perhaps it would be a good opportunity for us to learn from this lesson and that our home government, primarily the executive power, is more actively and aggressively involved in fulfilling its obligations. Secondly, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this case has proved to be a more reliable partner to the High Representative than the current Council of Ministers' meetings. The credibility of the High Representative's authority has been alarmingly questioned, as it is not apparent to stand up to ensure the flow through the Council of Ministers of Law which is prepared by the OHR's office, and where luck this is the last such case and we are witnessing the fact that we already have announcements about some other legal projects, that it will have a similar subject. Without any twisting, I am expressing my open suspicion that this Council of Ministers will engage in the implementation of this, but also other laws, so that our reform will end in the very adoption of the law, and it is clear to all that this is just the basis of which, if it remains, there will be no real benefit. In spite of this, I would say a controversial procedure concerning this law, I would like to express my appreciation for the efforts of representatives of the international community. First of all, the respected Mr. Kočiš, who, as a professional, has invested in the respect, has made an effort to get a law that will, with repairs, lead us to a much more favourable position, at least potentially than the one we are in right now. What to say about the law itself, when 120 amendments come into one law of 108 articles, and when the parliamentary procedure is adopted in the commission phase of 50th, it says in itself enough. I'm inclined to accept the European standards in our legal projects, but of course I'm not always ready to accept the conditionality of mixing pears and apples. And I'm not prepared to accept the bianko claim that in this law everything is according to standards, and then for 2-3 months as in this previous case, changes are required, and then some new changes, etc. I'm simply warning you that we need to take this job more seriously. I deeply believe that our specific Bosnian-Herzegovina needs 12 can be brought into line with European standards. Of course, that doesn't mean that we can step on our current constitution and our applicable laws with the intention of being specific, I'm going to make less taxing following remarks, so I'd say disagree and the dilemmas related to this law. First, the intelligence reform at this stage comes down to the mechanical merger of existing intelligence services in entities, and I don't believe at all that an eclectic merger, conditionally said rotten apples can get something digestible. Secondly, the Agency staff will not have the status of civil servants and will not be subject to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, which is not at the very end of the line of interest for either these employees or the state, and I hope that the Agency will not be over the state or give Bog a pair of state institutions. Thirdly, in some decisions of the proposed law, it does not contribute to the demystification of the work of the future agency, because its employees continue to have the right to use false documents and to establish secret organisations, which gives the possibility of abuses which will be protected by law by various world breakthroughs, murderers, criminals. I won't remind you, there are fresh examples, suspicious and yet again on some law-made identity changes precisely by the person in these categories that I have mentioned at all. The Ćetvrto, although the Constitution of BiH guarantees equality, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, does not respect that fact until the end of the law, because this latest version of which we are discussing is scheduled for the chairman of the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the Agency to be from the House of Representatives, which I do not consider to be a constitutional favour of this House in relation to the House of Peoples. By the way, I've been feeling it lately, and I want to say it in this pay phone. Various efforts to question the position of the House of Nations the constitutional position of the House of Nations as an equal home, which is not good. Not only because, as it stands in the Constitution, it is certainly not good because of the fact that there are things first of all, the House of Nations needs to decide. And one of the segments is exactly this segent that they didn't want, we can bring in relation to the protection of national interests, for which there is firstly a House of People, has certain, appropriate instruments. Fifthly, while ignoring the Constitution, some of the provisions of this law have the ambition to suspend individual solutions to our applicable laws. For example, the Council of Ministers Act in particular remember that Article 18, then the Law on State Administration, the Budget Act, the Law on the Protection of Personal Dates, the Labour Relations Act, etc. The sixth, the law does not provide for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to submit an annual report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the implementation of the Information Security Policy Platform, which is a direct obligation under Article 5(4) of the BiH Constitution. Seven, instead of starting at the establishment of the Agency, the law establishes the obligation to comply with the national staff structure according to the last census, practically all employees will continue to work and I do not believe in the foreseeable time that this national structure will be appropriate. 13 Eighth, if the Agency’s staff are not already subject to the State Service Act, why should those who do not have adequate professional training remain in their posts for another 2 years. For me, the explanation that this has been taken over and only taken over by the Law on State Administration is not correct, because while two more years are done by people without proper professional training, we will have young experts, graduate criminals, with a degree in the Faculty of Criminal Sciences, a department of security study, hopelessly waiting for the Bureau of Employment or standing in line among those who expect visas from various embassies to go from this country. The Ninth, despite certain repairs in the sense that the College will establish the criteria of the law, however, the law provides for security checks by the envoys and MPs, which implies the possibility that, under alleged indications, the likeness of those who need to control the agency will be done by the Agency itself. Of course, this law meets probably the expectations of people who are currently working in intelligence services, and especially what I will last say as my remark is the exceptional protection of international institutions. So, we observe them intelligence we don't have the right under the law, and nowhere is protecting us from them which, of course, whoever holds to the dignity of his own state, certainly won't allow here I am convinced that as soon as the time is more favourable for us in BiH we will, through changes and additions or the adoption of any other law of this type, protect ourselves. There are, of course, other things that, in one of the more critical relationships of this law, can be made for this parliamentary speaker, but I have made a commitment to these 10ths, some of which can be improved if the corresponding amendments are adopted among which some of my amendments have been repeated. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Council of Ministers on the obligation established by the law to establish within 3 months of the establishment of the Agency the initial text of specific laws which will be regulated by the security verification procedure and the protection of confidential data, i.e. the parliamentary surveillance procedure. Although I mentioned this last year when I discussed the BiH security policy document, I did not notice that I was taken seriously, so I will again draw attention to the Council of Ministers on the obligation to prepare two important laws. The law on the protection of confidential data and the Law on Parliamentary Control. It is only when we pass these laws that we will meet the condition for the Partnership for Peace, Europol and at all true co-operation with members of the International Intelligence and Security Community, because no one serious will give us confidential information unless it is certain that this information is protected by law and that whoever abuses them will eventually be punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2114	Thank you, Mr. Limov. We've heard these discussions, we've heard these discussions, and I mean, is there more, Halide, you're gonna amend it? For first reading, thank you, Halid and you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2115	Dear colleagues, I will speak in my discussion of the two parts, therefore, of the law in the first reading, of the concept of the law that came into the parliamentary procedure, and when 14 of us are discussed by articles and amendments, I will also refer to the law that came after the treatment of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I think that we have received from a group in charge of parliamentary procedure a law that is in line with democratic principles and in line with the practice of modern democratic European countries. In particular, I stress the fact that the group has worked all the time to preserve and retain the basic principles of the functioning of such services, especially in the sense of maintaining a unique subordination chain of management, which is an essential condition for the functionality of the service of this nature. Of course, the characteristics of BiH we are familiar with were also taken into account. It has also been said of ours, it has been taken into account and the burdens of the immediate past, the still existing mistrust, it is quite understandable, and it has sought, of course, to help overcome that trust, and it provides for the establishment of an executive intelligence committee, in which we would be next to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its two deputies, namely to ensure the presence of all three constituent peoples in the overall functioning of this service. What is quite undeniable, BiH, to preserve its political independence, its constitutional integrity, territorial integrity, its international subjectivity, this service is necessary. And I think it's really been time to work on this law before, but where we are. Today we have this law. It is clear when the preambles of the law are read, that the law deals with security issues, in areas affecting BiH as a whole. And I don't think there's any controversy here. Given that up until this point, we have a security intelligence scene that spends more time spying on citizens than protecting the state or state interests and these issues that are of interest to the entire state. It's an additional argument as to how much this kind of service and this kind of law is needed. I think the task force has given us a chance today to have a chance to pass a law that will establish a modern effective agency that will be democratically responsible in accordance with the highest European standards. As far as demestification is concerned, I think this service has been demystified to the greatest extent possible, while making a public utility out of the intelligence service. I would not particularly highlight the responsibility of the Council of Ministers in relation to the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly because it is known that every MP and every group of MPs can pass any law, even the most necessary laws that are before us today. So we could propose this law on our own and the role of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers is in the legislative procedure, absolutely equal. Not alluding to the Council of Ministers of Responsibility for the inability to reach agreement to deliver the law to parliamentary procedure. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Assembly has shown responsibility and the degree of maturity of a BiH institution to find the strength to find solutions. 15 I am particularly emphasising the role of the Intelligence Security Commission as this Commission has played a key role in this business. Of course, I'm holding the fence, one of the amendments was adopted, by the national vote of the Bosniak Club. I think that these amendments will, in some ways, interfere with the functioning of this service. I will discuss this in more detail when we talk about amendments and the political level of these changes, as well as the consequences for the functioning of this service. And finally, after all that's been said, thank the task force for this job whose result today is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2116	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. It's Mr. Čengić's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2117	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, members of the means of communication or information to the public, I am very pleased to have the opportunity today to discuss this law and I believe this is an important moment. I believe this law is of importance for BiH along with the Law on Defence and indirect taxation. I believe that these are the three most important laws that have not only occurred in these few months, but have appeared in the Parliamentary Assembly in these few years, and I consider them to be laws that definitely give BiH as a state, as a state, a full legal framework that can function normally. In that sense, I would like to say that I have joined all those who have already said that, indeed, those people who have worked to pass this law with Mr. Kočiš deserve all praise and gratitude for what they have done. I will be very open here and say that I am convinced that there are experts in BiH, experts who could have done the law also at a high professional level. Are they sufficiently consulted I don't know, but the fact that the knowledge and experience of those who are ahead of us in applying democratic standards and even democratic standards of functioning of such important institutions are certainly important for our quality lawmaking. What is important to me is that this law certainly needs to provide for real reforms, and that I see it as one of the laws that paves the way for further integration of security services within BiH as well as reforms within BiH that need to ensure both the security and security of the state and security of all those who live in this country and the security of foreign investment, but should also ensure BiH as a respectable and stable factor both as partners in the region and in Europe. For this reason, I personally and the Bosniak Club support and support the work on this law and we certainly want this law to receive the required number of votes today. 16 In particular, I would like to say that the concept applied in the preparation of this law is highly professional, and that it has succeeded, therefore, in preparing the law to avoid the danger of politicizing. When I say highly professional, everyone who deals with this job knows that it's normal for these services to be monitored on the line and on direct communication to the highest level of government. Whether this is a government or a president or an in-house body representing a state. For this reason, I believe that the concept which has been applied here is the concept of communication to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Government and the chairman, until the end, is correct and offers the possibility of establishing an effective service that will be fully professional and not politicised. I cannot go beyond the fact that the amendments made to this law have politicized this law, and they have politicized the organization by making it less transparent and more politically subject to various knowledge, various information, and perhaps in some of its work and influence. So before I go any further, I'd like to try to ask some questions about the proposed text, there aren't many. Who am I going to ask? So I propose to those who worked to prepare the law. It has already appeared here in fact as a proposal from the Commission with all the amendments it has adopted, but I would still like to see someone standing up to me today answer a few questions. In Article 20 of this law, in a version that I have, I would not dare to show in which of the domestic official languages or perhaps not at all, but in Article 20, row 3, it says, "an exception to the position of 2 of this member, whose indicative, whose discovery would endanger the vital national, security interests". I'm convinced that this is translated from English and I'm convinced that there's a nestel written there, and I'm convinced that this is supposed to mean state interests, not national interests. We are sitting in the House, in the House of Peoples who, among others, have a job and task to protect the vital national interests of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. If that service that needs to exist and has to do the same job, there's nothing wrong with it in my opinion. It would be good before we give a vote, to discuss this issue. Maybe no one has submitted the amendment, and neither have I. I think this is before the translation question, but the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2118	Error
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2119	Please don't, there's no translation error. This is the official text that is currently in the procedure and that is what we are pleading on. For me, this is a very serious question. I don't answer that, I'm just asking. If the answer were that this is vital national interest, in the way this House has it and whose jurisdiction, therefore, is the jurisdiction of this House, then I think it would be very bad that this service is doing this kind of protection of vital national interest. That would actually be catastrophic. The service wouldn't be here anymore. The following, in Article 39, point (f), is said of which a person cannot enter into a working relationship with the Agency. This will certainly interest the public. So it is said in point f) that 3 17 years before the date of application for that post in the Agency, it was not fired from the state service as a result of a disciplinary measure, at any level of government in BiH. This is good and this is basically the office. Perhaps Mr. Kočiš, and perhaps a large number of people working around this law do not know, that there was in the Federation and there was a service called the Federal Intelligence Service FOS and that, in my opinion, a large number of people were fired from it, in my opinion, by the self-will of the then director who had been removed, by the High Representative, that these people had filed complaints that they had never been held accountable, that their cases had not yet been resolved, that this was precisely these 3 years and that probably one number of them had been fired in the manner of these so-called disciplinary responsibilities, irresponsibility, etc. If this provision applies to them, I think it's wrong, unfair, unfounded and wrong. Perhaps for you, who have done the law and who see the law in the next 20 years how it works, that this may be minor and insignificant to us who live here, is neither minor nor insignificant, especially as it comes to a number of professionals, a number of highly professional people and a number of people who are unfortunately not fired because they have violated the rules of service or have done other against legal acts, but have been fired on a political basis. There's another little, little question here. Snack under g), he says he has therefore, so that someone could be employed by that future intelligence agency, must have a conviction of impunity and that criminal proceedings are not being conducted against him. This isn't a criminal trial, it's very suspicious and very open. You know well, that there are so many criminal charges in this country right now, that if none were filed, and if these were to work professionally, it would probably take the next 10 years. So it's very easy here now and in these conditions to earn a criminal application, and it can very easily be instrumentalized. I'll do it anyway, I won't go that way, so I'll say one next thing. This provision is in principle correct, but in this country there are people who are in the previous system, convicted, so in the communist system convicted under Article 133 for a verbal delinquent, who considered that system a criminal offence, and who is certainly in each convicted person's personal file, because he was indeed convicted, according to then applicable law. Now are we going to get into a situation where people who have been convicted on a political basis in the communist regime cannot even appear as candidates to work in this service, and at the same time we're going to be in a situation where people who have worked as informants, intelligence services, so informants, can apply for not being punished, but having their own file, we didn't predict an illustration in this law, so they can be employed on that basis, and those who have been punished because these informants did their own informative work, can't be employed in this service. I know these things are impossible in Western democracies, but I also know that this is the reality of this system and this political moment. So, when it comes to the concept, let me just have a few things. So I think the concept on which this law was made professional. First of all, based on one side, on democratic principles, on another founded desire and driven by a desire to establish an effective, functional, passing institution. That's really what this institution has to be. With those amendments that have passed on the Commission, the Joint Commission of both Houses, let me say 18, the politicisation of this law has been carried out and in fact a kind of parallelism has been established, so exactly as this law should have been the abolition of the intelligence services and entities, which by letter is, by the introduction of parallel institutions of almost parallel, I repeat the almost parallel powers of the Council of Ministers and the Chairman and the Presidency of BiH through amendments that have been accepted on the Commission, and to all those detachable, parallel functions of the type what will be if it is chaired by the Agency of the same people. I don't think these solutions are good, they're not driven by the idea of efficiency and we didn't need them. I believe that it is necessary to make changes in part today by accepting certain amendments and I am convinced in the future, therefore, by returning to the basic proposals for a solution in the law. So when it comes to this idea of politicizing and paralysm, I repeat by politicizing unfortunately, with a kind of return, by a kind of partial return of parallelism, to protect ourselves from some possibility that possibly one nation has too much interference in security issues, let us now have some basic information. So, if the motive is presented to the Commission, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, that it is currently chaired by the Council of Ministers of Bošnjak, and that possibly the director of the agency could be Bošnja, and that there would be too much of that Bosniak in those two points of security, then let me remind all colleagues of the following facts. Security structures in every democratic state are not just two points. At BiH level, we currently have the following structures or individuals related to security issues. Foreign Minister, Security Minister, Defence Minister, SIP Director, State Border Service Director and now head of security agencies. Right now, who thinks this isn't like this, let's just read this bill and have a look at that Executive Board, which advises the chairman of the Council of Ministers, see some other solutions and they'll see that it is. So this is not only from the general theory of security in democratic countries but also from this law. Today, gentlemen, my position is like this, the foreign minister, future defence minister and current SIP director belong to the Serbian people. So, of the 6, 3 have already been elected, 2 have already been selected from the Serb people and a third is waiting for the proposal to be appointed, but it is already agreed to be from the Serb people. The minister of security from the Croatian people, and the head of the State Border Service, rotates every 8 months, so it is not from any individual people. So, right now we have a situation that security issues in BiH are covered in a way, in a way of 3 Srbin, 1 Hrvat, one place kicking, and no other Bošnjak. If that's what it is, if it's a threat to someone on this basis, then I don't think we got it right, and we didn't get it right. Why am I saying this today? Because I believe, again, I believe that the basic solution in this law in which the function of the service is before policy and politicisation, so it was necessary to keep it, so if it should be defined by the chairman, so the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Director of the Agency for Security cannot be from the same people or what is clearly needed in order not to politicise this issue of security in BiH in an ugly way, will have to sit down and agree on a certain level, in which way these services that are important will be deployed. Therefore, the amendments that went towards reducing the future director of the Agency, which could be Bošnjak, so these amendments motivated by this solution, and then in 19 of this sense, can't for a year do this, can't do this for the next two years, etc., through adopted amendments so I repeat, are not amendments that will make this law richer, which will make it even more modern and more high-quality, but, unfortunately, return a little to something that I would like our history and our past. Let me just mention the next one in the end. Amendments adopted under this law, in the Joint Commission on Fundamental Affairs, adopted by something that has become the official terminology of the HDZ presidency, which was used there by national revote. According to information available to the Joint Commission by national revote of Bošnjak, existing amendments have been adopted. At the same time, HDZ, the HDZ presidency says it will not accept at least what the newspapers say, I am being built if the newspapers misquoted, that they will not accept the decisions made by the national revote. What if today in the House of the Peoples of the Bosniaks, who is in charge of the protection and national interest of Bošnjak, says he cannot accept the solutions made by the revote, by national revote. I am convinced, therefore, that the amendments proposed by Mr. Genjac will be considered without burden, politics or politicisation. Consider without burden who will be the future director of the Agency, because no one will be eternal director of the Agency and consider with one goal only, ensuring that reforms of the intelligence and security structures in BiH ensure a greater level of security for all BiH citizens, a higher level of security of functioning of state inconsistencies, prosperity in BiH and the ability of BiH to be a favourable and positive partner in the region and a future member of European integration. In that sense, I would like to say that I support the basic initiative and the solutions that are proposed. I am sorry for some solutions in the amendments, which did not have to be defined in this way, because other solutions could be found and I am convinced that in the discussion that we have now and by voting on amendments in a certain way, the colors will be replaced by some unquality solutions accepted by amendments and today we will get a law that will be applied very quickly and that if Bog gives positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2120	Thank you very much. Mr. Velilim Jukić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2121	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, you didn't have to ask for a restriction now. I'm really going to try,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2122	I'd ask you to, uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2123	Focus your speech on what is important and important for this law. I will try to refrain from some political assessments and qualifications even though here they are, it seems to me that others do not abstain from such qualifications and evaluations. This is a very important law and I am fully committed to passing and adopting this law. I think this is one of the most important laws that will contribute to BiH's further arrangement in the way that others are arranged and above all Western European countries, which is what we seek. I would also like to thank Mr. Kočiš, who has invested a lot of his knowledge and effort with his colleagues and the entire Commission, has done this little bit of an easy law. Otherwise, the law is not easy to pass, with this topic in any other country and especially for a country such as BiH, because of its specificity, so here are the historical specificities and also in recent years. The first part of the reasoning of this law says a lot and I agree with the great majority of this one here, I agree. Here it is said in a very short and clear way the short history of making this law. It has been said here that the Commission has worked, it has also been said that, based on some meetings and talks and seminars and discussions with these meetings and seminars, some amendments and some solutions have been adopted, and then we have received a different text of the law. In my opinion, it's a lot more quality than the first one done. After the Commission's work on the defence and security of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the law is further amended and significantly. There was a chance to fix it even more and to have even more quality law today than this is. However, I believe that the vast majority of the solutions in this law stand and are good. To a significant extent, a recommendation of 1402 of the Council of Europe has been complied with, however, in some parts of these guidelines have not been given sufficient attention and some of these here recommendations have not been sufficiently implemented and I think it is in my opinion and for me, a fundamental objection to this now text of the law. I don't know who bothered to respect some of them, and most of them are respected, but some are not sufficiently directed and then they would certainly have an even better quality law. As any speaker here appears behind the pay phone, he is also invited to these guidelines and it is very interesting that only one of these guidelines is that one minister should be responsible and managed in some way by the Director General that, by the work of this important agency. And in these directions, that's one of the directions. There's 15 of them. I think that some of the guidelines are much more important and more important than this one guideline, which is to a significant extent, but not entirely because of again, I will repeat the specific opportunities and arrangements of BiH still respectable. My main objection to the first text was in terms of external management and supervision where the Presidency was not mentioned at all. I don't know who it comes to to exclude the Presidency from this important job because it only has the right to be informed of one part and that question which, etc. Let us not forget that BiH's three-member presidency was elected in the direct elections, therefore it has the largest electoral legitimacy that can be held in any country at all. And that's why I think introducing the Presidency in this way is a step forward in the quality of this law. However, I personally advocated an even more high-quality and active role of the Presidency in this business and this law, without prejudice to the Council of Europe's recommendation that the minister be responsible for the management and functioning of the agency. 21 Consider the part where in my opinion the most deviating of the Council of Europe's recommendations is, in fact, the most important part because it is the most problematic part, which is the sphere of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And that's why I think some of my amendments are going in this direction to pay attention to this issue and to correct the additional text of the law in a way that will fit these guidelines. What does this matter? This is important to everyone. And that it doesn't happen that intelligence is spying on citizens as they please, whoever they want and how they want by means of secret means, methods, etc. And that they don't answer for it. I think it is also necessary that this is a standard throughout Europe, Western Europe and in the developed world, to strictly adhere to the law and to install insurance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Furthermore, I believe that this law has poorly solved one important issue. And that's staff and staff agencies. Some of them talked about it before I did. I'll say this should and could have been solved in a much better way. I've tried to fix this with my fellow amendments. But I'm afraid it's a little late now, because these are the amendments that matter. They're important for organising the creation of the agency itself, and I don't know if it's possible to adopt and change it at this stage. But these are some of the amaniacs who are important and are not, you don't disturb the concept of the law, I think we need them and we're going to adopt them in the follow-up of our session. Furthermore, I also believe that it is and is related to this issue, it should and should be taken into account the dimensioning of this agency. I also believe that this agency is pre-named this way under this law for BiH, for economic strength and opportunities and for BiH's potential, because I'm going to say one thing here. I believe you know him most of the time. It's no secret. Today in the world, I think, less and less secrets, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Anything that's too secret, for me it's always a little bit and questionable whether it's well-intentioned and in the interest of everyone or state. It's usually the interests of individuals. One developed Sweden, which is 2-3 times the population of BiH, and by economic power I will say a few dozen times and perhaps more powerful than BiH, has a smaller service than is expected to have BiH under this law. I think we should look up to the land that's at that level of development. I also think that one other way was to address the issue of the relations between the Director-General and the Council of Ministers' chairman. I think that in this way, the Director-General was left with even too little space and responsibility, because in one place it even says that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so one minister will assume the responsibility of the Director-General. I don't get this, and I think it's possible again for a bad translation because then there's a real question about how it's going to work and how it's going to be responsible for the Director General. Here, I have brought several of these principled remarks and reflections to this law. In the second part, of course, I will talk about some details and it is actually very difficult to talk about principled attitudes without quoting some solutions that only then complete what is given as a general assessment, or when it comes to the principles on which the law is based. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2124	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. I think we've had a lot of discussion, but if there's anyone else, we can get back to you, but it's good to let here be allowed to suggest that we adopt this law in the first reading, and right after we get involved in the debate about the law, about the members, about the individual members and about the amendments, but because of the new situation that we've been able to do our job properly. I'm putting it to a vote, so first-reading law. Who's in? Unanimity. So this law was adopted unanimously in the first reading. So, I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Today we'll talk, then we'll discuss the amendments and vote on the law. You've reached the Commission's report,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2125	Are we going to vote on whether or not we're going to go to another reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2126	Well, I'm doing it all together. I think so. Who's in favor of going to another reading? Thank you very much. But, please, I told you who's up for it, to pass the law. I said, "Who's up for it?" "Let's pass the law in our first reading and go to law school in the second reading." And then we all accepted it. Watch out, I've secured Boško. Thank you, you're my friend. You've received a report from the Commission. The Commission has adopted 49 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the draft law. The new amendments, due to the new situation, were offered by Mr Tomislav Limov, Halid Genjac, Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. These are common amendments, right? And here I am opening the debate and asking if anyone's answering for a word? Sir, who are you asking? Don't ask me now, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2127	So I asked a few questions in my presentation. At least one, so at least one should get an answer, and that's about Article 20 of that question on vital national interests. So, is there anyone involved in this. Any members of the Joint Defence and Security Commission or anyone else to explain what this is about? At least that. I asked three questions. I'd like to get all three answers, if there's not at least one answer, even though I know you here also know that these few other questions will be safe, when the example of that starts, there will be problems with that. If only before any further discussion can we see what this is all about. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2128	Do we have this, Mr Kočiš or Kočić gospodin Chairman, Mr. Čengić, and the honourable members of Parliament, first of all, would like to thank you for your support in your first reading. I really appreciate your constructive approach that my commission enjoyed during this parliamentary debate. I'm really sure that you've set an extraordinary example, so how should we treat all the issues that are vital and important that are very sensitive? As far as specific questions are concerned, Mr. Čengić, and I think that when the gentleman said it meant national, vital national interests have a different meaning, meaning than in this English version, so it is totally acceptable for us if you change the vital state interest in the local version. And as for this second question, it means as far as employees, former FOS employees who have been fired, I don't see how we could right now, means to fix or direct the law in that direction. I know that in accordance with the law, the Council of Ministers should adopt criteria to be applied during the verification process when employed by this agency. Thus, such suggestions or contributions that would be similar to these can be found in making these criteria. That it would be unacceptable for me to have someone mean, punished now for being convicted means, during communist times, for some offence, so that it can be corrected during the verification process. So, but since it's not in my jurisdiction, but I'd like to make a proposal to run one initiative together means, to all those who have been convicted, to the courts in times of communism. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Kočiš. Hasan Čengić reporting again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2130	So, I'm taking the opportunity to thank the Excellency Kočiš for this answer, and I find this answer important. So he said very precisely that he does not see how we could now change the law regarding Article 20 has explained that he believes that there should be put instead of a word, a national, a state interest, which I think is actually the meaning of this article. But at the same time he said that he didn't see how something could be done in the text about this article 39 g) and f). I totally agree with him. I believe that he has great experience and it is good that this one we have here and I propose to the distinguished colleagues, that if we should have a debate about this and agree that this comment he has made here for cases where someone on a political basis has been excluded, or rather at a time of communism or possibly political basis or for political reasons of the 24 FOS compositions, that he cannot be punished for not being able to appear as a candidate and that this explanation from Mr. Kočiš is actually our attitude, so that we consider this to be an interpretation of the law from the one that makes the law. I suggest if we can't have a debate about this, counterpart Zoran Spasojevće, and I think we need to agree that people can't be punished by the inability to apply to work in this service based on political diqualification. So for that reason, I don't think it should go into a change in the text of the law. The text of the law should remain as it is, but we should know that in the application of the law exactly as Mr Kočiš said, when criteria are drawn up and after they are applied, to come into a position to understand this legal text in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2131	Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2132	Mr. Chairman and fellow MPs, I apologize for taking a few moments, but I would like to remind you. We're in second reading now. So we're only discussing the amendments that are set up in this, so that means that they're here. Now we have no reason to go to some interpretation of what the law will look like later and what Mr. Kočiš said and I respect you, Mr. Čengić, and what you say about both Article 20 and these other members, what you say about firing workers. I understand all that, but there's no point in talking about it now. We can only talk about this after the adoption of this law, namely the submission of amendments and additions to this law. Now we can't, it's an excellent observation for you in general for these people, and you have to advocate it, I'm about to always advocate it, to sort of find justice to make it possible for these people, but right now we can't discuss it. At this point we are discussing only amendments and which amendments are adopted, we are voting completely on the law. When the law is passed, then we are given the opportunity to make changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2133	Thank you very much. Here, I think this Spasojevic proposal is quite constructive and I think it's reasonable, so let's move on. I'll ask you to go, you can't go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2134	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Limit your time off. I'll just have one sentence. I have to go back to this 20th on this article, which Mr. Čengić spoke of and which Mr. Kočiš understood perfectly, and I think this is a mistake to the translator. And I think that we really need to understand here and Mr. Kočiš understood it and understood it immediately, and that here we need to accept that observation, and this is all that Zoran said, uh, it stands, but it also stands what Mr. Čengić said. Look, it's standing there and this one, and it might happen to us that we here knowingly or unconsciously bring some injustices, and I wouldn't be there for that, to bring them to people. To be a mother to some 25, to some stepmom. May we be a mother to those who persecute men, and be a stepmother to those who are persecuted. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this on number 20, and that those suggestions Mr. Kočiš and Mr. Čengić spoke of, we need to correct this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2135	Thank you very much, Hasan, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2136	But first we need this right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2137	It's about this translation misunderstanding. I think I'm asking you this nicely, I think it's the legislator to consider and therefore has the consent of this House if it's a technical mistake or a translation error to correct it. If he thinks it's a translation mistake, to correct it, and if he doesn't, if he doesn't think it's a translation error, then we will act immediately after adopting this law and ask for an amendment to that part of the law to bring him into a normal situation. I think this is a good proposal and it could be accepted, but here's my colleague, Boško Šiljegović, has the same thing to do with this topic most likely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that we've been drawing on this bill a lot, I've had an unfortunate circumstance that I was a member of that commission that worked for hours and hours, I'm going to try to avoid a lot of that repetition. With one sentence, perhaps a little no offense, Mr. Čengić, BiH is a country with many differences. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have had a lot of contradictions and I see BiH's future in our compromises. And that's why I'm asking you, if we came to this law with a lot of compromises, we'll probably try to make a difference in some future period that we have as little of these compromises as possible to get better quality laws. The bill was proposed by 108 members and there were 120 amendments. Of these 120 amendments, 49 were adopted, and today we have 22 new amendments. The conclusion of the National Assembly of the RS says, the proposal for a Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, which, with the agreement of the MPs of the Serbian Democratic Party, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats of the Party of Democratic Progress and the Socialist Party, was voted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, should also be supported today by delegates from the Serb people's order from the RS. I'm trying to move quickly from one thing to the other and the fourth area, the new amendment. It is acceptable for the Club of Serbian Delegates to accept what the Commission has adopted, which has adopted the House of Representatives, and from the new amendments it is 22 today, it is acceptable that what is in the variety of technical nature, technical corrections without this Article 20. We also accept the removal of certain illogicalities if said by the Commission which has worked hard on this and accept amendments relating to Article 96 to the abolition of the OSCE in RS and the Federation of BiH since 1 May instead of 1 April. Thank you very much. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2139	Thank you, uh, I pray regardless of these views, I am obliged to think these are RS decisions, we will respect them as much as we need to respect them, but this is the House of Peoples and he has his Rules of Procedure and his Constitution. I'm asking you to go along with the amendments and that, because there's a lot of them, I've made some order here. And here they are, first of all, here you go, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, since I'm going out for the first time, I welcome you all here, and I resent you, Mr. President, for letting you here and the political speeches stick here at this session that has the agenda, which we set out at the beginning of this session, and where we should stick to the agenda. But we'll do it another time, if we have to open it up, that's the agenda point, and then we'll talk about it. But here I am, since there are proposals and amendments and the RS position here, I am looking for a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2141	Now, right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2143	I, please, I, uh, I don't know, answer to Mr. Spajić now. I'm sorry that I don't know what an individual MP is going to discuss when he comes out, but we haven't had a promise so far it's always been liquid and we haven't broken up in the discussions, but I think it's a good observation by Spajićev and here I am giving half an hour, is it Spajić? Half an hour, a break, half an hour at the request of the president of the HDZ Parliament Club. So, we voted for it, to conduct a debate on this law and in the second reading, and I have to say that in this second reading, as I read in this book that we got 40, please wait until I conclude, that we have received 49 amendments and that these are amendments submitted by Mr Limov, Halid Genjac and Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. [[PAUZA]] Discussing the Club of Croatian Representatives has requested a 10 minute crawl, half an hour, pardon me, and here we have finished this break. I ask Mr. Spajić to explain the request and the agreement after that break. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2144	Very short, I think it is already known for the proposal of the Serbian Club here and the amendments already presented were necessary consultations in the order of the Croatian Club and therefore it is a request for a break, and here can be continued with the meeting. Thank you very much. This is where you received and you have all the amendments in the material. I suggest we move in order since the amendments were submitted to the members of the law. So we could go right now, Mr. Halid Genjac has submitted an amendment to Article 7 of the current law, the law on chemistry, Mr. Genjac, can't, because then I'm gonna get lost and we're not gonna end anything. Member by member, I can't. There's a lot, so I'm gonna lose the compass.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2145	I support this orientation to go member by member, because it's really more efficient and rational work. So, on Article 7 of the Law, I have submitted the amendment. Otherwise, Article 7 is a member, a new member who has been established after the adoption of the amendments on the Joint Commission for Defence and Security. The new Article 7 under the heading, rights and responsibilities of the Bureau identified a specific position, a very clear position on relations with the Intelligence Security Agency and was given what the role of the Presidency in this institution and in this area. I agree that the BiH presidency as a very legitimate body will get its part in this. However, I voiced concern, at the time of the amendment's adoption, that this was not exactly in line with Council of Europe's recommendations, because these recommendations clearly require one minister, namely the terms of Europe, to receive a minister who would bear political responsibility for the intelligence sector. This means that the intelligence service cannot have several entities responsible for the subordination of management chain, where the agency would, therefore, be under normal control by several entities, which in reality means virtually no one. For these reasons, not to challenge the competence and role of the Presidency, and in order to clarify and decidently bring it into this position, which is required by the Council of Europe's recommendations, I propose that in all cases that two parameters are added in Article 7: exclusively from the responsibilities of the Presidency listed in this article, and there are 9 of these parameters, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH is solely responsible for monitoring the performance of the Agency, which performs in accordance with Article 10 of this Law. In exercising its powers under this article, all communication between the Presidency and the Agency will be directed exclusively through the BiH Council of Ministers Chairmans, and the BiH Presidency will not collectively or individually instruct each member or in any way direct the work of the Director-General, Deputy Director-General or any agency employee. I think this argument that I have stated and this text speaks quite enough and I believe that this, in order to clarify the position, is a very useful amendment. 28 There is another small change within this amendment, and that is in point 3 where these responsibilities of the Presidency are listed. The amendment says that the presidency is directing the Director-General to carry out inspection controls. In this amendment, I have proposed technically, which is necessary for repairs, not to direct the Director-General's Representation, but that the Bureau directs the Chief Inspector to carry out inspection. I don't think there's anything controversial about it, and it's a simple technical improvement. So, for these reasons, I call upon my colleagues to make this amendment...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2146	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Genjac's proposal, we heard his amendment. If there are any objections to this, we'll vote the amendment by amendment. Is there any objection to this amendment, to this Genjčev, to this Genjcek exhibit? Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2147	Point 3 reads, so the Bureau directs the Chief Inspector and the text follows, and the last sentence ultimately says that the Bureau will not collectively or each member individually give instructions in any way to direct the work of the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General or any of the Agency's staff, and the Chief Inspector is an employee of the Agency. Therefore, the decision in paragraph 3 and this last sentence of this Article are in collapsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2148	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. I'll take this one. Is anyone else picking up? Do we have any more debaters on this amendment? So, Genjac please, in order for me to understand a little bit better and to be all clear, this amendment Presidency is competent to, well, the listing is that Amendment number III is whether, yours and then Amendment number IV is this in the adopted amendment IV that concerns Article 7. The proposal for a law under 3 words – directs the Director-General, changes the words – directs the Chief Inspector, right? That's two amendments. Here's one after the other, so we kind of put them together, so we're going to vote individually. About one thing and the other. Please, there's a Genjac, do you feel the need to say something else?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2149	First, around these two amendments, the following amendment, Amendment IV, is part of Amendment III and, if Amendment III is accepted, it is excessive. In that case, I'll pull him out. So he is part of Amendment III contained already in Amendment III. That's one thing. 29 And secondly, I do not know in the text of the proposed amendment the last sentence, so in point 3, if adopted, it will say that the Presidency is directing the Chief Inspector to carry out inspection, etc. And in this last sentence that Mr. Jukić cited, the presidency or any one, it directs communication through the chairman. The Bureau or any member of the Bureau shall not give instructions or direct the work of the Director-General, Deputy Director-General or any staff of the Agency. I think the inspector general may at the same time be deemed not to be an employee of this agency. Look, if that's considered necessary, if this fence is required, I'm allowing it to be placed except for the inspector general.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2150	Thank you very much. Do we have any more objections? Here, I'd like to beg
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2151	The fourth amendment needs to be adopted and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2152	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to put Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment, Amendment III. I don't need to read it, you have it in front of you, and please,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2153	/He didn't come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2154	This is Amendment IV, Amendment III, excellent, well, here's Halida, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2155	For a stenogram. So, please, I accept that the amendment is accompanied by an amendment at the end of this amendment to stand after or any employee point other than the Inspector General, except for the Chief Inspector, in accordance with point 3 of this law, of this article.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2157	Places 1 point 3 of this article.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2158	Thank you very much, we have heard this amendment and who it is to adopt this amendment to Halid Genjac with this amendment or amendment. 30 Who's in? Who's restrained? - 3 Who's against it? - 1 So the amendment of the gentleman, Amendment number III of Mr Halid Genjac, with the correction that has been said, was accepted. Please, we are now on Amendment IV. Mr. Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2159	This amendment IV, as part of Amendment III, has already been accepted and is therefore unnecessary and I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2160	Thank you very much. So, Amendment IV to Mr Halid Genjac has been withdrawn. Amendment and Mr. Tomislav Lim. If you have a nice one, do you have all this in front of you so you can follow. Thank you very much. Thank you, please. I'm trying very hard to serve you very well. Here you go, Mr. Limov. Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The essence of this amendment stems from the fact that the text of the law entered into the obligation and the right of the Parliamentary Assembly to bring an annual platform for security policy intelligence, and I have proposed this amendment, that an annual report be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly on how this platform has been implemented. I found an amendment foothold in the BiH Constitution. In accordance with Article 5(4) of the BiH Constitution, the Council of Ministers made up of the chairman and ministers has an obligation, I quote, the implementation of BiH's policies and decisions in the areas referred to in Article 3(1), (4) and (5) and the submission of reports to the Parliamentary Assembly, including at least one report on the expenditures of BiH. It is logical that the chairman of the Council of Ministers will keep in mind that in his report on the implementation of the document, the annual platform on security intelligence policy, MPs and representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, only the data that will not be compromised by sources and the way information arrives as well as further operational activity in the Agency. I remind you that for this year, the Agency will have 30 million marks at its disposal and it is quite logical for Parliament to be informed through an appropriate report on how these funds have been spent.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2162	We heard the year Lim. I call upon my colleagues to report for discussion and discuss this amendment. 31 Behold, Mr. Halid the Genjac answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2163	Dear colleagues, I really support the need to inform and report to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina about the work of this agency. However, I also respect the fact that it is a very specific agency and that the law provides for the submission of the report to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a manner provided for in Article 18, which also speaks to Article 17, which speaks of parliamentary oversight and the Security Intelligence Commission appointed by this House. The security intelligence agency under this same law will number 12 members, 6 members from one, 6 members from another House under imperative that opposition parties must be represented, even if the chairman must be of the opposition party. In what the Agency should do to this intelligence commission, which is therefore a small parliament and which will assess after all the materials whether Parliament needs to be addressed, it is also stated that, among other things, the Security Intelligence Commission, this Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is considering reports by the Director-General on the work and costs of the Agency. I think what the promoter had intensities was I support that it was fully satisfied with Articles 17 and 18 of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2164	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Velimir Jukić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2165	Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendment, and I think we should adopt it. The reason why? Because the recommendation 1402 explicitly states that the following - executive authorities should exercise ex under the fact that they control activities in the service of internal security, for example. Determination of the internal security service's obligations to produce and submit a one-year report on their activities. So this isn't about spending money, it's about your activities that mean work. Once a minister should be given political responsibility to control and oversee the service of internal security, and his cabinet should be allowed full access to the possibility of effective day-to-day control. The Minister shall submit an annual report to Parliament on the activities of the Internal Action Service. So this is what it says in the recommendation. So it's not about spending money. Article 18 regulates the funds and is done. But this article here regulates, therefore, the Agency's activity report and is submitted by an authorised minister once a year to Parliament. So again, just harmonising the provisions of our law with the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2166	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Here's what we heard. Here's Mr. Halid Genjac's word. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2167	Just one clarification, please. Article 4 where it is said, or Article 18 where it is mentioned, I am experiencing a moment only, where parliamentary oversight is mentioned, is not about the costs of the agency, but about the commission which is, therefore, 12 members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are considering the report by the Director-General on the work and costs of the agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2168	Thank you very much, Doctor. Take it easy. Here's Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2169	We really don't have to convince ourselves of what's going on here. It is very clear here in Article 18, and Article 9 says what the Council of Ministers' duties are or what a minister's recommendation is. And let's not give rights without obligation. So it is the obligation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers to inform Parliament. Not a parliamentary commission, not just any other body, one part of Parliament. I don't know what not to respect the amendment is not mine, but it is Mr Tomislav Lim, but I fully support it because it is on the verge of harmonising our law with the recommendations of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2170	Do we have any more debaters? There isn't. So we've exhausted the discussion on this amendment. So I put on the vote amendment number and Mr. Tomislav Lim. Who's in favour of adopting this amendment? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? - Three against? There's no one here. Thank you very much. We've finished this amendment, too. The amendment of Tomislav, amendment number and Tomislav Lim was adopted. Amendment and Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. I ask one of them to come out and explain why this Article 15 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2171	Hereafter, at that stop requested by the president of our club, Mr. Spajić, we re-analyzed our amendments and in our conversation with Mr. KochicKočiš we decided to withdraw this amendment, but I will tell you, I still don't think that this amendment is necessarily necessary, but here we simply agreed that this amendment should be withdrawn, so it should not be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2172	Thank you very much, Mr. Velimir Jukić. 33 So the amendment number and Mr. Velimir Jukić and Mr. Ante Spajić were withdrawn. Amendment ii to Tomislav Lim. You've got that amendment in front of you. Is there any need for Tomislav Limov to explain the amendment? So we vote. Who's in favour of adopting the amendment to Tomislav Lim, this number II? So unanimous. Thank you very much. Amendment II to Mr Tomislav Lim was adopted unanimously. Amendment ii Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. We've got this amendment in front of you. Is there any need for Mr. Jukić or Mr. Spajić to further explain his amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2173	Since we are relatively few in the House of Peoples, then I immediately know about how anyone thinks. I already know that this amendment will not get the required majority, but I will still say the reasons why I and Mr Spajić submitted this amendment. We all said it was important and important, it is important this agency, and it is especially important that the executive part of this agency is represented by all three people, and as things are now standing, I have a feeling that it will not be like this and, unfortunately, it usually seems that the Croatian people will be cut off, so there will be no two deputies, or there will be one deputy, and then we have a situation as follows. Well, those were my reasons and I'm thinking again that it's good, it would be good to adopt this amendment, because if we have one... we can have two. I think we'd just be a little bit more consistent here or show that we're really into what we're up for, and that's to ensure that there's a real vulnerability, even though here's what's obviously happening both in the legal solutions and in the appointments differently. So for that reason, I've submitted the amendment and I think we should support it, but I won't be surprised if it's different.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2174	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Is there anyone who's reporting for a debate on this amendment? Here's the amendment to Mr., Amendment number III, right, Jukić, sorry, amendment, pardon amendment II Mr. Jukic and Mr. Spajić for the vote. Who's for Amendment II to adopt? - So five. Who's restrained? - 3 Who's against it? – 6 34 So the amendment of the gentleman, amendment number II of Mr Jukić and Mr Ante Spajić did not pass. We now have Amendment III to Mr Velimir Jukić and Mr Ante Spajić. Is there any need for further explanation? Is anyone picking up? You want Mr. Spajić, considering Jukić's tired. You will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2175	I'm not gonna read this amendment, but I'm just gonna say what it means. It is proposed that the Director-General and his deputy, and now the deputy, resolve the duties of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I think this is very logical, to make it very useful and to ensure better and better quality work of this agency. Why? Because the main one in some kind of surveillance and command will be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and the current solution in Article 24 is that he should appoint the Director-General. I believe that this amendment should be adopted and that the Director-General of his deputy is appointed by the Presidency, and that he is responsible for his work and that he is the first to be assumed and chaired by the Council of Ministers. I think it's a very logical solution and that this solution is better and that it would ensure better and better quality work. I am convinced that and there is, in fact I have received confirmation that in many countries where the president is elected directly that one of his powers is always the appointment of the first man intelligence service. Also in these countries, it is usually a practice, as in this law, for the head of the executive board to be very close to those who write in our law for our chairman of the Council of Ministers. Of course, the solution provides for it to play its part, therefore, on the proposal of the Council of Ministers' Colleges, with consultations with the Security Intelligence Commission. Parliament is therefore also involved in one way, the executive power, and the appointment is carried out by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This text extension does not matter. That's the norm is whether to be a professional etc. And I call upon my colleagues to adopt this amendment. I think it's good and useful and will provide better and better quality work for the agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2176	We heard Mr. Jukić's exposure. Is anyone picking up? Thank you very much. I am voting on Amendment III to Mr Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. Who's up for the amendment? - 6 - Thank you very much. 5 is restrained, apologetic 6 is restrained and who is against? - 3 How do we get along?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2177	/He didn't come out for a pay phone/ 35 Entity majority has no and objectively has most. Now the members of the College need to agree on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2178	Do we have to do this now?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2179	Yeah, right now, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2180	Well, there's no consent. ____________: Then we need a second round, now who's against it. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Please, who's by entity who's against this amendment? From the Federation. Who's against the RS? What should I do, excuse me, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2184	You can't have one that's your 4 if it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2185	It's all good. Did we start from three, so it's all good, please? Amendment number and Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go. Hello, Secretary. You confused me. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2186	The original text, in the article, in the original text of the law, in Article 31 of the first position, stated that the Chief Inspector appointed and relieved the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Chairman. Therefore, the Chief Inspector appoints and relieves the Council of Ministers' duties on the proposal of the Chairman, it was in the original text. The amendment adopted by the Commission, Amendment 28, which says that, after the above words I have just read, the points are deleted and the words and its deputies are added. So on the proposal of the chairman and his deputies. I have proposed the amendment to challenge this adopted amendment and to return to the original text.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2187	Okay, we heard this amendment to Mr. Genjac. Is there anyone here to discuss this amendment? There's no one to suck. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment and asking who's in favour of this amendment? Who's restrained? - 1 abstention, who's against? - Amendment - 2 abstentions So let me repeat now a little bit for 5, versus 8 and abstention 2. The amendment, therefore, did not give birth. Thank you very much. Amendment II to Mr. Halid Genjac. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2188	The original text of the law in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 38 states that the Director-General shall establish a Competition Commission to review applications and hold talks with candidates selected by the Commission in the short term. At the Commission, Amendment 30, which reads to amend that position 1 and 2 and that the Council of Ministers will set up a review committee, consisting of representatives of the Professional Advisory Service, representatives of the Ministry of Security who will review applications and hold talks with candidates for entry into service. I think in the original text, the solution is far more rational and practical and that, given the organization of the intelligence of this service, it is more appropriate as it is in the original text. And that's why I suggested he return to this amendment number II to return the law to Article 38 in the original text.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2189	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. We also heard the explanation. I'm asking my colleagues who have called for a discussion to report for the discussion. No Niko's answering. 37 So who's in favor of adopting amendment number II Mr. Halid Genjac? - 5, who's against it? - 10, who is it, no abstentions, is it? So Amendment number II Mr. Halid Genjac has not been adopted. Amendment number III to Mr Tomislav Lim. Here you go, Tomo.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2190	I will remind my fellow envoys of this text that I appreciate should be deleted. (e) Article 76 of the covert collection of information requiring the approval of the Director-General. (e) stand - prepare and use secret documents to protect employees in the Agency and natural persons who cooperate with them as well as to conceal the security nature of the purposes of the operation itself. And under f) – establish temporary organisations to collect classified information. As part of the CIPS project, BiH has a Law on the Protection of Personal Data and its provisions applicable to all citizens, thus also to Agency staff and their co-workers. The provisions of the said Personal Data Protection Act cannot be derivated by this law. If it were to be given the right to use secret documents and set up secret organizations, it would be a legal basis for abuse. If this were to go away, then we would have to install a mechanism to protect against these abuses. Without it, I appreciate that it's perfectly logical that this can't go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2191	We heard Mr. Limov. Are there any debaters? Here's Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2192	I will just remind you that the role of this law is to establish a single agency that has a purpose to combat the most dangerous phenomena that are a burden for Europe's most modern, advanced states, and of course BiH, that's a matter of organised crime, that's a question of terrorism, that's a question of drug trafficking, etc. These are issues that are not really issues that can be addressed without being used by the means available to all similar services in countries where we are looking for a model, and these funds are also listed here in point e) and f) also used in the services of almost all European countries. I think by narrowing down the space and possibilities in the way this agency works, we will leave this service without being able to achieve its goal. Of course, in doing so, the instruments of control of this service that are very prominent in this law, as well as parliamentary supervision should be used as a way that this service is used by means that are otherwise common but not misused.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2193	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Filipović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2194	Thank you very much for your word. Only two sentences relating to this amendment, in order to support this amendment. Therefore, if we did not delete this, under point (e) and especially under point (f) of Article 76, the Director-General would have the power to establish and maintain temporary organisations to collect classified information. So this is in the plural. As long as he wants and whenever he wants, then what's the Agency gonna do? So it's an unlimited power to establish how much he thinks and when he thinks of it. So we have to wipe it out of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2195	Thank you very much. Do we agree that we have exhausted the debate under this amendment? And I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who is it to adopt amendment number III to Mr Tomislav Lim? - 6, what are you, uh- eight, so who's in favour of this amendment, who's against the amendment? Who's restrained? - 6 abstentions, please, which is just 1 So the amendment has not been adopted. Here we sit, voting again. Thank you very much, by entities. The entity of the RS, who's against it? Niko entitet from the Federation, who's against it? - 1 So, the amendment was adopted. Thank you very much. Amendment IV Velimir Jukić and Ante Spajić. Please, is there any need for an explanation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2197	Here I will again refer to Recommendation 1402 and this amendment is correct, so the cited text with the recommendation and it reads, that the person who was the subject of the surveillance or listening should after the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2198	Please talk to me for a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2199	. be informed of the measures taken not later than 30 days after the end of the procedure. 39 I won't even comment on it so the text of recommendation 1402.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2200	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Is there anyone who answers your question? Here's Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2201	Of course, among the recommendations made by the Council of Europe for the making of laws that regulate the area is very decadently listed as well as for one minister and the co-ordination of a minister and this is listed as a need for legislation, however, I support it. But I think that here you need certain adjustments to be made in order to be rational and functional. What do I mean by that? It says here the person who was the subject of the follow-up. So all the people. What happens in case it's some foreign diplomat who's been spying in Bosnia for the needs of another state. Whether or not that person from another country should be informed that he was the subject of monitoring and how to do so. That's why I think a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who was the subject should be listed here. That's one thing, that's one thing. Please. And another thing is that there's been a bug on someone who's a suspect and who's potentially a terrorist or a terrorist activity on the continuum. It would be very irrational to inform someone for whom one follow-up, no material was obtained, so let him know that he was followed, you know we're following you, you've got some terrorist activity, we've been following you, and there's a possibility that these activities will continue. For these reasons, I think that there should be restrictions here to achieve the objective of the Council of Europe's recommendation quite correctly, but to eliminate possible misunderstandings and possible illogicalities in implementation, as in no country has the recommendation of the Council of Europe been applied in a way that comes into the area of uncertainty, uncertainty and uncertainty. That's why I think it would be useful at this point for one break of 10 minutes to try to find a solution. I think, yes, I would support this amendment with a certain correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2202	Please. Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac, I'd like a five-minute break for you and Jukić to agree on that amendment. Here you go. Gentlemen, here's how we expected Mr. Jukić and Mr. Genjac have reached an agreement and will kindly tell us what they agreed on. [[PAUZA]] Here you go, Mr. Jukić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2203	I never doubted we'd make a deal. I think Mr. Genjac's addition is acceptable and I accept it to be part of the amendment. So, a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen or a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen who was the subject continues to go text as follows.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2204	So, please, here's the amendment. It's got a little bit of a change. You heard what Mr. Jukić said, I'm not saying it again. Who's to accept this Jukic amendment, it's an amendment, an amendment to the amendment number, which is number, number IV? Who's in? Thank you very much, very sensiblely. So the amendment has been accepted. _______/? And when is it disproportionate? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Of course, very often. Amendment IV of Mr Jukić and Spajić in the updated form has been accepted. amandman v, Velimir Jukić, Ante Spajić. Mr. Jukić. Article 79(2) is deleted. Is it deleted or not erased?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2206	But I need to explain this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Namely, not Amendment V, you're not the brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2207	Article 79 of Law 2 is deleted, said Mr Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2208	No, no, no. Secret data collection shall be suspended immediately. So this article, this is a very interesting article. He is already talking about illegal data collection and says the last item below – the Director-General ensures that the data collected in a way that does not comply with this law is immediately destroyed. Be careful, first of all, if they're illegally collected.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2209	How I can illegally collect. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2210	Yes, it is. And it should destroy them, but you see, that's why the big question here is what to do with this article. Well, first of all, here's the amendment I filed, and now I think it's better to stay if they're already collected in an illegal way to at least destroy themselves. But it already assumes illegal data collection. Even affines, or that's what's expected. And that's why I'm now in doubt about giving up my amendment, but I don't think it's a good article 79, or the assumption that the data will be secretly collected, or illegally collected. I think it's one situation that's very awkward and I find this to a significant extent spoils the quality of this law. ______________(?) /Common discussion/ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2211	Okay. Please, please, a little concentration. Gentlemen, please, colleagues. I'm asking you a little concentration, we're a little tired and we've been working a long time, it's that we've all worked out, but let's get this amendment and get this over with. That's what you say is wrong, but what's wrong? Here you go. Don't discuss it from the scene, give it to the pay phone, let it be written down. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2212	Just to look at the essence of this article in 79, let's see what's not controversial. Secret data collection shall be suspended immediately. When set to a) when the target that is set to the account has been reached. I think that's okay. When it is finished, when the goal is achieved, there is no need to further collect data. (b) When further results are not expected from their further use. That makes sense. c) When the deadline for completion was set, it expired without extension. There are also these situations, I think, and therefore it is in accordance with the law must be, are there no presupposes and under d) when secret data collection is illegal for any reason. I think it's illegal to collect data and collect data if the deadline is up and it's not extended. And it's an illegal collection of pedestals. So there are these situations, there are these situations when from the formal ones, but there is a possibility that this is being misused. I think we should focus, so it says item two is deleted. In my opinion, there's a mistake here so let's make a, b, c, d) empty, so I guess this text that follows item 2 or is point e) I don't know I don't get it. There is no logic 42 to be because that position is said by the Director-General to ensure that the data that are attached in a way that does not comply with this law is immediately destroyed. In such cases, the Director-General will inform the Chairman and the Chief Inspector. I think we'll set ourselves up here on the other side. If someone comes to mind or does something illegal and collects that information, then here they are set up to destroy it, so that no further abuse of what has been done is done illegal and that, of course, the chairman and chief inspector are informed. On the other hand, of course, who is to illegally collect data and how to sanction it. So here I have really the same dilemmas that I have no answer for, but I see the existence of situations that can be treated with this attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2213	Thank you, we're all interested in this, Velimire. Mr. Osman Brka first reported, then Čengić, Radovanović pa Filipović. That's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2214	We've come up with a very interesting fact for me, which is foreseen here, but I'm now asking myself a question, I'm asking a dilemma to us as the legislative body of the highest in this country, whether we have the right to put into law the assumption that we're allowing someone to work illegally, to say that's within the law. He can work illegally and have no sanctions at all. It's immoral, not ethical, not legally whatever you want. I wouldn't let myself wonder, I don't have the right formula, but I wouldn't allow that possibility if someone were illegally able to work without sanctions. I don't think that we in a member can let that happen, that we know that there's something illegal to do and nothing. I mean, that would be a little embarrassing for us to let that happen. That's what I think, and I don't have a way out, so let's all think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2215	It's a good brkati. Come on, hasane. Hasan, and Radovanović, and you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2216	So here we see again how the problem is when we have the law and we don't have someone standing behind it as a proposer. The reason is very simple. The best meaning of this article is who wrote it, who suggested it and who came up with the idea that it was standing. However, since no one here now acts as a proposing really in a formal sense, if someone came forward from those who participated in law-making I would be glad and probably useful, I can only say next. We have a very serious situation here, and I think Mr. Jukić's amendment has raised a question, but the way it is doesn't solve it. So we have two variants. 43 One is set up by Mr. Brka. Can we agree to allow the law to act as an anti-zaconite activity? In that sense, I would ask everyone's attention to see how to get out of this. Mr Filipović and please, because it's very important. Mr. Jukić's amendment doesn't solve the problem. If under d) in the first position, it remains where the secret collection of data is illegal for any reason. So if this stays, erasing this attitude 2 is even dangerous. It's even dangerous. So if we're going to change then we should also change this d) in paragraph 1 and the whole point 2. So that's one variant. The second is the variant, but now please, now let's go ahead, not idealize life but watch it for who it is. First, the service is the service and second, there are a large number of perpetrators in the ministry. A large number of these people are authorized to undertake certain activities. You can't draw a line in your life, so say eh on this side of the road you'll run after it when you've got physical surveillance but Bog help me if you cross the road over there on the other side of the sidewalk eh there you can't run after it. There are people here who have experience that and this one I mean, experience that kind of looks like it. So it's just that it's realistic in life to predict that one of the people involved in some activity or maybe a whole team of people doing a job, that they really get into a situation that's clean for them. But later, when someone looks on the legal side and the rest says eh, now you've really crossed the boot. Now he can't, this can't do this. But it's not just that, because watch out, they've already made some material, they've already grabbed something they've got some evidence, materials they've served, some papers, I don't know what, they've got some data. It's already happened, it's there. What's going on with that? So we have a variant that nothing comes. What do you mean, nothing? Eh, now somebody's gonna take it and put it in a drawer. Wait a minute. What happens next? Whether someone else is going to abuse it or the material that has been created as a result of such an act and activity is identified after it is determined that it is still an excess of the law and then, in a certain way, this material is being removed because they are truly illegal and cannot be subject to any further use of it to anyone. So it's a state of life and I think, so I think these cases might be. Whether it's the law or some other act under the law, I wouldn't be going into it right now. I believe there must be a procedure for the appearance of evidence or evidence of this species to solve in terms of what is happening to these evidences in order not to be abused. If we decide to delete this, then we should delete the article d) and let these issues be resolved by some rule. If it remains in item 1 this point (d) or point (d), then it must remain in point 2. It seems to me in the end that it would still be safer to keep all of this as it is than to erase any of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2217	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Radovanović. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2218	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for me in this article is neither a dispute nor a point d) nor a second position. Stopping means collecting data when secret collection is illegal. We have to assume this situation, it can happen. The question is, what about this data that's been collected? The fact is that they've been collected, there's a second view, that he's making sure that these data are destroyed by me, and that's quite logical. The main question that I think is being imposed here, what sanctions, what consequences are there for the man who did it. That's the only question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2219	It's a matter of criminal law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2220	So my opinion is that this could leave point d and point 2 with the second sentence of Article 2 might be added. In such cases, the Director-General will inform the Chairman and the Chief Inspector and initiate proceedings against the person who did so.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2221	Thank you very much, Radovanović. It's Mr. Filopović now. Mr Filipović,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2222	I'm giving up the discussion, on the trail of what Mr. Čengić said and I accept this... [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2223	Thank you very much. Here you go, boss.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2224	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs. I have carefully read this article in 79, and I have carefully read the amendment to this article in 79, and I don't think this amendment is satisfying, it's not in line with this, according to what it says here. Main interference in this Article 79. this point d). She's a major distraction because this secret data collection, normally it's the Secret Service, she collects secret information by subduing this article d) under some things that would be done illegally. So you should remove article d from this article in 79 and add to this, reshape this one down, because the director here is normal to coordinate, coordinate, and make it smarter than his employees that what they've done, because if there's any officer who's wrong, he's going to drive out all the officers in three months. Normally as soon as a man makes a mistake, but the director's here to correct it, so don't say it like that, but go this way. But we can't put this in law to collect illegally. That makes sense. 45 Director-General, I suggest you stand this way later. The Director-General shall ensure that the data collected, after extension, is immediately destroyed because the point c) is also the point after the extension of the deadline. And in such cases, the Director-General will immediately inform the Chairman. Which chairman? It doesn't say here, you don't know which chairman. Probably the Council of Ministers thought so. The Chair of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Inspectors and Chief Inspector. I don't know what the Chief Inspector is putting on right now and leaving out the deputy. And to make a joke, here the director will be Bošnjak, the deputy will be Srbin and the chief inspector will be Hrvat.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2225	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Velimir Jukić going to try with a transformation to make an amendment that can be adopted, because here we see everyone for that amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2226	Here, I thank all the colleagues who helped. I would try to reshape this amendment the following way. So this is deleted and so technically is the surplus here and that the second item is the last sentence, the second sentence, the last sentence of the second sentence - in such cases the Director General will inform the Chairman and the Chief Inspector and initiate the disciplinary proceedings against the one who acted contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2227	We have heard what Velimir has now proposed as a new amended amendment, a reformed amendment. I'm putting him to a vote. Who's in? So unanimously, -14 and 1 abstention. The amendment has been reformed this way. velimire, put that amendment there. Amendment number VII, Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2228	Dear colleagues, follow one series of amendments VII to XII, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII which have a role to play in bringing dates into line. Namely, the proposed amendments refer to....zakona, i.e. the establishment and start of work that the law provides for 1st April. Taking into account the time-consuming process of the adoption of the law, and the time needed and obviously, and now already already on the Commission's agreement, then the appointment of the Director-General, Deputy Director-General and Chief Inspector, it is also necessary to form a security intelligence committee, a series of operational technical steps before the end of the entity and efficient start of the work of BH of the Agency, and it is estimated that objectively this deadline set by 1 April is not possible and in all these amendments that I explain all seven amendments, instead of 1 April, this deadline is put in place on 1 May. I think that's enough. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2229	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please nice amendment number VII Mr. Halid Genjac, who's in favour? ________: There's only one vote we're voting on. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Just for once. So unanimous. Amendment number VIII Mr. Halid Genjac. Who's in? Amendment to Mr. Halid Genjac. Who's in? Amendment V, here you go, Mr. Halida.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2231	Let me get these papers. Amendment V
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2232	This Executive Council, Proposal for a law in paragraphs 3 and 4, shall be deleted by means of an executive advice
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2233	I ask you in Amendment XLIV, which was adopted on the Commission, it has been said there exclusively from the provisions of this law, within 10 days etc. The chairman-in-Office will, with the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and consultations with the BiH Presidency and the Executive Council and the Intelligence Council, submit a list of candidates for each of the above-mentioned functions. It turns out that the chair of the Vice-Presidents who are Executive, Intelligence Council will consult with the Executive Intelligence Council. That's why this is too much of an executive advice. I'll finish if, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2234	Here, please, let's finish one by one. I'm sorry, Filipović, please. So now it's time to vote on amendment number V Halid Genjac, amendment five. Who's in? Thank you very much. So the amendment passed number V unanimously. 47 Amendment number VI of Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2235	Amendment VI relating to Article 98 The proposal for a law, i.e. Amendment XLV of the Commission, adopted an amendment that, during this period, this amendment, which is the result of a bitter compromise that the Executive Intelligence Council will take charge within a year of the Council of Ministers chairing the Council of Ministers and provides that the Executive Intelligence Council will, in this year, do all that in the responsibilities of the Council of Ministers, so that it is in these points, that it will act as chairman of the Council of Ministers, indicated that p-seats in item 4. will schedule meetings of the Executive Intelligence Council. The amendments turn out that the Executive Intelligence Council will schedule meetings of the Executive Intelligence Council in the following year. And that is why I have suggested that everything remains in the power of the Council of Ministers to do this Executive Intelligence Council this year, as adopted in the amendment, except for this point 4 because the body cannot set up its meeting. There must be an individual who will make appointments, which are usually prescribed to be held monthly. It's purely technical. The Executive Intelligence Council shall also act as chairman of the two Vice-Presidents. And now it turns out that this Executive Intelligence Council will schedule its own sessions, so I'm the entire Executive Intelligence Board. You know, it's just that it's all the Executive Intelligence Council in this year keeps what's been adopted by the amendment, just except for this point four, so the chairman keeps the role that he schedules the sessions, because some individual has to schedule the sessions. And that is, the only one who can preside. That's what this is about. I mean purely technical.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2236	Thank you very much. Here's what we heard. I'm putting this amendment to Mr. Halid Genjac's VI vote. Who's in? Mr. Jukić, did you vote? Who's against it? There's no one who's restrained? - 1 So Amendment VI Halid Genjac was adopted. The amendment IX to Mr. Halid Genjac is your choice, who's for? So Amendment IX Mr Halid Genjac was adopted. Amendment VI, Velimir Jukić and Mr Ante Spajić, do you have any discussion? Or I'll put you to the vote right now, so yes, you will, you're closer, Filipović says.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2237	So here's to cheer you up, at that meeting we followed up on that stop, we decided to give up this amendment, but I have to tell you that I'm not a bit satisfied with the solution defined in Article 99. It regulates the issue of the creation of 48 Intelligence Security agencies in a way that physically connects these two existing and then quite not clearly in the second part also says that there will be verification etc. However, here is when everyone thought it was a good solution, I think it is not, but also me and my colleague Spajić and our club are not even ready to ask for such a radical change, because this is a radical change very important and I am not sure it would be easy to implement it, and with the explanation of the people who worked on the law, I accept and here is Mr and Spajić and I am ready to give up this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2238	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić and Mr. Spajić. So we're saying they've given up on Amendment VI. Amendment IV to Mr Tomislav Lim. Mr. Limov,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2239	Giving up, of course, has nothing to do with the political party. He's here on a conscience exam for all of us. Namely, this article, i.e. the provision to which I have put the amendment, is said that MPs at the Agency with higher school training, who have previously been assigned to the workplace for which high school preparation is required, cannot remain in place for more than 2 years from the establishment of the Agency. I appreciate that it is unacceptable for another two years to extend the privilege of people who do not have the right expertise to take places and to prevent the employment of highly educated professionals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2240	Thank you, Mr. Limov. We heard the suggestion. I'm asking you to listen to each other a little bit. It'll be easier. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2241	I'm a teacher and I've got higher school supplies. I have a higher pedagogical school in Sarajevo. I feel like I'm a normal citizen of this country. As soon as I'm sitting here, I guess I'm a normal man. And absolutely, very publicly, I say that all the laws that are made in this way as Limov suggests, make people with high gear and completely sectarian relations with all the people who don't have a degree in college. I, by law, can be the president of this country, can sit in the House of Peoples, can be in Parliament. I claim that there are people who can do very responsible jobs and do them, but people who make the rules are mostly people with colleges and keep places for themselves. And that's why I'm protesting and I'm saying that 20,000 teachers in BiH who educate children are not fools. And in this way, I will never accept that this can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2242	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović answered. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2243	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid this amendment will not solve Mr. Limov's problem. By erasing this amendment, which has set a period of 2 years to do so, we will get a deadline that is unlimited, you know. And as far as this is concerned, I think it says here that there's a replacement where high school is prescribed. So in those cases. And now by erasing this attitude, we're going to get an unlimited deadline. If it's going to happen, then that deadline should have been shortened, in that sense, only that... otherwise, by erasing that problem, we don't solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2244	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tomisav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2245	This is about someone who doesn't have the right expertise being
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2246	I'd like to ask my colleagues, to really hear from you, to get this over with and to be on the clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2247	My view is, therefore, that one who does not have the proper training can not be assigned to these jobs. And that's, we're not doing a new service, we're seeing people again, so we can't talk about continuity in that sense. We are also building a new institution in this institution, if in the beginning we are going to allow people with inadequate expertise to take the positions they had in previous services, then the question is how consistent we are and this has nothing to do with what Mr. Brka was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2248	Yes, it does, sir, and it has a good connection.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2249	Advocating that people who do not have the right expertise to take the positions of those who have it is because of me, it is highly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2250	Thank you very much. Here's another Tomislav Limov. Do we have any more debaters? I am putting Mr Tomislav Lim to the vote on Amendment IV. Who's up for that amendment? - 5 Who is against this amendment? And who's restrained? So the amendment didn't go through. 50 Amendment X Mr. Halid Genjac. Halide, is there any? I'm putting Mr. Halid Genjac's amendment to the vote. Who's in? Unanimity. Amendment XI to Mr. Halid Genjac. Who's in? So Amendment XI, Mr Halid Genjac, has passed. Amendment XII to Mr. Halid Genjac. Here's to, so unanimously. Thank you, colleagues. I am now putting the bill to the vote with adopted whether the adopted law with the 49 amendments that passed at the House of Representatives plus the amendments that we adopted at today's session. Who's in favor of such a law? In the second reading, it is. Thank you very much. Since the law has been adopted in different texts, we must choose a committee for reconciliation. In front of the Serbian people ________: Why do you keep giving priority to them? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] They're nice to me. He's ahead of the Serbian people. He's a candidate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2252	In front of the Serbian people in this mission, I propose Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2253	Thank you very much. Who's to be a gentleman in front of the Serbian people, well, sorry, sorry. In front of the Croatian people,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2254	In front of the Croatian people is Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2255	In front of the Croatian people candidate Mr Tomislav Limov. In front of the Bosniak people, Mr. Čengić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2256	We suggest Mr. Halid Genjac. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2257	Thank you very much. In front of the Bosniak people is Mr. Genjac. I've got one more thing to explain, so we'll vote. 15, right? It's the House of Representatives Assembly. I ask these candidates we will now vote on to come to the 15th and wait for the candidates of the House of Representatives who will be appointed for approval, and to agree to this law on March 15th, which means then that because the House confirms it and it goes in agreement. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is it that Mr. Boško Šiljegović, Mr. Tomislav Limov and Mr. Halid Genjac are members of our committee for the alignment of this law? Who's in? Osman, I don't see you. So it's important to me. So we unanimously adopted this commission's proposal. I doŠiljegović accept your voice like that. Thank you very much. Well, we're a little tired now, so let me get by. Please forgive me. There's something else. We'll be done. We've done all this well so far. Until then, all this, so I've gone through it out of nowhere, my dear mother. So this is how we move to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad.7. The proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH, first reading, is proposed by the Council of Ministers Grubisic, are you the promoter? Here, Grubišić, explain this to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2258	One of BiH's obligations to the Council of Europe is to pass a Law on the importance of public documents in BiH. The BiH presidency thus concluded in 97 years that the law needs to be passed. So I'm saying this for a reason that you've been waiting a long time to pass a law like this. You have here obtained with the materials I am law and reasoning and you see that this, on occasion, solves four situations this, when it comes to this law, i.e. public documents in BiH. Let me also point out that, therefore, the House of Representatives has adopted this law with certain amendments. If there are questions, if I don't take a lot of time away from the MPs as they've been working for a long time, I'm willing to answer. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2259	Thank you very much. So the legal basis exists, here's how Mr Grubišić explained it to us. It's all right. The House of Representatives adopted this with four amendments. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? So, thanks no discussion. 52 I suggest that this law be passed in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you very much, so the law is, did I see well unanimously. I didn't see if it was you, thank you very much. Unanimity adopted. I suggest we do the discussion in the second reading, because the predstavnički of Representatives did it. Look, the House of Representatives did it. We didn't have an amendment. So there's no reason why we're giving up on this, and I really suggest we end this and go to adoption after the House of Representatives adopted it to Šiljegović. So, do we have any idea who's in favor of adopting the law in the second reading? So unanimous, excuse me, who's against? Who's restrained? – 2 Please, since we adopted the law in different texts, we had no amendments and that House, so we originally passed the law, the House of Representatives passed a law with four amendments, which immediately means that the law was not adopted in the same text. I suggest we set up a committee and ask the gentlemen of the Croatian people to propose a candidate. Don't do the same thing, I'd like to do this because we're so long gone. I propose from the Croatian people, please, I will Spajić who is from the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2260	By the authority of the club president, I propose to this committee of Mr Tomislav Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2261	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2262	By the authority of the club's pedsmen, I propose Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2263	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2264	By the authority of the vice president of the club, I propose Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2265	So, we have a proposal, we heard who, if we agree with ___________: Shouldn't we take 15 there, 53? [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] You don't have to. So do we agree that these are ours, our law enforcement committee? Who's in? - 14 for, who's against? Who's restrained? - I'll burst out of your modesty 13 for, 2 abstentions, we adopted that. Here you go, Mr. Grubišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2267	The law since it was now a vote to go to another reading. [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2268	Yes, the law is definitely passed. You can't do this, tired man. The eighth item of the agenda is Ad.8. A report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period from 1.06 to 31.12.2002. You received a report from the Commission. The House of Representatives adopted the Commission Report. I'm opening a debate, and here we have a colleague from the D.A.'s office, and I think at this point, except for what's been said in the report, there's no need for anything more important to talk about, but here I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2270	Here's a short one for me on behalf of the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee, which discussed the Attorney General's Office's work report as the Commission responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2271	Please, colleagues, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2272	I'll be brief, I won't bother you. We're all tired. So the report was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, received it, we held a broad debate on this report, and as a result of this broad debate, at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee attended by the Advocate General present here at the 54th session of the House, which I warmly welcome, we asked that the addition of this report be carried out which you received this, in the original sense. The supplement is the result, the request for addition is the result of the debate on the Constitutional-Law Commission and we have asked to see in a clear transparent way what these are procedures and what are absolute amounts, so the values of the disputes, in which proceedings, before which the courts, where BiH is sued and where BiH is the prosecutor. How many such cases, which are worth, in relation to which nature this one, is in administrative proceedings and these administrative cases in relation to BiH as a defendant and as a prosecutor. Objects conducted in front of the Constitutional Court and the Human Rights House, then executive cases, executive cases where BiH is the perpetrator, the perpetrator and where it is the seeker of certain claims. So, we've also received legal opinions. We have received a very extensive addition of this report which is one three times more extensive than just a report with all the tables, where we can really all get into this, in each of these issues, in each of these disputes, is it litigious, is it administrative, etc. Is he... domestic, is it in BiH or is it some kind of procedure with elements of abroad. I've been reviewing this report while there have been some discussions, while we've had some breaks. I am quite like the person who chaired the Constitutional and Legal Commission where we held the debate on this report, satisfied with this supplement and I ask the House to discuss this report and accept it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2273	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. And I feel the need to say at this point that this is one of the better reports of our commission on the work of one of the institutions that are obliged to submit a report to this Parliament. Indeed, here we should also tell our colleagues from the D.A. to thank the Commission for this, as the Commission has said, for a serious and orderly and high-quality report. Here's to this friend, Dragica, I think it means a lot, and now I'm putting it to the vote, are we adopting that, excuse me, rather than getting that report and we also think it's very good. Home adopts, sorry. Who is to adopt this supplemental report as explained by the President of the Commission. Thank you very much. So, what's the last point more, Dragica, please come out now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2274	Dear Chairman, delegates, or MPs, it is my honor to welcome you on behalf of the Attorney General and on my own behalf. I'd like to thank you for the support you gave me today. It is a great obligation for the Attorney General, a great challenge and responsibility. We hope to respond to all the demands made by the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, the Council of Ministers and all the entities that we represent by law. We hope the next report will be even more quality. Of course, in my report, I finally said 55 program orientations, and the D.A. will consistently implement the programme’s programme orientation goals. Thank you again, beautiful.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2275	Thank you, Dragica. It's the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Conclusion on the need to draw up uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions, gospodin Filipović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2276	Gentlemen, the chairman, here's a brief one, so I trust you had time to look at this conclusion that was part of the material for today's agenda. Thank you to the College for accepting a unanimous decision by the Constitutional and Legal Commission that prepared this proposal for a conclusion, asked the House with the hope that the House would accept this conclusion. So, this conclusion is the result of a debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and with a prior agreement with the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and with the previous work of a working group that has been under discussion until the proposal of this House, on the need to adopt in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly whether the code, whether the rules, whether or not the law, we will see how this project will be called, which would in a unique way, be regulated by the methodological, uniform principle, approach, principle, legal regulations in BiH institutions. With this conclusion, we ask you to give the possibility to constitutional and legal committees that will continue to work on making such a project that we do not know what it will be called. The working version of this proposal concludes that these are the rules. There are countries that have it regulated by law. Some have called this a code for making legal rules this, so this would apply, and this would be binding whatever we call this act that we are going to bring, we will certainly have, we will try to have legal power, to oblige all the institutions in BiH with the recommendation that, such rules as we make in the Parliamentary Assembly, bring and lower levels of this, the authorities to bring together legal acts throughout BiH, because for these reasons we are all familiar with here with the forest of various regulations that have been made, various pens, various approaches, various different groups and we are faced with various legal schools that are objectively here in BiH and we simply have to be precise, pedantic, if we want to respond to the task of being both professional and professional, and to be in the spirit of science of nomothers which means the production of legal regulations. So, that we have nomotechnically arranged in a unique way legal regulations in BiH. I ask you, therefore, to support this conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They're forcing themselves this task to prepare it for themselves. It would have been good if the Resord Ministry had done it. We talked about whether or not we got one opinion from the Ministry of Justice, there was a lady present at a session where 56 Justice Department doubted, in fact she said that it was responsible for it, but two that there might have been such a regulated legal rule slowing down the process of making legal regulations. The question arises if there is a law, how to sanction someone like this, if regulated by the law of making legal rules in BiH. Please, fine. The sanctions will be prescribed, those who are not professional, who are not capable, who do not know their trade, are quite craftsmen, let them do some other work. And may the urgency and passing through the Council of Ministers, the resolution ministries to Parliament be through expert working bodies, through expert groups to prepare the laws for this Parliament. So I appeal to this House to accept this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2277	Here's Mr. Grubišić, please, Mr. Grubišić, Deputy Resort Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2278	So, I won't be long, it's really late, just to say this. So, the Justice Ministry was against a proposal that appeared before the Council of Ministers to resolve this issue in a way that obliges them to enforce power. I said that, I think, the Ministry of Justice stands at the fact that it is not binding then on Parliament and that we believe that Parliament should bring with everything Mr Filipović has said. Finally, the laws are being adopted in Parliament and we support the initiative to regulate and support the initiative to even lower levels, so entities and the Brcko District and cantons in the Federation, this, as this practice has been said in the EU, come together. However, I would like to suggest one thing. So, the Justice Department will fully engage here with the people of the constitutional justice committees. I would like to suggest whether one such working group is now being formed with constitutional and legal committees, or whether it is going to be concluded with constitutional and legal committees, to be people from the Justice Ministry or from the executive authority, so that we can work this matter out together, because we really do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2279	(?) He didn't come out for a pay phone. You get your people ready to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2280	No, but to be a commitment by Parliament to commit, to say that we determine people, you understand. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2281	Thank you, Grubišić. Here's the Secretary of our House to say a few sentences about the problem. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2282	Let me tell you, on this task force she was. He was also the president of the Justice Ministry and then it was agreed that the Council of Ministers in its own way, the Ministry of Justice of the Righteous Service, not at all, would join the working group. And in some ways, an agreement has been reached to be there from the Constitutional and Legal Commission by two persons, from this secretariat to be, to be from the Council of Ministers, so that one working group would prepare material for the Constitutional and Legal Commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2283	What secretaries, what secretaries?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2284	Parliamentary Assemblys, to be secretaries of the respective constitutional-legal committees, would be secretaries of the home
ParlaMint-BA_2004-03-05-0.u2285	Please, thank you very much. Please, I'm putting this conclusion to the vote. So, we accept by knowing right away, the task holder is our commission and the House of Representatives. They will hire experts from the Council of Ministers in the way they think they should do it well. Who's in? Thank you very much I thank you colleagues and all those who have been a little angry as my colleague Spajić, I thank you too. I can't go any further. The session was completed at 6:00 p.m.
