ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12841	I am opening the 37th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests have been invited to the session, as representatives of international and non-governmental organisations accompanying the work of the House, members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I welcome once more all representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, as well as honored guests. I once again ask you before moving on to today's work to check your cards, if you have them properly placed. I find that today's 37th session of the House of Representatives is present at 36 MPs. Justice was sought by Mr. Elmir Jahić, Mr. Filip Andrić, Mr. Živković Molorad, later Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. That's what I have as president so far. So I'm realizing that we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, you've received a draft agenda for the 37th session. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Hazim Felić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a agenda item, given that at the last session of this House we have appointed a Commission for Text Consensus, I propose that we put on the agenda today's session the Joint Commission Report of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House on the text of the Law on Police Officers of BiH. We had a Joint Commission this morning, we agreed on the text, and the report will arrive later and please join the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12843	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Hazim Felić. Who wants to move on? No more. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. On behalf of the College, I think I can say 2 that we can suggest that this report, since it is agreed to be included as the last item of the agenda, that by then we get in writing a report that has been agreed and that we round up the agenda. Do you agree? Okay. However, I propose that we vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda, means a report by the Joint Commission in accordance with the Law on Police Officers. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote, now. All right, I thank the MPs and I agree that the House of Representatives unanimously, with 31 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, accepted the proposal to supplement the agenda as proposed by Mr Hazim Felić on behalf of the Joint Commission both at home to comply with the text of the Law on Police Officers. I thank and realize that the 37th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 2. Proposal for a Bill on the Completion of the Law on High Destiny and the Prosecutor's Council, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 105, is required by MP Nikola Špirić. Rules of Procedure, 3. MP Nikola Špirić's request for consideration of the BiH Citizenship Law proposal, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, 4. Council of Ministers' request to consider draft law on bottled drinking waters of BiH following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a Law on Mediation Procedure, Second Reading, 6. The appointment of a member of the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs, instead of Mr Hasan Muratović, 7. Giving consent to ratification and under (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the United States of America on the protection and preservation of certain cultural heritage, under (b) Agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of France on the reciprocal improvement of investment protection, under (c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the visa waiver of holders of diplomatic and official passports, under d) Agreement on Free Trade between BiH and Romania, under (e) Convention on the Protection of Persons, in view of the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flows, and under (g) Amendment number II to the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, in view of the automatic processing of personal data relating to the supervisory bodies and the cross-border flow of data, and under (g) Amendment No. II to the Credit Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Development of BiH and 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the Single Text of the Police Officers Act. Thank you very much. Moving to point one, that's ad.1. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure have given you this law that was immediately passed to you. I call on the chairman and the mandated representative of the Council of Ministers, Mr Doko Foreign Trade Minister at the Council of Ministers of BiH, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12844	I would like to thank Mr President, the honourable MPs, in front of you there is a proposal to amend and supplement the Customs Tariff Act, complemented by the last proposal we had at the previous session of the House of Representatives, where in this proposal we have completed with these ratios that we have established here for certain categories of meat and where we have complemented this proposal with a decision adopted by the Council of Ministers at the last meeting, which is necessary for the implementation of the measures provided for, amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act. I can say that, that these changes are only the possibility of a legal framework or an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to intervene in this sector of agriculture. We have also been given the responsibility of Parliament to do all we can to make this agriculture sector competitive in relation to production and processing from neighbouring countries with which we have free trade agreements. This proposal was agreed in the framework of the work group, which also has representatives of entity ministries in its composition. agriculture and which are...representatives and state border services, the Department of indirect taxation and representatives of the association that are right now and guests at this session of Parliament. If there is a need and they can address and express their views on this issue because it is certain that the best practice is that those who are practically connected in the most direct way to this area and are interested in this solution and can also fully defend their interests rather than be represented by some other groups who say that what is now proposed is not practical in their interest. I can point out that there are, therefore, representative associations and poultry and representatives of the association dealing with pig farming and meat processing, so that, if necessary, they can address this meeting. Me for a start so much. If there's any questions, I'll get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12845	I thank Minister Doki. Mr. Mladen Potočnik came first, please, sir. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12846	Thank the chairman, the resolution of a segment is certain that it is necessary and it is certainly justified to request these would be said by the manufacturer and processor. However, the segment does not solve the overall problem of BiH agriculture and economy. For this reason, I suggest that the Council of Ministers deal with the problem in the package. Therefore, not only the adoption of the Law on new tariff groups but also the unilateral termination of the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries. Only a complete solution can provide normal protection and normal development of BiH's agriculture and economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12847	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Who wants to move on? Mr. Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, please welcome Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here's to take a break until no one answers, and I'll give you some more clarifications. So, at the Expansive College, some club representatives were talking about the Council of Ministers being pushed by a long-term project that falls into the Parliamentary Assembly and then in the same form we return it. I just want to say that we have carefully analysed the discussions that were held at the last session, when the proposed amendment and addition of the Customs Tariff Act did not receive support. We have made certain changes in the legal text itself, so what justifiably the MPs asked to see what the ratio of quotas is to avoid the possibility of traders and buyers actually using this more favourable import regime. So we've put all of this into the legal code itself and we've given you one more text of a decision that should this amendment and the law be applied to obtain the necessary majority to implement that decision. I can't do anything again today that I've already spoken about this pay phone two or three times. So this decision is not the product of thinking only of the Council of Ministers and of our cabinet looking at things. This decision is a product of the work of the committee formed by the Council of Ministers in the middle of the year, in fact, at the end of last year, it is run by a resolution minister, Doko, the entity ministers of agriculture, the Director of the Veterinary Office, representatives of the customs service, the DGS, representatives of the Association of Agricultural Producers and representatives of the Processors' Association. The working group looked not only at the problem of the lack of these individual categories of meat on the BiH market in primary production that makes it impossible for processing capacities to work normally and eventually develop, but also has been tasked with proposing to the Council of Ministers and the measures needed to implement to reduce the negative impact of implementing the Free Trade Treaty. So it's not just this measure that's in front of you today, the product of the work group. We have adopted several measures that are internally character within BiH institutions that represent the relationship of the RES, the Veterinary Office, the Council of Ministers, the State Border Service and Customs, etc. and I think we have been very successful in stopping such a devastating one, the impact of implementing the Free Trade Treaty on primary agricultural production and processing in BiH. The Director of the Veterinary Office should also come to explain what this 5 working group is all about. That is why today we have invited the gentleman present and they are the meaning of the Council of Ministers' decision of the working group. I know there are other associations and other BiH producers who spoke to you in writing before today's session saying some about, some against making such a decision. But at a time when we tried to have an open dialogue with everyone interested in this structure, in this matter when we formed a task force, these people had not appeared from the very beginning, the people who today will have the opportunity to turn to you, are those who were both interested and gave and accepted our idea that in an open dialogue between all the interested parties we would come up with the necessary measures. I must admit that we probably have too much negative energy in the media and too much pressure and all of what may be this, is not perhaps but certainly not good for any parliamentary procedure for any parliamentary democracy that BiH wants to build. But I also have to admit that in this House we have political options that correspond to an atmosphere that is not stable, that I don't use any other words. I will ask MPs of at least those parties, which make up the parliamentary majority, to seriously consider hearing the representatives of the Council of Ministers, as well as the representatives of the working group, and to draw their conclusions on the axis, rather than on the basis of discussions of those who would probably be this one, and to want the primary producers to process the closures of the border and thus to come up with negative tensions in the country. I will honestly say that the Council of Ministers has no authority and I'm involved... in agricultural production, these are the intelligence of entity governments, I'm involved for two reasons. The first reason is that objectively entity governments do not pay enough attention to this problem or the position of agricultural agricultural producers in BiH, and the second reason is that I simply do not want to run a government in a country whose citizens go to the border and make a mess, make obstructions and are in a position to impose some rules of conduct, so I ask MPs in the first row of the parties that make up the parliamentary majority to seriously listen, to think and to support this kind of project. Surely it is only one measure that will not dramatically change the position of agricultural producers in BiH, but surely this is a measure that will allow a part of the funds to come to these primary producers, that entity governments with preleuments are doing what they should do and what the idea itself is and were introducing a levies, which is to go for direct support for agricultural production. We wouldn't be talking about this today. So this is a measure that allows at least some money to come directly to those agricultural producers who can and who have the resources to sell to the processing facilities in BiH their products. I'm not gonna motif how much it is, but I'm sure it's one of the measures. Secondly, this situation today also shows that this country needs the Ministry of Agriculture at the state level and not as an icaban but as something it coordinates, something that the ministry has full powers to create a agricultural production policy in BiH. 6 The Council of Ministers is to respond to Mr Potočnik, the Council of Ministers has formed a commission, in fact the Council for Agricultural Production, Forestry, etc. And that's as much as we can do under these constitutional and legal powers. So there are also ministers in this council, resolution ministers and all those who need to do this, who are thinking about the perspective of agricultural production, but without the Ministry of Agriculture at the state level which is, in principle, our EU condition is not an official condition but a normal sequence of things that should happen in BiH. We simply do not have the legal or constitutional powers to get more involved in the problem of the development strategy of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12849	I thank Mr. Terzić. Business intervention Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12850	Unfortunately, we have heard from the prime minister that they will not be potentiated, we were just expecting a bit of potency and we were immediately told here that the forces of chaos are the ones that need to be recognized today in parliament because otherwise they come to blockades and so on. So, I would ask, if it had been a misunderstanding, to tell us who was invited here today, since by article 53 of the chairman you are calling, by article 54, you give the floor. We want to know who's invited, by what criteria, what's divided into the people here, is what's come to us selectively divided, and that we know what every MP has in front of him divided from material, so that there's no misunderstanding here? So I'd like you to tell us who was invited? Who called on the rules of procedure so that we could do and what was divided between us, and I pray that in the beginning, it went wrong. In the beginning of any quantification of argument, the accused are already called chaos forces, and in the ruling coalition it is obvious to wonder who is the power of chaos, who isn't, I won't talk about it. Please don't let it go wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12851	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. So I don't see what went wrong here, and I reject that anything went wrong. Mr Resolute Minister and Mr President of the Council of Ministers explained their request. The MPs now have the opportunity to take part in the debate and to show themselves about the request. As for the procedure, therefore, all MPs received the same material. So there is no difference between members of the parliamentary majority and others. This morning, I was assigned to the Enlarged College to share everything that came from the request with all the MPs. It is a letter from the Alliance for the Protection and Promotion of Animal, Peradarian Production and Production of Cattle Food, then individual assumptions that have arrived. So, what's said at the Expansive College, please whether it's about economic chambers, associations or individual demands, that all MPs get. As far as the calls are concerned, we have been told by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and no one at the Expansive College has questioned that, apart from the Secretary-General, there will be members of the working group who have prepared these solutions. Beyond that, we as a college, and neither I personally as chairman, have called on anyone and I think that House 7 can decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether someone will give a word outside of the Council of Ministers, and everyone else is present here as guests, citizens, and I think that's okay, and that's enough information that we can continue if you're satisfied with Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you very much. Now we have the next order of reports. First, Mr. Belkić answered, and then Bešlagić, and then Mr. Avdić, that's the order, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12852	... colleagues to contribute to the atmosphere, so above all, to the working atmosphere. We understand these statements by Mr. Minister and the chairman as a sort of argument regarding the decision of this home regarding the procedure. So, I have reported the most because we are directed towards the procedure, that we should leave the content of the debate itself and in essence if we come to this and I want to say here now that the Party Club for BiH will support the Council of Ministers' request that we discuss this law today under Article 105 and we will determine the content when we discuss the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12853	I thank Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Belkić, I apologize. The word is Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12854	Well, I think we'd better get to the bottom of the procedure, and here's before the plea, I'm just gonna ask some questions. Here we have, at least in front of me is 2.4.5 with one material of this 6 means documents where I just tried to do a flash analysis. So we have the position of the RS Chamber of Commerce asking for this material to be rejected. Secondly, the letter is the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation asking for a change in the customs code, which means they support if you change tariffs, means that you have is...meat and other meat means that you wouldn't fall under this, which I can't figure out whether they're now pushing for this material to pass or not. I mean a simple question. We have third material from the manufacturer “Koko Djada” Koka product where it says this law is for destruction, that is, this process for destroying domestic production. We have a fourth memo, it's probably this producer I think that we got today, which is.....to add quotes from the papers is where they support that this law is passed, so this is now we can say not yet solved. At the end of this bill, we have a proposal for an emergency procedure where I have to say that he has certain changes in where he relates, meat is given, and where I think that if there were a clause that would exercise control and what sanctions are for those who violate this 8 I could even consider as a solution. But what I can't accept as a solution is that with this decision that we would make today, with the last paragraph in paragraph 3 in fact gives the Council of Ministers the right to change these quotas four times a year, or rather to multiply this quantity by four. So I ask you that in this meaning we go to a statement and then here are these questions if I get the answers we can change our mind or agree on opinions, in this way we give our maximum contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12855	Thank you very much, Mr. Sead Avdić has the word now, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12856	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would also like to reiterate in this previous review perhaps one position of this Parliament, which is that we have reached one assessment, that the economic and social situation in BiH is extremely difficult, that BiH's economy in particular agricultural and food industries cannot withstand a game with economies of neighbouring countries and that I am not talking about the highly developed countries of Europe that surround us, that we must go towards simply protecting domestic production, that we must act or access measures so-called. State interventionism as one measure today is here before us, and in this context, the view of this Parliament is quite clear from the aspect of relations to the simple economic development strategy of the particularly agricultural and food industry. Therefore, these are more strange statements that send their own messages to this House. And I ask that this House House of Representatives, one of its conclusions, otherwise, unless those who wrote these statements simply plead the opposite. And in fact, this morning it came to Avaz to say that all of us who do not support such a proposal are enemies to us, so it is a party, individuals and any company. According to this, we are informing you, chairing and informing all representatives' clubs as well as whose party does not support this we will call this individual and this party an enemy of agriculture and thus continue to block parliament continuously until the resignation of these MPs and that parliament. And I am now asking the Council of Ministers whether it is a partner in making this decision, whether the Council of Ministers accepts simply what is being told to parliament this morning, whether it is pressure, blackmail, what it is according to the BiH Parliament. Whether the MPs, the electoral base and the political will of the people are protected here, how the Council of Ministers can simply accept what it says and propose a law that simply stands behind it in some way, I ask for a statement from Mr. Chairman. The Association of Farmers who wrote this, what do they mean by that? If this is pressure, blackmail to leave this room right from the same rate, I'm out of this room. Which means, I'm asking the Council of Ministers, which means please first, that's the question. Then we can have a dialogue. If there is no equal dialogue, if they have blackmail, we have nothing to talk about here. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12857	I thank Mr. Avdić. I think his intervention was absolutely in place. Before I give my word to Mr. Terzić, I'll say something as president. So, this is a constitutional and business home in which decisions are made in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and no kind of pressure or any non-principle blackmail, cannot limit the work of this house and I and, on behalf of the home, reject, if we need a special conclusion we can formulate, we do this responsibly and we need to respect all legitimate interests in BiH. And it's supposed to be the atmosphere of working here and we're going to nurse her and let the others determine according to that kind of work and we're going to do it in our part. And I thank you because I really think it was useful at first. The word was asked before Mr Gligorić and then Kunić, Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12858	I must first say that I do not agree with Mr. Chairman in agreeing with the honourable representative Avdić. I don't know why they'd call the Council of Ministers for what came out today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12859	Please, let's hear from Mr. Prime Minister's office. He can get a word when he asks. I gave him my word and we didn't call the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, we were already talking about the atmosphere and the environment in which MPs can be pressured. I have nothing to do with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12860	First of all, Mr. Kunić, I am very unhappy to go out and I did not ask for a word because Mr. Avdić requested a statement from the Council of Ministers by today's articles. And if you think I'm enjoying this, then you're 100% wrong. So the Council of Ministers absolutely first, has nothing to do with these articles and second, absolutely condemns any pressure. There's only one small difference between the Council of Ministers and the MPs in this room. Since December, we've had these pressures, we've had requests for some shifts since December, etc. And since December of this month, we have not been subjected to these pressures. And with all the members of the association's representatives who have been writing since December, but it all ended up at the Council of Ministers not coming to you. We made it clear and loud that I told them while I was chairman, the street won't write the laws in this country and that's why we opened dialogue through the working group, that's why we're working through this working group all of what we're doing. And if you ask me what I think about it, not the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers needs to sit down and talk about it, I, as chairman, think it's embarrassing for this country and for our parliamentary democracy. But it's simply full of freedom of the media, it's full of freedom of expression to everyone and believe that we feel it best on our skin every day. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12861	I thank Mr. Terzić. I think we've discussed this now, that this was correct at first both by Mr. Terzić and Mr. Avdić. We're moving on to the content of the debate. The first is Mr. Gligorić, so Kunić, so Mr. Moranjkić, come in. There's a order, I read the three, I think it's enough to prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12862	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government too. I would like to say that today we would be working under one particular circumstance and that it is not good to create such an ambience in parliament that should work on the basis of pressure without any difference in which it was and on which side it came. On behalf of our club, on behalf of Professor Kunić and Mr Blagojević, we really have an understanding for each individual, for every institution, for the association in BiH, in netizens, cantons in municipalities, and on this side we really understand and respect and interpret the same requirements. I thank my colleagues like Bešlagić, Avdić and those who spoke earlier, who quoted in fact everything that we in parliament received from different individuals, associations, associations, institutions, chambers of commerce and would not speak about it, appreciating your time, but at the same time I would just like to add, of course, that I share an opinion with Professor Avdić but I would stress in this act that he quoted, also the last in which he stands. If this proposal of the Council of Ministers does not receive support at the meeting on 21 April 2004, we will immediately go to the streets and invite all agricultural friends to join us and ask for the resignation of the Council of Ministers who do not have the support of parliament and any other demands from friends of agriculture, we will accept and even those friends who give us support in parliament. I think this is a very important question because in some ways Mr. Usorac, Mr. Hadžalić and Ivanović have said a lot in this act and I am trying to understand you. But in fact, you have asked a fundamental question, which is whether the Council of Ministers is getting up based on analysis or large words, or what we have adopted strategies in the fight against poverty in BiH can solve specific things, and thus agriculture, or yours, when it comes to meat production. I don't think Mr. Terzić is here either, but he always goes somewhere when I speak regularly, he shouldn't be playing the future or someone new or current Toni Bler, but rather simply seeing in this country how to feed her, how much we need a ton of cabbage, onions, potatoes. He would have to know how many stone cows there are today in BiH, whether we can feed this country, not that it deals with large and world politics, everyone wants to be Anan Annan and the rest, but rather do the normal ones, whether you can provide in this country based on an analysis that can confirm how much we need, miss and what our internal capacities are. I believe that the Council of Ministers has accepted practically ultimately your demands because when I say so, I must be a real man to look at the other side, which is that 192 livestock producers, signed statements that are also in this Parliament that if we accept the amendment, it means these tariffs, they will have to choke as politicians say and that those families themselves will be in a state of social need, etc. And just like you, they're threatening to use radical measures like the street to protect their rights. 11 What Did We Get From the Council of Ministers? We get that we need to fight each other, the associations, and the other is obvious, you say here that everyone wants it but objectively on the other side of people's signatures, the statements say the opposite. This problem that's opened in BiH, who hasn't solved it? He didn't solve the Council of Ministers. These are economic issues that need to be resolved, not that any damage to which an appropriate decision is made. The relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers is also very important in this matter. We asked the Council of Ministers at the last session what they should do and did not act at all in terms of certain analyses, parameters, relations, etc., but we got the same decision again, and Mr. Chairman Terzić said at the Extended College that they changed it, etc. I argue that, except that they have only given reasons in terms of implementing this decision to themselves greater powers, that in this way they are practically doing or offices what they could not or should regularly do to Parliament. That is why I think the big problem is that the Party for BiH has already said it will support it and I think it is because of the leaders in the executive government who simply order MPs in parliament and tell them you will accept it because we have decided and we have come to the situation that nothing has changed and that MPs are changing their decision and it is really not correct. I believe that parliament must have its dignity, must have its authority and must have its principled position, both Parliament and each individual. If anything new was argued, it wasn't actually proven in the meantime. And at the enlarged college, Mr. Terzić said big words in terms of whether there is crime, bribery, corruption, whether it is importing European garbage, etc. And that's the kind of thing that just goes over it. As an MP, I simply have a dilemma as to whether there is really a certain possibility in this case that someone can agree and put it in a parliamentary procedure and that everything is going towards one goal, creating an interest in a particular lobby that this should be verified finally by Parliament. When I say so, I also ask the Council of Ministers if they allowed the individual decision to import meat, is there one contingent that did so on the basis of their decision? If so, to explain and of course they need Parliament's cover for something they've done and I don't think they have the right to do. And at the same time, if everything is as it is now said that we're going to be so great at this and I'm talking to you that you represent and that thesis, as to how to put it, the ratios are agreed. The deal's always at the expense of someone. You said there ratio 1-2.1-3.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12863	Please, Mr. Gligorić, to address the Council of Ministers and the College, they are the promoters of this...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12864	Since you, Mr. Chairman, invited them and, as Mr. Terzić said at the enlarged College, that he would give them his word, that they would speak, then it is perfectly normal, they said, well decided this parliament, as far as I'm concerned, some people are saying but I respect that part. May the Minister and Mr Terzić first answer me about these previous questions. And why is that if it's agreed, why won't that product be cheaper? Is that what we're going back to the analysis of whether 12 Council of Ministers did it? So if you give someone certain benefits, why didn't you, at the same time, why wouldn't it be cheaper in the end product and what we're talking about harmonising rights, what does the Consumers Act mean, about people that we in BiH are putting at health risk in this way. These are all questions that should have answered. And that's why Mr. Mladen Potočnik is right when he said this is one segment and needs to make practically one more serious, more responsible approach to solving the overall problem. And he argued today he didn't say it, but earlier he said or apologized, perhaps, in the sense that BiH can take a unilateral approach, that it revises free trade agreements and, in some way, within six months and something more, which would suit you all in that case, absolutely all of us, that this issue is settled in one quality way and that is a permanent solution to that problem. However, here in these agreements, certain interests are clearly seen, and I therefore believe that all those who participated in this did not have any concern that BiH should be arranged, that it should stimulate agricultural production, transfer responsibility to entities that are here opposed, which do not stimulate agricultural production through subsidies and otherwise, that these absolutely people do not have the possibility of competition. It should not be a matter of criticism from the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, but of the coordination he has the right, which should include the BiH Presidency, to find interest, because I think that the priority in BiH is how to feed this population and how to employ the capacities, rather than to deal with the Mikips now like this, some kind of information that we don't have a natural predisposition for, but we have these. And that's why I'm saying, someone can get along or disagree with my discussion, can be subjective to accepting it the way he wants it, but there's no good will here. There's no good intentions here. Individual interests are above the general public interest. There is a power here that does not have the opportunity or does not want the parameters and analysis to lead to a final proposal on how this issue should be resolved in BiH. You cannot do this half-page, with 5 changes regulated in BiH as proposed by the Council of Ministers. So I ask you, on the other hand, to keep in mind this discussion and I think that the question could only be solved in one quality way, which is to return to the Council of Ministers, to return all the factors back in the meantime and to come up with one more quality proposal. So, I say to you, since the invitation to the assembly majority is so given by the prime minister and who will appear to be this simply fulfilled, which of course tells of Parliament that we are on the remote control, practically we only on important issues when it is sought by the Council of Ministers. On the other side you will get street, roadblocks and Mr. Terzić will not be able to walk by car again. What do you get? I suggest, that no one should go out on the street without stimulating these people, and that the mafia lobbys that exist in BiH, we put our brothers in one context of responsibility, in the sense that we put our institutions to work on that part of the job. All of you here know that you can control both the association and the individual and the institutions. And you in 13 of these years have experience in how you can control it. I ask you, finally, that this question if your razor is a agricultural producer, together we shall engage and resolve this issue at 13 above all their satisfactory find first of all, and then in the interest of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12865	Thank you very much. We have the next situation. Before Mr. Kunić, who is next reported, please, Mr. Kunić, I have four applications for business intervention and replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12866	Indeed, this Rules of Procedure should be changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12867	I agree, but that's the way he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12868	Well, these are absurds in this congregation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12869	So, Mr Belkić's business intervention, for the replica Palavrić, Novaković and Zorić. They've been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12870	Mr. Kunić, I...a lot of time, so the Party for BiH MPs' club in an apparent failed attempt to bring us into a single working atmosphere, tried to force a decision on the procedure. So, we asked to move to a decision on the procedure and along the way I said our relationship to the request in the procedure and nothing more will be sent to Gligorić. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12871	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12872	Thank you very much. I just want to replicate to Mr. Gligorić and realize that this is how one who has never put himself in the skin of a agricultural producer can discuss himself in his life. As long as we analyze six more months, they're not just suffocating chickens, but everything they produce. And I think it's time we started really solving the problems of the people who chose us here. And what Mr. Gligorić claims to have said to Mr. Terzić at the Extended College is not true. Mr. Terzić called for a debate conducted at this session, at a session of this house, a previous time and said that he expressed garbage, crime, accusations must be justified, that we finally do something to stop such charges without arguments. If they have arguments there are prosecutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12873	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Novaković's replica. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12874	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I will replicate two things. First of all, I sincerely hope that Mr Gligorić did not say some things here, or that he is aware that agriculture is in the jurisdiction of the entity. I hope his call isn't really an invitation to change that, and that's exactly what his discussion went in that direction. And therefore, I sincerely hope that he is not fully aware of what he was saying, or that he had no intention of entering that area. Secondly, it is this, my suggestion now to someone who loves and doesn't often have a chance to give lectures, to make an O.R. here where these people can come out for half an hour, apologize and come back here and then constructively discuss proposals that are on the agenda. I also ask the College that we discuss the procedure of the law so that we do not enter into the essence of the law until we declare our position on the procedure. After that, we can discuss the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12875	Thank you very much. We only have one more replica, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12876	Here, I'll be right up to my colleague, Novaković. So I support and report for the word earlier, I support the proposal here now and Mr. Novaković, Mr. Belkić, to discuss the procedure. And I hope that Mr Glrigorić didn't mean HDZ when he said that the Council of Ministers has leaders and they tell their representatives, we think so, and you have nothing else to think about. That's not the case with HDZ, I hope not with other parties, if you hadn't said in the plural, I'd think you're just thinking about the BiH Party, because Mr. Belkić was talking about it. But since Mr. Gligorić has a desire for us to replicate him, and then he will again, he should have talked about the procedure, and he was talking about the law, the production, the mafia, everything and everything. So, I'll use this hall that Novaković is talking about, when again in the replica Mr. Gligorić and Ini Gligorić are giving us a lecture here, I'm going to go outside, I'm not going to listen to it until we determine the procedure because I really don't have the need and I say, HDZ will support the 105th procedure and we at the club, because we respect a dgurje, we'll agree on how to vote. We respect most of it because the club means some kind of community, some kind of belonging not to the same. If the three of us here in the four of us think differently from me, I'll also support them when we vote, and we won't go ask any leaders. If I were mean, then I could tell Mr. Gligorić and you have a leader and if you don't support this, it's because he said don't support you at all costs. But I'm not mean and I'm not gonna say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12877	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Kunić. Replica Mr. Gligorić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12878	As usual, the same target, the same distance when I discuss it, the same people from the national parties, their bosses, and then they turn it around, returning to the beginning, returning to the procedure. I would respect your position on the procedure and Mr. Novaković and Zorić and Palavrićka, etc. and Mr. Belkić, if you had said that at the same time, when the chairman also spoke to the minister who spoke about the content of the law, etc., if you wanted to do that border, then I would have said that you people are the real ones who are basically talking about this thing, but you yourself have done the same thing at the same time. Of course, Mr. Zorić now said that it was my best time to produce certain effects. It wasn't really my intention. At the same time, Seada said Mr. Terzić didn't say that. Of course I wrote it down, but it doesn't matter. The fact that you expanded what he didn't say, so you added one piece that would be really quality said but that's what Mr. Terzić said. Since two heads have to think, in order to possibly come up with one quality proposal, I appreciate that. At the same time, Mr. Novaković, who said he didn't listen to me until the end. You know, we're all into words first, and when I speak in general, then he forgets that I said to coordinate the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, it's their constitutional obligation, and that way through coordination, with relevant factors, those in charge at entity level, for certain areas of social life, can come up with a common solution. And I should have understood, you should have understood me means in that context in which I spoke. Therefore, I would not want anyone to take me wrongly about these leaders, nor what Mr Zorić HDZ singles out in all this, I really think in the package when I talk about national parties, about their brotherly embrace, about how they will eventually also listen to that button from the Council of Ministers and vote today. I just think so, and here we wait half an hour or three hours and you'll see that I'll be right. Therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12879	Mr. Gligorić, time three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12880	I'm sorry, this is what I'm done with. Thank you, I'll still be right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12881	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12882	Thank you, Mr. President, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12883	So let Mr. Moranjkić prepare, then Mr. Novaković 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12884	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I will therefore express my view on this matter when it is opened at first if this shortened procedure is accepted but related to the procedure to say the following. This Parliament has been very conscious of the importance of discussing these matters on two occasions. And that, the debate was very broad, very content. I'd say very rational. And decisions on this matter have essentially been made, but it pushes on, and there are still some things that kind of confuse me. Mr. Potočnik, who is a member of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, has taken more than I have, I am the chairman of the commission, and in due course, when the debate on this issue was launched, I have said that I am frustrated, that the Council of Ministers is bypassing the commission. I must now conclude that the Council of Ministers is bypassing this committee on purpose. At one of the meetings on this issue, I insisted that this was going to the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, today we heard from the Chairman's Council of Ministers, that they formed their committee, of course I did not, and indeed when people of different professions are involved, and who are experts, who make decisions, should be expected to have some effect and that decisions will be better, and that they will be able to implement themselves more effectively. However, I ask the question whether such a question that is very important goes beyond the scope of the Commission's reach. Maybe this commission wasn't intrusive enough. We're nice people. We often report, often we don't answer, or we don't pollute, but my point of view is now firm, that this issue has to go to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Therefore, I have no idea to support this law, and I will talk about the content later when the debate is opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12885	I thank Mr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Moranjkić, so let Mr. Novaković prepare himself, so Mr. Križanović. Business intervention, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12886	I really know it's a story of procedure but I had a need to intervene. And I've often wondered why, here's the second or third time, or on several occasions, I'll remind you only in recent times twice that we have proposals to amend the Customs Tariff Act, but I'm very surprised by the president of the neighborhood not to call the commission on its own initiative. I am a member of the commission, but I must say I am truly surprised that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, regardless of how Parliament is determined, has no position on the portfolio to say, the area which is and how here we see and given the atmosphere created. So, my colleague Kunić, I really appreciate your involvement, but you must really be a little bit and self-critical as chairman of the commission, here I am, a member of the commission, self-critical but I can't call the commission. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12887	Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12888	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that such a law, or such a problem expressed in this law, is taking this course and taking this course. But what is it, it's here. Dilema whether to accept the procedure or go with the debate, I do not think the college has responded to the interventions of some fellow MPs, which I take as my right to go and to debate, that is, part of my
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12889	Please, Mr. Moranjkić, let's be correct. So, we didn't want this, to stop the debate with the MPs, that doesn't mean now that we need to go outside the decision-making process. We'll open the debate in the second round, let's be
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12890	But I'm interested, all of whom have so far spoken except for Mr. Kunić, who has strictly sought part of Belkić, were all part of the debate. I'm interested in why it's not broken, or I'm looking for my position now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12892	Should I speak or wait for procedure so we can make a deal?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12893	Me, it's my suggestion to wait, if you only have a debate about the measure of the law, to wait for us to plead out the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12894	Then put the procedure on the agenda, and me, register me as registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12895	The procedure is on the agenda. I'm asking you really to hold on, you know you're all sensitive if you're interrupted, it was just mutual respect and that mutual respect should allow everyone to respect each other. Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. You'll get your word when there's a debate. The next gentleman, Kunić asked for a replica. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12896	Here, I must say, this is the first time I've replicated in this House. So it's been a year and a half and more, but I'm sorry it's a lady too, I'm sorry she's a lady. Perhaps the lady wasn't present when I insisted and demanded the last time, that this question must be addressed to the commission. However, because this parliament did not have enough hearing for that, it is not my fault. The college determines the competent committees for individual questions, so I didn't, I asked the secretary about this question, is there any signal for us? The secretary said there's no signal on this issue. Therefore, that was why I said that this commission was deliberately bypassing. So, I'm in this parliament requesting going to the commission. That's why I couldn't accept this, this criticism. Maybe it's Mrs. Azra, she often comes out to smoke a cigarette outside, maybe she's out there and she hasn't heard, but here's the chance I'm taking.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12897	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Come on, please, let's hold on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12898	First of all, I'm very sorry that Mr. Kunić is sorry that I'm a lady. That's what I have to really say at first, it's a little bit like this and it's funny, but I'm guessing there's no need here to be an economist or to do things that concern foreign trade and customs and not to wonder why a commission called the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs has not met. No matter who he is now, you're the president, I'm a member, there are other members of that committee here, but by definition I'm talking, I think. That's one thing. And secondly, since this, such proposals, so this is already what I think for the fourth or fifth time, and I myself have been a proponent of such a proposal, and they are also intruding into that fiscal character, it is quite logical that the Finance and Budget Commission also discusses this issue. Here I am now checking out my colleague Kragulj, but he says they haven't met either. So we have no position or opinion to discuss the procedure of any commission. I asked the chairman of our club since I'm not constantly in the Prallament, if there were any indications that the Resorna Commission would meet, therefore for foreign trade and customs, however absolutely nothing. This was only one finding or replica on the part of the discussion of counterpart Kunić from a moment ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12899	...this, to make a record in this time, this is a replica, again Mrs. Azra has allowed herself to say that I didn't ask that question. And from what you've heard, I've asked that question and I thought it had to go to the board. No, I can't accept this finding. So, I'm sorry that you're a lady, I didn't mean you in that sense, but it's harder for me and the ladies to polish them in some way, because maybe I respect them more than this, come on, Musketeers, so you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12900	..in the procedure debate, Mr. Novaković, here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12901	Dear colleagues, since we are in the process, I would like to repeat last time only this, two sentences that I said last time on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, which is my suggestion to the Council of Ministers to change the procedure with Article 105 to Article 104. That's what I asked for last time and the Council of Ministers didn't accept. If we had accepted that then, we would probably have had this law at the next session in the first reading, and then perhaps even in the second session. Unfortunately, I did not get a pass on this proposal, and today I also offer to the Council of Ministers to change the proposal from Article 105 to Article 104, and to give them the opportunity to do so, after a debate, to request a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12902	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word has Mr. Križanović, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Špirić, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, before I am also more specific about the procedure for the proposed law in question, please allow a few findings. I agree with those who say that in the context of this debate in the public, a very unfavourable atmosphere has been created in the media that can be seen as a pressure on parliament. However, I fully agree with Mr. Chairman that we have our dignity and this home and the Assembly and each individual of us, and that we cannot surely succumb to these pressures. The second finding is that this means that it is a very important bill, very important, which comes in direct contrast with our Rules of Procedure that we can consider and adopt laws of minor importance, simpler, simpler, etc. This also points to the fact that the Council of Ministers failed to learn from the session 15 days ago, when the house refused a similar bill. This also points to the fact that the Council of Ministers does not realise how strong the instrument in its hands is in the direction of economic policy and that such a practical problem does not solve a problem that this House has discussed when it comes to protecting domestic production and improving and promoting particularly agricultural production. For this reason, respected colleagues and colleagues, I believe that today if we decide to consider this law under Article 105, neither adoption nor refusal is a good solution. It is not a good solution because it does not solve the problem and because of this, I do not think it would be better if the proposer turned this request into a procedure of 104 or even regular procedure and that, while respecting what has been done so far by the RS and the Federation Economic Chamber of Commerce, along with certain relevant ministries, access to a more comprehensive, more comprehensive, 20 comprehensive tariff revisions that would indeed be in the capacity to protect domestic production and in particular incentives for agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12904	Thank you, Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12905	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, esteemed guests, I would like to say that only a few last speakers spoke of the procedure to regret that we lost two hours of unsuspecting wisdom without having the strength to enter into the essence. I wish there hadn't been an opening statement from the chairman, because unfortunately, he's the one who made it through today to get into the essence of things. I don't feel any pressure, to make it clear and loud about how I feel about the agenda point. I don't think it'd be good if the media didn't exist. I have a feeling that the chairman, because he feels like media pressure, would prefer that the media in BiH do not exist. It is fortunate that they are there and that they are transparently conveying what the social MPs think of the proposals. I mean, it's also not good to put ourselves today on the parliamentary majority, the wave and the opposition, of people who want chaos, who don't want good state laws. I have to say, I don't belong to the kind of group of people this House sees as chair. But it is also not a good call to say that parliament should decide on the basis of the Commission's arguments rather than on the basis of the debates of colleagues of reasoned debates that might be about this agenda point, and particularly not good, it did not convince me that the procedure should be voted on when he said he would not quantify. That something should happen to the unfortunate agricultural producers, but they're not sure what should come and how long it should come. And as state deputies, that's exactly what we want to know. And in this explanation where it is said that the aim of this law is to protect, or increase domestic production, the logical question is, as an MP, to ask how much? Will this measure, this law increase BiH's production and social product by 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.5%, what does this reflect on the state budget? What, again to the others when the speech... so that's what I'm interested in by respecting all the groups that are bothering this problem. The second thing, the procedure of Article 105 is never good for this kind of matter, because you're going to leave a series of categories whose documentation we also have here, so we have documentation that warns us that these disorders don't know their relationships lead to an unequal position, etc. But ladies and gentlemen, in order not to ruin the matter, I don't think it's an argument for an emergency procedure because Prime Minister Terzić has to go to Brisel and say we adopted it, it's what the state parliament adopted. So you don't need a victim there, you need quality there. So, I would very much like for us to reach agreement today on customs tariffs, all of us here, to stop a barren debate about who's in favour of state law, who is against state law, and that's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers, so on the trail not to put our finger in each other's eyes by estimating the effort and time that certain categories of agricultural producers have spent coming here today, that they have understanding. So, that the Council of Ministers has the understanding for this proposal by Mr. Križanović, Momčilo Novaković, to allow a shortened procedure. Because what's going on? If two chambers of commerce, two entities say none is satisfied and take or leave the procedure, so the key action doesn't leave out of this, and their consent is important, I have to tell you that 21 is important to us Members of Parliament that we decide. So please, if you need a 15-minute break, I will be against Article 105's procedure because I want to talk about the essence. But if we appreciate today that we don't have the majority to adopt this, don't make one story that won't result in what's the state's interest. So I think, as far as I can see, so as far as I can see, and as far as I know in this House, there's no mood. Don't let us adopt procedure 105 and fall. So I ask the Council of Ministers to allow a brief procedure, to invite all actors and those who have addressed us, to come forward with a proposal agreed to be supported by the MPs. So, I'll be for that principle. It seems to me that the procedure of a 105th member on such a serious matter, no country has, especially if things aren't consistent. Unless she has a high degree of consent. So, I support Mr. Križanović's proposal and my colleagues, Novaković, and I have to say that I won't be, so I won't support Article 105's procedure, because I feel that the tariff is going to fall. So the tariff law feels like it's not gonna go away, and that's why I'm looking for an opportunity to adopt it. So my intervention is to adopt this, not to pass today, and then have political stories. Thank you very much, and if he is a member of 105th, I will report to you on the essence of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12906	Thank you very much. We have two more to discuss. So Mr. Zorić, Mr. Potoćnik, did you call again? No, Mr. Potočnik's giving up. Mr. Zorić, so Mrs. Palavrić, and we're closing the debate on the procedure. After that, we will give a break so much that we can combine other obligations of the MPs and that we can decide, it leaves time for clubs to consult and the Council of Ministers to determine what was in the debate. I ask Dom here I have another request from the representatives present at the session, by your rules of procedure you don't have the option, but if you think you should, I'll ask Dom if it's someone else's, but I think it's said enough, but here's the thing, if you're staying at your request to turn around, you're staying. _______; [[Common discussion]] Please, I suggest that just a little while, I suggest that Dom plead whether or not we are any of the representatives here address, ___________: [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12909	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12910	Mr. Kragulj, have you called for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12911	Let me say that when it comes to procedure, unlike some of my predecessors, who were trying to twist Article 105, I'm saying that this is really about a high degree of urgency law, which is the first condition of Article 105. And those who deny it deliberately let one lump of snow that was small and started to turn into an avalanche, and if we just compare today's situation with the previous session, so with the one around the new year, we see that rebellion growing and for a reason growing. I think it's all growing for a reason. I'm sorry that the agricultural producers have been revised to this extent that they wrote this letter about how they wrote it, but I totally understand them, because that I am in their skin and that I am producing, and that I have to keep somewhere in the freezers and spend electricity in suspense of what will happen to me or what they say I'm suffocating what I produce, I really don't know how I would behave, and I chose power in legal elections and I expect that power to solve my problems. In my opinion, don't decide today, and don't decide on this law, it's like being aware that a man has cancer and not treating him, because that's exactly what's going on for years that this problem isn't being treated at all. And since it insists that today I am not talking about the essence of the pre-proceeding procedure, I will just say that the Party Party of Democratic Action Club supports the procedure under Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12912	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. Still related to the procedure, Mr. Nikola Kragulj, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12913	Ladies and gentlemen, very short. I think we have before us a practical change and addition of one of the most important laws in BiH when it comes to regulating a single economic space. This is an emergency procedure 105. We need to know at least a few facts here that open up certain issues in some way. First, here it is practically opened through the change of this law the possibility of importing permanently certain products etc. The second thing is, the powers of the Council of Ministers are being extended because practically the Council of Ministers under this law gets the opportunity to approve quotas. Thirdly, we have no long-term or short-term balance of 23 effects resulting from possible imports. It is very difficult to explain in BiH today that imports protect domestic production and increase domestic production by such a logic to explain to people without the integrity of the measures set out on the trail and protection and incentives of production, it is very difficult to accept such a logic to explain this, to people this procedure in the House of Representatives, or this project to amend and supplement this law. And that's why I'm suggesting that we still consider the possibility of the Council of Ministers that this law goes according to procedure 104 in the ordinary procedure because I think, here only by this law, if it were adopted, we're just currently relieving one problem that we're rescheduling, we're in no way solving. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12914	Thank you very much. The SDS rep club has requested a 15-minute break. I'm the one who determines it. 10 to 12, we're back to work. There's no more discussion. We'll discuss the procedure after the break. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I apologize for the delay, we've been waiting for this, here's the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I think it's justified that this was a little late. And I suggest we give more words only to the chairman of the Council of Ministers before his statement. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12915	I'm really sorry that I had a meeting with the executive director of the AMF for BiH, Mr. Kremes. As far as I'm aware, there's a group of MPs who want the Council of Ministers to change the procedure and give up an emergency procedure and give up 104 in a shortened procedure. At first glance, this is about a chaotic situation, because one says you should, the other says you don't need one normal request, but what's it about? It is that simple procedures and voting of this quota and the application of this amendment and the addition of the tariff law would simply lead to the position of a particular group and a group of producers, primary producers, in order to make it unnecessary for them to benefit from such a measure within a month. I am sorry and I am clear that the decision on the procedure is not about the content of the law, so the representatives of the Council of Ministers working group did not have the opportunity to speak, but if they had had had had the opportunity, they would certainly have heard from Mr. Usorac that, for example, pig producers in RS now have 3,500 pigs prepared to sell immediately to BiH meat processors through the application of this decision. In a month, those pigs will rise and there will be nothing out of it. That's why I think we should also consider adopting a procedure under Article 105 and then then seeing and then getting members of the task force to have the opportunity to explain their views and to see whether this amendment will be passed or not. So, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we could accept it going by 104, however, here we are pressed by these deadlines and this fact that the postponement of this measure would lead to an unfavourable position of a group of meat producers in BiH. And if it insists that the Council of Ministers declares it or I chair the Council of Ministers, then I will ask a break of ten minutes for the task force to sit down and agree on what to do next. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12916	I personally think it would be a good idea if you didn't, before you made your decision. I, as chairman, ask you for understanding now for me and for the representatives of the House. I'm giving a break for 10 minutes because the matter is important, the matter is serious and let all the elements that were discussed in the procedure be consulted by the Council of Ministers and that in 10 minutes we have a position on the procedure. Please, here I think it's correct, and let the Council of Ministers come out with definitive views on the procedure. Here, thank you very much. So 12:20 p.m. May I have your attention, please? [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. I call on Mr Adnan Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to take his word. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12917	Well, look, since this is about the Council of Ministers' decision, I do not have the opportunity to change the Council of Ministers' proposal today, but I have the opportunity to insist that the request sent by the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives, the College of the House of Representatives, call for a member of Rules of Procedure 139. We asked for an extraordinary session, not because it's a whim, but because the situation is what it is, that it is literally respected and that we get an extraordinary session, that the College schedules an emergency session just with the agenda point that today is the first point. So, as far as I understand it, the Rules of Procedure, the Koligij is obliged to call an extraordinary session at the request of the Council of Ministers. So I suggest that on the next Wednesday or Thursday, the College call an emergency session and discuss this without you taking off the agenda today and interrupting the debate on this topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12918	I just want to inform this house that I have taken advantage of this business opportunity and called this session as such. And she wouldn't be today if there wasn't a request for this agenda point. Let me, I'll consult with my colleague to see. After consulting in the College, I present a proposal that we can discuss briefly. We have the 28th to also be a session in which, given that such a request has been made, the Secretary General of the NATO Alliance would address it. So, there's a proposal here today to finish this session, to continue on Friday, when we normally thought to invite you, so that by then the Council of Ministers can hold a session and continue the debate if we have a different attitude, we can treat it, if we don't continue working today where we left off. I think it's constructive and business. And please I feel great responsibility for people sitting here and the situation and I don't want 25 things to break today, five days is a rational time for everyone here. I asked you to appreciate this. I'll dati you my word, Mr. Lagumdžija, but come on, I expect you to help solve this, too, this cold head and mind, and that the Council of Ministers can hold a session, so that all these arguments can be put on the table, so here is no Mr. President and Minister himself, the entire Council can also be made clear on the procedural requirements and will have time and time to consult. We're not questioning anything. I think we're doing the right thing. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12919	Is it on? To avoid misunderstandings at the next session, we need to clear up what we want to do today and what is expected of that next session. As far as we're concerned, we can have tomorrow, we're ready to come to an emergency session tomorrow, but we need to clarify what the Council of Ministers needs to offer us next time. Wait a minute, no, not very clearly. So, we need the Council of Ministers very clearly to give Mr. Chairman what he needs to do to us next time, to meet the three objectives that have been pursued here today, because otherwise there's no point. We will come again to discuss procedureally 104 or 105 and ask these people to take a break again for a few days because we were in this atmosphere in December last year when we reached conclusions that have not been implemented so far. You can't interrupt me. By the time I'm done, I'm having a discussion. Log in
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12920	We agree, Mr. Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12921	So let me explain what's going on with your proposal, your conclusion. There's no point just meeting without knowing what's going to happen in the meantime. So I suggest we figure out what to do by then.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12922	Oh, I said, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12923	I want to be very clear, that the Council of Ministers should consider what we will say for what we expect.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12924	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12925	Please, Mr. Novaković, really, here's the 26th.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12926	So, first, the Council of Ministers needs until the next session to create a mechanism that will allow economic policy measures to protect primary agricultural production. That's the first one. Second, to give the law before us,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12927	Lagumdžija, I said the Council of Ministers has plenty of time, it will look at all aspects, including yours. They have their own responsibility
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12928	You want to tell me what my point is?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12929	Well, look, we're now discussing the methodology of work, not the content of what they need to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12930	Well, I don't think there's a methodology without content, Mr. Chairman. It can't be a methodology without content. They need to know what we want them to do to us. Then the Council of Ministers needs by Friday next, or by the time, to give us what measures economic policies will protect the domestic processing industry. This is what I'm saying, Mr. Chairman, because we've entered the atmosphere today and I'm afraid if we don't agree that the next time it will be, that the Council of Ministers is going to come before us with demands and suggestions that confront two groups of people who have no reason to conflict. If this is the case, if we are to have the next session, to try to find out what measures are and what are the amendments to the laws that will respect both interests. If the Council of Ministers will just come out here with the promotion of each other at the expense of each other, they will lose both. And I really think that's why something should be done by then, because otherwise you'll be in a position where we were in the same position four months ago when we said the same things but then nothing was done but just digging further trenches between people who need to be protected from both sides.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12931	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I now comply with Article 25. I'm interrupting this session at our home's office. We'll continue working on the 28th of this month at 1000 hours. Until then, both MPs and the Council of Ministers should do what they have to do according to their own responsibility. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 1245 hours. 27 ...representatives, distinguished guests, we are taking the work of the 37th session of the House of Representatives. On behalf of the College, I thank you for your patience and understanding of this little delay with the beginning of the session. It was in the function of ensuring the necessary assumptions that today we can make a quality decision on the point, the first item of the agenda, that is, the request of the Council of Ministers to observe the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of this House. Before I give my word to the Council of Ministers, I'll remind you that we have a quorum. There are 37 MPs present, 25 from the Federation, 12 from RS, so we have a quorum and we can make a full decision. Another note, as you have received notice of the session at 4:15 p.m., this is where the Secretary General of the NATO Alliance, Mr. Šafer, will address us and I ask you to be in this section as well. On the very way of holding that part of the session, the College will hold a brief consultation with the club heads of all parliamentary parties. I am now calling on a representative of the Council of Ministers to get to know the House of Representatives about possible new aspects in view of the debate we had at the last session. The word is Mr. Doko, Minister of Foreign Trade of Economic Relations, please, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12933	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs, we interrupted at this item of the agenda at the last session of Parliament because the proposal for this law was proposed by the Council of Ministers to discuss the haste procedure and since we had no opportunity to go to the vote on the procedure itself, we are, therefore, or in fact Parliament has decided to interrupt this session and to leave one space time-limit for a possible agreement to reach a consensus on the law on amendments to the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Meanwhile, we have had several meetings that we have had for a reason to explain and to clarify all the proposed measures related to the reserves that are highlighted in the Parliament's session and which you give to MPs above all the Serbian Democratic Party. We have said that this proposal is an addition and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, such a proposal which does not result in changes to the rate provided for in the Customs Tariff Act, we have here a new chapter of the law called the Tariff Quotas which are practically available and give legal basis, assuming, above all, that the Council of Ministers intervenes in those situations when, therefore, these raw materials or these proposed meat categories which are not sufficiently available on our market can therefore be obtained from abroad at more post-war tariff rates. I cannot say to what extent we have succeeded in removing all these concerns, but we have always pointed out the guarantees that, as the Council of Ministers, we are ready to implement these measures to the highest possible extent possible by keeping an eye on all possible malversions that could arise primarily for the categorisation itself, where observations have been made that some categorizations of this meat leave enough space to be related to something else which is therefore not foreseen by these measures. This applies most specifically to chicken meat, therefore, related to the number 4 poultry meat cut into pieces, frozen, boneless. That's what we've been discussing for a long time, and we've tried to convince, I believe we've succeeded, but here's what we're going to see. So, that it can't happen to declare goods as meat cut into pieces, which is actually a shortcut for MOM raw materials used in the processing industry and that in fact there is some other kind of meat, file, butt or something else that might end up in the store and that would certainly result in our primary agricultural production being compromised. So, first of all, this is not the intention of the Council of Ministers, nor is the intention I believe nor the working groups here can tell which one was working in the proposals for making these amendments and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. In the implementation part itself, following the adoption of the amended amendments, the amendments to the law are only then followed by the real activities where we would be with these measures, and the Council of Ministers has already decided to implement these measures, therefore for a legal basis, not a decision to approve these contingents or these quotas. So we've already established ways to implement these measures. First of all, it can't happen that these amounts of meat are imported unless they're redeemed and not only redeemed unless they're paid. But I believe that it is already about it, and I am sure because I was at Parliament's session, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers informed the House of Representatives, so the instrument that ensures that primary agricultural production is encouraged, namely these proposed measures, in a way that achieves the right to import at privileged prices, in a way that first or first, certain categories of meat are purchased. So from the primary agricultural producers and this is essentially exclusively in the aim of encouraging, above all, the primary agricultural production. I hope that this Parliament will have confidence in the Council of Ministers and will vote on the amendments and additions to this Customs Tariff Act and will practically provide an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to intervene in those sectors, which have indeed, as we have identified many times already, the sufferings of the application of the Free Trade Treaty, where they face the BiH market primarily with more competitive and business and products from neighbouring countries. This is simply our obligation, and our opportunity, of course, must not in all of this allow us to use such measures for other purposes, above all we mean these measures that I just said about importing other kinds of meat, meaning that they are not raw materials in the processing industry and that is why you have really installed one instrument here in column 5 under other conditions where we have exclusively said that these quantities and these tariff quotas can only be used as raw materials in that processing industry. 29 I would like, once again, to call on Parliament to show the confidence of the Council of Ministers and to give this opportunity to intervene and help in the most direct, intervening way to our economy, especially our sector of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12934	Mr. Minister, just so you know, does the Council stay at the request for a procedure as referred to in Article 105?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12935	The Council held a session yesterday, we did not discuss changes, therefore, procedures because on this side I can inform Parliament, so the Council has not reached another conclusion. I, as Minister, can only give that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12936	Thank you very much. I thank Minister Doki. We're done arguing. I'm the one who concluded the procedure debate. We will now move to a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Beriz Belkić, I am giving a 10-minute break to the party club for BiH. We're continuing at work 10 to 11. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Does Mr Belkić, on behalf of the Party Club for BiH, want to explain the request for a debate? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12937	Of course it would be my turn to do it. Namely, the club asked for
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12938	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12939	So, despite the fact that we did last time, at the last session we were very clear and said that we would and we insisted that as soon as possible we move on to the point and said that we would support procedure 105, that is, support the Council of Ministers' request and we will do so today. But we expected that the College or the Proposer would, obviously, be able to comment on the fact that between the two sessions, we got all the MPs, I hope through the clubs, get a letter from the High Representative or, where the Deputy High Representative warns us that we have made mistakes in the procedure, that's one thing. In the meantime, we received at least a letter from clubs, I hope the College, a letter from the chairman of Parliament, etc. There are also certain things, the truth of the will we have received before a series of letters of various kinds etc. We have information that, in the meantime, our competent commission, so the Commission for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, has also held a session, so not a single word of comment on these circumstances. 30 It would be good to hear something about how we would, I'm saying this for discussion of content and procedure of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12940	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Doko, Minister of Foreign Trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12941	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I'll try to give you an answer. It is therefore a law on indirect taxation that took effect last year and its application has practically begun, with a new law where interpretations and opinions are really at stake, meaning how this law should be implemented is still unclear. We are of the opinion of the Council of Ministers, therefore, that it is about the Management Board's ingenuity in the context of the implementation of the rules. If the Board of Directors or the Board of Direct Taxation, has the authority to propose laws that are in the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade or let's expand and tell the Council of Ministers, then I think it is a parallel government that can propose some measures to Parliament. We are therefore, of the opinion that in this text of the Law of the Administration for indirect taxation of this authority only refers to that implementing part. That's what the answer to your question is, and I'd still take advantage of the opportunity, so I'd give an explanation about some limitations in terms of, therefore, accepting this law when it comes to quantities. I would like to say that these quantities provided for in the amendments and additions to this law are not those quantities that are a limiting factor. The most important assumption here is that everyone who wants to use the benefits, means preferential imports must first of all, but first of all, I want to stress this out from the primary agricultural producers of a certain quantity. And that's that first step, and it's going to be a limiting and limiting factor in all of this, which means most directly, that's the first step in implementing these measures. This will primarily increase the demand for our products, will naturally increase the price on the market and will increase safety and production. These are the signs and the immeasurables and will surely be the consequence of the introduction of these measures. Here, if you're satisfied with the explanation regarding exactly the indirect taxation, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12942	Mr. Nikola Špirić, second deputy chairman, related to the procedure. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12943	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, ministers, distinguished guests, namely, I expected that these seven days needed by the Council of Ministers would indeed be in the wake of what the debate here today is about to come up with something that is the solution to this problem. It is almost certain that today's stubborn insistence by the Council of Ministers can only boost a part of the doubts raised by MPs in this assembly. A colleague, Belkić, said on the table this morning, we received the position of the Federation of Representatives' House Parliament, in which point 3 is said. So, they call on the State Parliament not to accept this proposal from the Council of Ministers, so the procedure of Article 105 says: "And if, in the light of the law, it is said that consent to the proposed changes has been given by the relevant entity ministries, therefore, it is in what we have received. We came to the attention of the competent authorities that, on the contrary, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Slovenia did not give consent, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry of the Federation of BiH did not participate in the creation of the said law, since no proposal by the said ministry at the Council of Ministers' Commission was accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12944	Please, Mr. Špirić, don't... everyone's got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12945	So I expected the Council of Ministers, according to the memo, to be given to serious institutions, which are responsible for agriculture at the moment, to be able to get the strength to follow what we were talking about to create space for us to come to a solution. Thank you very much, and I think we should make a statement about the procedure at last, because we have concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12946	Thank you. The debate is, I said it's over. I can only say that the College of the House and this home has done everything to create space for further consultation and analysis of the consent and respect of all the important elements for the adoption of such a law. This was the ambition and interruption of the session, and I think that, in that sense, MPs have the elements to decide and, as the chairman, I am now moving to a statement on the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act be considered in accordance with Article 105. The rules of procedure of this house. I'm asking Dom to plead with the vote now. So, with 24 votes for, please written the results. With 24 votes for and 1 abstention, 12 against, the law has a general majority, the requirement has a general majority. From the Federation, she voted for 23 MPs, from Republika Srpska 1, so the law does not have the necessary entity majority and goes to co-ordination in the College. At the request of a member of the College of Breaks, five minutes. ... to consider this request by the Council of Ministers as referred to in Article 105. and as chairman, I am reporting and opening a debate on this bill for amendments to the Customs Tariff Act of the Council of Ministers. [[PAUZA]] Who's answering for a word? Mr. Mladen Potočnik, he's not here, and I have him reported. Mr Nikola Špirić, the second deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, answered the words. Here you go, Mr. Špirić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12947	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the honourable ministers, the esteemed guests, namely, at the last session, we held a full-time debate on both the procedure and the essence of the proposals that we have, so it was very difficult for us to decide, namely, to separate what is the procedure of the 105th and what is the essence of the amendments to the Law, which we received on only one page. I thought and just now I was saying, expecting the Council of Ministers' mood to simply have more hearing about what is called a parliamentary debate, that they would accept the shortened procedure, so the procedure of Article 104 and allow for the creation of the necessary mood and to make certain adjustments, to make, therefore, one agreement and agreement to come to an amendment to the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Unfortunately, I have a feeling, I don't know for what reasons, that the rest on this proposal, as the best proposal. I want to repeat today that from this proposal no one who wants to see the state of BiH, to see its future in this area, can deal with any number. The change in tariffs everywhere in the world is a serious thing, a matter of serious mathematics, a matter of different types of budgets and the confrontation of different figures, the attitudes of this to an expensive budget, according to other levels of the BiH budget, unfortunately, we only have a drying conviction that meat producers and primary producers, if we adopt this, are waiting for a better time. I must also say that the Council of Ministers, three or four months ago, made a similar decision and by the law, and I would like to, at least if the Council of Ministers went out to this home today with information as to how much imports were allowed to increase production in the areas for which they are looking for a legal solution. That would be quite logical, if we had received mathematics today and to say from January 1st, by March 31st, we also approved this legislative decision, so, at least that bill must be said, hey, gentlemen, you see that Council of Ministers' decision has raised domestic production by 0.1, 0.2, 0.5% based on the increase in production is pumped into the budget of the state, entity and so much money. We ask for understanding and demand an amendment to the law, because it has proved to be a good measure. Why isn't it there? No, because there's no such thing as a bill. I must say that we here cannot pass, therefore, in fact, but we must take a huge risk and go over what the Federation Parliament says, the warnings they sent, the association of farmers in which they say this is not good, that it is asphyxiation of the rest of the production, etc. So here comes a certain conflict of carnivores and primary agricultural producers. But I have to say that, therefore, the Federal Parliament has been having a debate and I have to go public to read what people say. So, they say, starting from an extremely difficult climate of agrarians, which, as well as possible harmful consequences, will arise if the proposed law is passed, the House of Representatives calls on the Council of Ministers to withdraw the law. So, a Federal Parliament is asking the Council of Ministers to withdraw, to enter into the process of reconciliation, to reach 33 of the best possible proposal. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as a mood, and I don't know what it's been spent in these seven days. There's even a reason here. Point 1. The fact that the Council of Ministers for the third time, while the Parliamentary Assembly has not adopted the same proposal, says they have not matured the conditions for the adoption of that law. In view of the fact that no balance of domestic production of the mentioned categories has been made, it says that the quotas occurred on an arbitrary basis. So that's what 51% of the state thinks. That these quotas are not a product of serious calculations, but of arbitrary sighting. 3. And if, in the light of the bill's proposal, it states that the proposed amendments were given by the relevant entity ministries, by checking in the competent authorities, we came to the knowledge that, on the contrary, the RS Ministry of Agriculture did not give consent, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of the Federation of BiH did not participate in the creation of the said law, since no proposal by the said ministry on the Council of Ministers' Commission was accepted. And, now here they call, of course, the fact is that the Board of Ministers' Agriculture Administration is formed, that the Council of Ministers' Veterinary Office has just begun its work, says that no assumptions have been created for quality changes in the tariffs and its application practices, no gistre of agricultural products, etc. Now they're pointing down. I'm ready today, so I speak myself, if the Council of Ministers comes out and says, on the basis of these amendments to the law, agricultural production, the rate of growth in the meat processing industry, is going to be so big and so big by the end of the year, it's going to have an effect on the social category budget, what kind of, to support it so that I can give a picture to the Council of Ministers, based on what they said. Based on this, we don't have any further intelligence. If we're gonna get in, it's gonna fail, whether there's gonna be a growth or not, it doesn't seem like even the babes know. So, I am prepared, if the Council of Ministers writes, given that they will not write it, because there is no bill, it seems that here will be the same relationship, at least my relationship with this law, but that they would really become domestic production and not only in this area, so, and within this point, I would like to discuss, I propose a conclusion to ask Parliament to make a statement. The following was adopted as part of the 1st item of the agenda of the 37th session at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with the aim of restoring and raising domestic production, is tasked by the Ministry of Foreign Trogovina, and within 60 days, the ban on exporting raw materials from... levels, which is the need for domestic processing facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So how is it possible that the Council of Ministers doesn't have naked cuts in BiH? How is it possible that everything that can be the economic future of children born today leaves this country? How come the Council of Ministers didn't think of that? 'Cause it looks like the pressure's on the export to take everything out. So if it goes on like this, let's say where the huge raw materials complexes are, there will be no life in certain areas for the Bosniaks or for the Hrvat or for the Srbin. 34 So nature will not allow it. And, please, we here, so as the State Parliament, we're looking for a serious resolution from the Council of Ministers and here I am looking for 60 days. If it's a little 60 days, let them ask for 90 days. Let them ask for 100 days, and let them do it. So how is it possible that all BiH wood processing factories, which employed 100,000 workers, are locked up from here, and that, say, now to Visegrad or I don't know to Mostar or to Banja Luka, will find thousands of mini sawmills that aren't even registered and that it all goes into export. Is that really possible, people? And, to convince us here today to say, here it says, under the sixth point of the Council of Ministers of BiH, depending on the situation on the domestic market, it can change the certain proportions of these imports, the one that Đula rots in pears, I don't like this one. I'm going to bring in some pork, some beef, some poultry, depending on how any of the powers approach the Council of Ministers. Secondly, I ask the question, is it really true that people are importing boned meat, frozen by 0.80 fencing chicken in BiH? Is it true that the warehouses of different bases in Europe have been cleared and that they are the subject of the consumption of this unhappy people? Any answers? Well, I guess someone should give an answer. I'm really sorry about the people who are really interested in adopting this. I'm ready today to support this if the Council of Ministers comes out with a clear bill. To convince me as an economist to say, please, if we import one to three, one to two, if there is a zero rate, production will grow at this rate, but by doing so, the Council of Ministers, if it makes a mistake, only prescribed itself a period of time, if there are the responsibilities of state deputies here for what is called the country's economic future. Because the time has come for us to stick to the economy, not some political message. I have to tell you, it's no wonder that, I've been talking about it, which in the prime minister's opening statement, let's say that the RS of all digits is just a date, that it was that day, and there's not a single digit on page 15-20. How is it possible to measure the government's work? So, please, I thought the Council of Ministers would take this seriously, sit down with all those who had reservations about this and on the basis of the arguments to convince that this is the best solution so that MPs don't bring us into different opinions. I have to say I'm not ready, so if the Council of Ministers doesn't come out with a clear bill, I'll support this, no matter how much criticism there will be in public. I think it's better to put up with criticism in a political sense than to make a bad economic decision that will cost generations who today don't know what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12948	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr Tihomir Gligorić was first reported for discussion, and then let Mr Mladen Potočnik be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12949	... ladies and gentlemen, last time I tried to say a lot of things, but obviously, in the Council of Ministers did not accept these suggestions, that they ignored the working conclusion of this Parliament, that this parliament was twice sitting in this regard, and that, meanwhile, the working group, mentioned by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, did nothing, but stayed on the old issues. And, not only that, they have asked, in fact, this 35 home to give them authority, to transfer jurisdiction to the Council of Ministers, and they have no jurisdiction to change this quota four times over the year. So in the meantime, they haven't done an analysis on how to solve this issue. I deeply believe that never imports were stimulating and did not help domestic primary agricultural production and, to convince someone who understood the question, that a relationship one to six can be in favour of domestic agricultural production, it certainly is not. I'd like to remind you. Protecting domestic production, so to speak, in the power of the Council of Ministers, but in the jurisdiction that I spoke of last time, then this representative home, entity, and all of this was predicted by the Roadmap, which routed the way out of the food crisis, which was defined by the strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we adopted, both here and at the entity level, and it became the law. In the Roadmap, the state committed to amending customs regulations and extra-tariff measures to protect key agricultural products from competing foreign goods, which are highly subsidized in import countries. What we have on the scene today, and did we respect what we have brought in this house, which has become the law, which is a suggestion of the Roadmap, in the sense that the primary production issue in BiH is being systematically resolved. Today, we have on the stage that from the chambers of commerce, from the entity government in RS, from here to Parliament in the Federation, from the commission in Parliament, who said that the legal procedure should be respected, in terms of what defines the law on indirect taxation and which is within the jurisdiction of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. A series of failures and I deeply believe that they are conscious, deliberate failures and I cannot understand that the ministry, which, above all, needs to prepare a professional proposal based on a professional opinion, based on certain parameters, has not done so. We also have representatives of the association here today, but at the same time on the other side, we also have representatives of the association who wrote to this Parliament and these MPs, their signatures and their statements argue that they will have to choke, as chickens say, and that they will personally and their families come into a state of social need and also believe that other measures will fight for their rights. And what we got from the Council of Ministers, that people who are in danger of helping, who need help, but in the way it says in the law, not improvising and some secret agreements. Help these people, so today these people can listen here and think of me as an opponent, or as they said in their memo to the enemy of domestic production. And I'm telling you that the real bear service to you, in a way that they would practically liquidate domestically, so to speak, cattle, production, because the opposite measure is to remove customs duties for the import of five tariff groups, slaughtered, as they say meat, which is frozen and cooled, and I have to say that right on this meat producer, after the war a few meat companies actually provided their development concepts, and today we have as some giants, and they did the same thing in this way, only that we forgot how they came up with these ideas, to develop their concepts. In this way today, again, several meat companies get from the state a gift worth 40 million KM, some claim that tens of millions, means, more than I say, but the Council of Ministers did not deal with such a bill, so that I say it is a bear service for our producer, and in return they would be obliged to buy domestic quantities of cattle: pigs, heroes, and that amount would be six 36 times less than the quantity of imports per zero beef customs, in the best case, to secure several thousand domestic heroes, and to remind you only the potency of one reverberate has tens of thousands of stolen heroes, and does anyone in this country want to talk at all? So what bribes do we buy from these domestic products? They think a couple thousand solves some problem in this country. The Council of Ministers, I said, is actually not helping primary production, but that is why they supported the interests of the meat and import lobby. I still called it last time to trade-mafian, etc. We approve of the import of meat, European, practically trash, and yet again, because last year the average price was 1.95 KM of slaughtered meat imported to BiH, which was below the price of live cattle, etc. Or that chicken seperate they call it, that goes into hot dogs, pâtés, etc. It's also below that. To conclude, I believe that the Council of Ministers has made a very superficial approach to this important proposal. This issue should be resolved, and I therefore advocate the protection of domestic primary production, I advocate as an MP that you come to the center of events, not at the margin of events, in the way that the lobby within the Council of Ministers suggests, in which, unfortunately, perhaps unconsciously and you also support a blind part of that cake, but it is ultimately at your expense, because it will abolish domestic production, because the state has not provided you with a subsidy, even 3% of what they had to and what they have committed. And, therefore, I ask you to understand that in Parliament, people who want a good system-based solution of agricultural production immediately support it, and that the Council of Ministers who missed time should be punished in the meantime, and when you are there to ask for their resignation, I agree. This is an incompetent council of ministers. They can't solve this question. I beg you, don't bet you're the protector of their interests, because they're interests against you. Spread that curtain. So you will see that you will come, unfortunately in that position. Today you can condemn me, but I want to because of my conscience and analysis and people who are dealing with this, who have said that this is not good for you personally, there are a lot of people who don't even see it at some point, but I simply have an obligation to all BiH citizens and for this, in order to be true, I think this is one bad solution, that this is one solution that has all the characteristics of organised crime and corruption in BiH, at the highest level of state, and I pray that Parliament does not fall into that trap and does not cover this kind of work. At the same time, I ask the MPs to get rid of their hypocrites and only by force that the Council of Ministers, if we can't change it or you won't, make them do a job for agricultural production and that within 15 days, and they know how they can do the right and fair measures, they just won't. We can sort that out. I don't say what OHR says in his letter, it's their attitude, this congregation majority listens to OHR, I often don't listen. Therefore, I want to think for myself and I do not think that this is a good solution for you and I ask that we do not make a conflict in BiH, because other livestock farmers and others will launch an avalanche in this way, and I would not want us to find ourselves, and we are transferring responsibility to this Parliament, where we will become on call guilty of all that some agreed policy has prepared for us, and we in this House need to support ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12950	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr. Potočnik. Let Mr. Kunić prepare himself. I ask all MPs, to bear in mind that we've had a chance to speak to everyone on many occasions, to limit time, but, here, to respect the overall weather situation. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12951	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and carnivores, we are now in this House on the back of politics, not political decisions. In fact, changing tariff groups is a tactics in an attractive strategy. Unfortunately, we don't even have the right strategy, but obviously we want to bring tactics by heart. In order to make some tactical move both in general and individually, we need to have data, we need to have a vision of what will result from making such a decision, and we need to have a complete solution. I understand fully that one segment of our producers is in this situation to put pressure on, by solving their interests, which is perfectly legal and normal, but I don't understand the Council of Ministers that since March of the month, when I spoke in this Parliament that there is no need to solve the problem of the economy and agriculture of BiH as a whole, there is no shift. The bottom line is this, and my proposal is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to protect and encourage the development of its agriculture and businesses, unilaterally terminate the free trade agreement with Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, and to help this group for the six months it lasts, to say the deadline, to accept those tariffs, and to make it easier for them to get to full protection, as well as for all agriculture and businesses. This is about tens of thousands of employees, and in BiH, we know it's much more, so we can't just focus on tens of thousands of employees, but we have to solve the whole problem of BiH's economy and agriculture. And if, indeed, we want well and in the interest of the BiH man, then we will accept this proposal. If not, then we'll just solve some partial problems, and we'll continue to sink into the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12952	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Kunić. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12953	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs. Someone has apostrophe in the meantime to the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, if we have a point of view, regarding this issue. Naturally, by Article 105. We do not consider the rules of procedure, we do not have an obligation to Parliament to express our views. But the opinion of most of the Commission is negative, when it comes to this, the tariff proposed by the Council of Ministers, therefore, is a negative point of view. One part of that mood was expressed by Mr. Potočnik. I'll try some more things to mention. Indeed, it concerns the fact that the Council of Ministers so insists on something that is not fully reflected. And that's almost all those who discussed it, 38, so this problem is not entirely seen. This compliment has devoted a great deal of time to this problem. I think this is the third session we've discussed. Of course there's a recognizable conflict here, there's a conflict between agricultural producers and processors. So this is about these questions. The Council of Ministers, obviously not seeing the problem as a whole, accepts an interesting group and favours an interesting group, which is not good. The lobbying in the world is known and I understand people who lobby. So, their interests extend in various ways, they require Parliament to adopt their demands, which is a normal phenomenon, but I do not understand the Council of Ministers and his views. The Council of Ministers must objectively complement the situation and look at the state interests as a whole and, in this sense, make decisions which in this case is not so realistic, evc in some way, the cheerleader insists simply that this goes through Parliament. Is this asphyxiation of domestic production, I think it is, for sure. There's no dilemma. I would remind you of what this House has concluded, I think 24.2. o.g. related to agricultural production, that it is required of the Council of Ministers to make a change in the tariff on all those items that restrict the stimulation of domestic production, of repromation and others, to collect imports of goods, which soon expire, and to impose certain duties on those goods which are competition with domestic production and which are subsidized in their countries. So, with which data is available to the Council of Ministers, which are goods that have subsidies, which are very much used in this space. So you see that the Council of Ministers, not to mention other conclusions, which are very good and it seems to me that Minister Doko did not read these conclusions thoroughly, because he never mentioned them once on three occasions. This is what Parliament has concluded. And that is the obligation of the Council of Ministers, and in this sense I agree with someone that the Council of Ministers must have more hearing, must not cancel the views of this parliament. Parliament is becoming dysfunctional, the Council of Ministers is becoming dysfunctional. And then we have additionally to look for additional ministries, and the Department of Trade, the foreign trade, has proved very dysfunctional in this case. So, there are contradictory things going on in this space. That's why I'm gonna be and that's why I'm against the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12954	I thank Mr. Kunić. For correcting Mrs. Arza Hadžiahmetović's wrong quote. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12955	I have a short need, I suppose, that a report has been submitted to all MPs on the proposal for a law amending the Customs Tariff Act, i.e. the minutes from yesterday's session of the Foreign Trade Commission, perhaps an clarification, or, I don't know if I understood Mr Kunić well. However, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs did not discuss at all the content of this amendment to the law, i.e. the proposal for a change of tariff law, from a simple one, not because it was said to give the impression that most of the members of the Commission had concluded this. So, just correcting one, because we have concluded on the second draft of the tariff amendment law, that we respect the procedure, which was sent by letter from the OHR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12956	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, the word has Mr. Petar Kunić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12957	I would, of course, ask Mrs Hadžiahmtović to listen to the speakers, or those who discuss in Parliament. So I specifically stressed that we were not discussing this law, but other laws, because we are not in charge of this because we are not an authorised commission, or the Rules of Procedure do not give us the opportunity to discuss this law. So listen to me when I'm talking about not having replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12958	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12959	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Mr. Chairman, working presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I ask the Presidency to bring this item of the agenda to an end with a lot of sensitivity. Why am I saying this? Because this point exceeds its importance and scope, because it is said that if this practice is established in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, believe me, it will not be good for parliamentary democracy as a whole, for the development of democracy as a whole, for the development of the representative system as a whole, why I am talking about it. The illustrations work, you have before you the position of the Federal Parliament, where most of the parties from this home are participating, and you can think of people from one party in the Federal Parliament voting for one another, and here they vote for another. This is indeed a crisis of parliamentary democracy in BiH, the most obvious example of the crisis of pragmatic democracy. We'll see what the vote will be, but I'd like to beg and plead to reach a political consensus on this issue. This is a question of people I assure you more than the scope of this law. Less damage will bring about this legislation, which has been passed, than it will bring damages in terms of BiH's development, as a whole. The CAFAO recommends that the decision taken by the Council of Ministers shall be legally unfounded, the Council of Ministers shall perarad and propose to the Council of Ministers for one kilogram of purchase of chicken meat referred to in paragraph 4 that the Council of Ministers make up the customs duty for that one kilogram. It's the best way to find out where we are in the peradar industry and if we have any reserves... and whether our domestic poultry industry is manipulating the reserves... in BiH. Do it, there's no problem. When the domestic reserves are exhausted, you seek, simply a contingent of imports, simply for the purposes of domestic production. Is that a problem? What's the problem? So there's no answer, two professors signed that document, so people can't ignore it. It can't just be ignored. Two professors, here I am reading here, Rajko Latinović RS and Professor Dr Abdulah Gagić on behalf of the BiH Peradar Union. Next, several other subjects. Entities' chambers of commerce are also not in favour of consent to this law. The Federation's Parliament warns that the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry has not been consulted, not a single proposal entered into the law by the Ministry of Agriculture. What does that mean? So someone has deceived this parliament, misinformed it, if it's a material lie, then somebody should be held accountable. Parliament must not be misinformed and deceived. I'm reading this as a 40 relevant document. There's no one who would have convinced me otherwise. They were not consulted by the Ministry of Agriculture entities. Who said that and who will be responsible for the deception of this House? So, gentlemen, please don't mess with this country's future and the state of democracy's development in this auction. I ask you what the position of Parliament means is quite clear, to repeat to you three months ago, the economy in BiH, the small market economy, as we say so, etc. cannot withstand a free competition with the economies of the surrounding countries. He can't. In this situation, a state protectionism disorder is being introduced in countries in transition. One of these measures is the time we're talking about and it's not and these MPs sitting here are aware of it. So we're not against state protectionist measures to protect domestic production, but I'm asking you nicely, someone has spread milk across the borders of this country, border crossings, where in this law is the protection of primary milk and milk processing? Aferim, if you were just taking care of the carnivores. But I ask you where the protection of the dairy industry and the processing industry of milk in BiH is, and milk is spilled at border crossings, demagogy, where in the law, the most difficult problem BiH has no milk and milk processing. There's no acid water. Where's the acid water? What we're going to do with it is give this country 65 million marks for importing mineral acid water into BiH. So where's the law? Where in the law is the detergent industry, which is from Tuzla, Tuzla Canton, for a year and a half begs, explains, sends you elaborates to protect the domestic detergent industry. Just look at the ads before the diary today or these days. Look, they're decomposing our detergent industry. He knows how much Dita's capacity works in Tuzla, with 20% capacity. Of these 20% capacity, so the industry it produces, you know how much it places 7-8%, and the rest has to be exported. Now, gentlemen, that's sad. That's more than sad. Your concern for the protection of domestic production is a missed investment. Don't worry about it this way. Give a system of systematic measures, simply to offer this Parliament a complete simple change in the legal, or customs tariff. And, secondly, in order not to repeat again, this decision, taken without political consensus, voting, etc. It will be a decision made under pressure for the first time in post-day BiH, under the protection of lobbies, for the first time in post-day BiH, under the simple pressure of the Council of Ministers on the BiH Parliament, under the pressure of certain associations of farmers, who have not sat down with other associations to discuss and agree on their position, so, please, the proposal of the Federal Parliament is next, to withdraw the law from the procedure. That's what I, as my constituency, have to respect, I have to respect people, I can't behave differently here, and the entire Federal Parliament and my constituency is sending messages you can't adopt. How do you ask us to adopt that at all? How. How can it be asked of MPs Sead Palvrić, where her club and apartment voted in the Federal Parliament for this member and the conclusion signed by a seen member of the SDA party, and here to vote in favour. That's not gonna work. That won't work. This parliamentary democracy is against parliament and democracy, against the simple elementary functioning and action of the parliamentary majority. Thank you very much. The same goes for the BiH Party.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12960	I thank Mr. Avdić. I do not want to use the position of the chairman here now, to comment on Mr Avdić's statement, which is certainly both designed and reasoned, but as far as the crisis of parliamentary democracy is concerned, I think 41 can talk more about the crisis of political relations in individual parties, because as far as this House of Representatives is concerned, I do not see that we have also questioned one element of the House's dignity, we have made it possible to discuss all the options, the Council of Ministers, we have allowed all the relevant information from all concerned, whether it is state institutions, entity institutions, whether it is other organisations and interested in this process, so that I am obliged to make this district, while accepting the recommendation that we are leading this debate with the most possible respect of arguments and bring it to an end and decide, on the basis of the arguments. Thank you very much again, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mrs. Palavrić, and let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12961	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, but the man simply doesn't know where to start today. I think the saddest fact is that we need laws to put pressure on or not to bring them, as Mr. Avdić said. It is sad that under the pressure of the primary manufacturers we bring or pressure from someone else we do not bring or pressure from someone else. Also, one predecessor said that we need to act the way it says in the law. Well, this is exactly the proposal we want to enable to act in the way the law says, because now the law does not allow the Council of Ministers to intervene in this area. Before that, we forget that at the level of the BiH state we do not have the Ministry of Agriculture, which would take care of the entire agriculture and this segment, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Trade is concerned, we forget again that it is a small segment in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and that it does as much as it can, and in this context it does through the BiH Veterinary Office, that the garbage is not imported in BiH. So, let's get information from the Veterinary Office and see what he's done in the previous period. We have here a letter from the Federal Parliament. No matter who signed the letter, who made the decision, I would be happy that entities and their parliaments did their job, because the agriculture ministries in their domain, the subsidies of agricultural producers are in their domain, the processors are in their domain. So this is where we only intervene on customs implications. And it is a fact that the Federal Parliament did not say in this letter, that agricultural producers, the primary one, receive some ten or eleven percent of the gentlemen, and other resources solve other problems. I'm not saying that other problems don't have to be solved, but they don't go there, which is why the levies were introduced. So, don't tell me now that those are smart, entity chambers, what are they doing up to the Council of Ministers' proposal? What are they doing all these years to make people make producers and processors go out on the street? Where were the chambers of commerce? I really wonder where their constructive proposals were? No Niko's done anything. Now that we have a situation that included the Council of Ministers, if nothing, I don't know how much emotion, and how much humanity, but it's turned out that people aren't going to the street. Free trade agreements were good for us while they were positive for BiH, and since we haven't made preparations for the application of the zero rate, we're not good with those agreements now. We can't be like that. In the world of globalisation, I'm a lawyer, economists know it better, but I don't think we can act like one. 42 Therefore, that the entities have ordered and concluded, let them keep to themselves, or let them choose to do their work, that we may not do these things. When it comes to what someone said about the reprocessing and import lobby. I don't know if it's a lobby or not, but if I was a processor, I'd probably turn off my emotions and take it from where I'm cheaper and they do it. What's our problem is the fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the most expensive thing is to produce anything we produce, it's a fact. It's from El. To the corn, to the chicken, to the calf, to the pig, to the cattle, as long as you want. All ours is the most expensive and therefore in other countries there are subsidies to what we are, what people are interested in. What is the essence of this decision, the proposal for a decision is the fact that the Council of Ministers, therefore, proposes that the state give up customs duties on these meat products, which are foreseen by this law and in the situation where, as I said, when processed, I will not tell the lobby, but the world of meat processors in BiH has a choice to buy cheaper on the world market and has no obligation to buy any gram, not a single gram of meat from a domestic producer. I'm asking you if we have a right to sit still today and say what we care about let that state continue. I don't think this bill is good at all. I feel that he is under the pressure of the processor, but what our people say to the processors they want, so they can condition it, but the fact is that the processors agreed to this, along with the manufacturers and that the processor if he wants to export one kilo of pig meat must buy two kilograms from the domestic producer or for chicken and beef if he wants to introduce at least one kilo. I know it's small, but it's something, it's still something, it's going to buy in this period it, it's going to allow people to start new production, as one of the people from the agricultural producer's association said, it's going to make it possible again for those with meadows to sell their snowed, their corn, everything they need to feed both chickens and pigs and cattle. So it's a shift. It's less evil than leaving the situation the way it is and the evil being immeasurable. I can't afford such luxury, gentlemen. Call me as long as you want. I put myself in the skin of him who buried it, who turned it, who doesn't know where he's going with it, the one who fed it and cleaned the cattle, and now he doesn't know where he's going with it, I put myself in his skin. So, the fact is that, as I said last time, this is just about shutting down the fire and giving some air to domestic producers and meat and domestic food to the cattle to breathe. It's also an expression like I said possible, only possible. At this point, I'm happy to meet the manufacturers and, if it's just a drop in the sea. But it allows both of them to plan their production so that both those who produce chickens and pigs and cattle know how much they will need and can produce and how normal and rational it is to produce, that it does not produce at this time, until better times come. It also allows one who provides food for cattle and enables them to plan their lives, allows that requirement, which requires us to make BiH's agriculture policy transparent and predictable. So this is what makes such a policy possible. It brings us closer to the conditions of meeting the 16 conditions of the Physibilities Study and not to speak, not to take too much time. I think that simply not because we are pressed on something, primarily because the entity governments and entity parliaments and the entity chambers and because we do not have a competent ministry at the state level, I suggest that we support this bill that the Council of Ministers has delivered before us, and in order to meet other requirements, I propose that, with the adoption of the law, we adopt two conclusions. In doing so, I don't mind even suggesting Mr Špirić's conclusion, but my 43 first conclusion is. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes that within four months, I think that in four months we can have effects, which will be seen. We will be able to see how many of the domestic producers have been bought out of all these three kinds of meat, what is the result, possibly if it is necessary and how much is it, is this a good way, therefore, that within four months of the law's entry into force, this law, delivers a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the effects of this law on the primary agricultural producers. The second proposal for a conclusion, a proposal for a second conclusion, within the same time-limit as the competent ministry in the Council of Ministers, is unfortunately again the Ministry of Foreign Trade, or the Council of Ministers, in co-operation with parliamentary committees on external trade in both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, is to deliver a proposal for a full solution in this area, in the area of agricultural production and its protection and in the area of local raw materials processors. I believe that with these conclusions, we are putting out a big fire today, and we are allowing all those analyses that I agree we are missing here, which entity authorities should have and should deliver to us, if they don't already solve the problem, to make them, and that, if this isn't, and in four months we're going to see the right way, if it's not a good way to come up with a better way and in the name of the Party of Democratic Action, I, indeed, call you as people to view these people as people who don't have anything to live on, people who have chosen us to solve their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12962	Thanks to Mrs. Palavrić, I ask that the conclusions be delivered in writing. The situation is next. Replica Mr. Avdić, and he blames Mr. Špirić, so I must give the word to the Rules of Procedure according to Article 139 of the Doki Minister before the next debater, Mr. Križanović, then after Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12963	I thank the esteemed sir presidencies, I also, in the form of false allegations and there would be little one discussion that, that is to say, these incorrect ones are explained as a whole, but I'm only going to say two. For the sake of illustration, the Federal Parliament met yesterday and adopted a report by the Federation government, a respected representative of the SDA Club, a party that agreed on the government's report, accused the government of being incompetent and simply not doing their job. The same club, the same party, voted in favour of the government's report yesterday and gave a positive assessment, and today's respected SDA vice president, so the government is not working, they simply don't deserve any attention in this parliament. That's one. Two. Very dangerous thesis. Let them do it to themselves, we'll do it to ourselves. That's not how my colleague Palavrić will do it. It can't go that way. This country is a complex state community and you have to respect what entities are saying. Well, we're not gonna ignore what the Federal Parliament said yesterday. That's below two. Three, you said, too, one notorious lie. That processors and manufacturers agreed. Where do you get the arguments from? Where you really come from, so you defy the elemental things of the document standing before you. Read this letter from the Association of Peradara Associations simply BiH. Well, you really don't respect the elemental things that stand before you. So those false allegations will not pass away. You can't uncritically 44 defend something you can't defend, so I'm warning you one more time, this point is more than this customs tariff.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12964	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Špirić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12965	Mr. Chairman, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister Little Sejo has helped me, but here's where he blames himself. My colleague, Seada, said the Council of Ministers had been working under the law and, here's this amendment to the law treats the change in customs tariffs, and I'm asking on the basis of which law the Council of Ministers regulated this four months back only on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision. If he could make a decision once, and he's right, and he doesn't have a bill, why the law? Couldn't the Council of Ministers have made a decision once more if he didn't think he was breaking the law. But I think it's true that the Council of Ministers went outside the law and is now seeking to break through the law. That's the problem of this country. That's one thing. Second of all, I think it's a conflict of jurisdiction. The Council of Ministers cannot be charged with something where there is no legal jurisdiction. Maybe we can get in the process, get it, but now it's gone. I have to say here and I'm for those who sowed, raised and drowned. But today, Mrs. Seada is quite the opposite. We don't bring the law here in the interest of them. It's those who buy. There's a problem here that we're asking these things to come together. I'm afraid here that just the unfortunate ones you, of whom you're taking good care of, what you're going to vote for, are going to get hurt, but so that that doesn't happen, that I don't contest your allegations or mine. Who can arbitration there? The one who suggests it. So he tells you with this legal solution, one will go like this, the other will go like this. So in five months we'll applaud the Council of Ministers or we'll say gentlemen, it can't be like this. So, I am saddened that the Council of Ministers, having had one such decision, did not come up with an account of what kind of positive shifts the decision has made. Well, that's where I think they're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12966	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Wrong quote, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12967	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Professor Špirić and Professor Avdić who said one part, but I want to say that the wrong quote was, in general, directed by Mrs Palavrić to actually run away from the real problems in BiH. Because then he says he needs to form a new agriculture ministry. We now have a ministry called foreign trade and economic relations. This is the essence, so this is exactly the ministry. We are always in BiH, instead of pointing to problems, if someone is not working, doesn't know or doesn't want to work, we are immediately looking for new weights in BiH, and we are running away from these problems. We ignore the conclusions of this House that bound the Council of Ministers. We didn't respect coordination, I mean, with entity authorities. It's a constitutional category. We don't even respect this country's constitution. In the Western countries, gentlemen, 45
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12968	Mr. Gligorić, this is already a discussion. Don't use replicas for new discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12969	This isn't a discussion. It's just that we understand something. She's looking for a new ministry. And I say that in the Western countries, the Ministry of Agriculture is being decentralised. It goes to the institutions of these primary productions with a desire and a need to see, to see the needs of these people, and thus you can see everything. I would agree with Mrs Palavrić when she says a report from the Council of Ministers within four months, to look at the effects etc. And she turned it all upside down. All this was to be sought on time, here it was to be asked, the capacity and capacity of the ministry, responsibility, etc. And Minister Doko says they will make sure that what is bought has to be paid, he becomes a commercialist manager. This is not noticed by Mrs Palavrić, but by one manipulation of politics, it is essentially to cover up this one tendency that is being cried here. It is impossible here to defend something that cannot be defended and that this is not in the function of domestic primary production, but in the function of commercial lobbies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12970	Nice, Mr. Gligorić. Replica first Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Come on, please, we all have a chance to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12971	Ladies and gentlemen, the replica lasts a maximum minute, and count to sixty now. I beg you under replicas we opened up here again debates, that's one thing. The second thing, the MP has an opinion to make. I've heard replicas here that actually don't need an MP to express his opinion. If you disagree, vote the way you think. The apostle has the right to give his opinion. Mrs. Palavrić gave her opinion. Mr. Gligorić, instead of correcting the wrong allegations, you are constantly standing up in your replicas and bending, actually making allegations. I told you once, and I repeat here again at the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12972	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12973	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I replicate Mrs. Seada Palavrić for the next reason. She's the one who led us to support the law and to make an analysis after five months or four months. The Council of Ministers made the same decision five months ago and it's been five months, we don't have any analysis, whether it was positive or negative. I don't see the logic of giving someone another chance, and he hasn't proved to us before, or in a previous procedure, what he's done. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12974	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Gligorić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12975	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really dispute that any MP should speak his mind, but I now want to say that Mr Džaferović, just under the rule of parliamentary democracy, has actually shown that he wants to build an authoritarian regime and that his discussion, in fact, is an expression of that autocracy in that sense, in which it was almost seen and threatened. Therefore, I replied to Mrs Palavrić in a way that I disagreed with her, but Mr Džaferović authoritatively, in an autocratic manner, wanted to, in fact, threaten the MP, and thus also to Parliament. Therefore, you will not build this autocratic regime in BiH as long as there are free-thinking people in BiH and thus in Parliament. And I think I'm one of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12976	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Replica Mr. Džaferović. Come on, please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12977	Mr. Gligorić, I am responsible for what I say about this pay phone, I am not responsible for what you see what I say. Obviously, it's not me, it's your dioptria, and you know where it's being fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12978	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, I don't think there's any more reason for your replica. The word has a Minister Doko. Well, he mentioned the name, so you mentioned the name, and he said he was responsible for what he was saying and he didn't say anything else. Here, Mr. Gligorić, let the House judge whether the leadership and the College are tolerable in the conduct of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12979	Mr. Chairman and you wear glasses, maybe he thought of you and all these people who wear glasses or have problems with it, can be understood the way he said it and not only that, he produced a mind-reading machine, it seems to me, but someone said it. You don't know what I think. It's really the easiest thing to say is that you get into my thinking system and say what I think here as if you're a man proven freroid or so on. So, I do, however, think that what you said that, Mr. Džaferović, I am talking to you, that what you said that was, to use your words. I believe Mr. Špirić to say, I have ten seconds left. I believe that there are people in BiH and there are policies that see briefly and far away. I think you politicians are short-sighted people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12980	The word is Mr. Doko, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12981	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, a few clarifications regarding the exposure you've heard. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Council of Ministers shall act within the framework of its constitutional competences and shall have the right to make decisions which are legal and not only legal and legal. As regards the letter specifically to CAFAO, which is called for in the presentation of its representative, it has been said that CAFAO is against these decisions and that it considers all legal. I can say I've read that memo many times. CAFAO is of the opinion that decisions can temporarily address these problems, meaning temporary and guidance, if there is a need for a more permanent solution to this problem, to be resolved by law. Therefore, we have just respected, as you can see, and this recommendation of CAFAO and before you is an amendment to the law and we are trying to resolve it that way. As for the consent of entity resolution ministries or entity governments or parliaments, so imagine how much the process should agree in this way. This is about parliament informing, this parliament that the government or the ministry is not for it. If I say one fact that in this task force has been sitting with me, the Minister of Agriculture and one and the other entity, I think those decisions that the task force makes have legitimacy. I can say for your information that I was in Banja Luka yesterday to ten o'clock, what I was doing, agreeing with the government of the RS, therefore, these measures. Therefore, I think that is quite enough and that on my part there has always been a willingness to work together, in cooperation with the entity governments to bring these measures. But we have to be operational and fast in all of this, while we respect some procedures that are quite complex, I'm afraid we won't have anyone to help. As for the amount, the opinion that the Council of Ministers has no parameters, I will tell you, you know the situation in BiH about the data. So, the statistical zvaod, which is the sources of information, that we have that difference, how much we have, and we're certainly dealing with some estimates. We were able to extract as much data as in the last year for all six of these heads and all six tariff codes paid, meaning customs and overwork. Please and customs, the customs rate is 10% and the prelevman is given in absolute amount and it is much more significant if we translate it into a relative number, it will be anywhere even 200%, given the low base. Which means that the angel part is 90 and some percent in this amount that I'm about to say, the amount of the levee flaw and the purpose of the levies is known. Mrs Palavrić has just said nicely that this is the purpose...to return to agricultural and primary production, which is absolutely not today. The amount is exactly 9 million 735 thousand 808 marks for the whole year imported all in this not 40, not 30, but 9 million. That's the maximum amount, that's what is maximum if we approve everything we don't even get into these measures that we're proposing, because there won't mean some goods that are controlled by this amount, it won't be released and that amount is that some blue. 48 The fact is that by processing imports of that raw material and they will continue to import it, because it is not enough on our market. That's a fact. On the other hand, this decision and the amendments to the laws that we have proposed here, so there will be no imports at these rates unless there are no ransoms and that is what is the essence of all this. Which means the demand for ransom will increase. If it is not clear to anyone how this will help the primary agricultural producer, I will try to explain in a way that I say imagine that we have only one cow or one pig in BiH to be bought. Imagine what demand it is from the processors to buy that cow, so that they can then acquire the right to buy on the basis of, on the basis of the purchase, the imports per p... on the basis of this ransom, which means that with our demand, we will influence that prices will surely be more significant, that the primary agricultural producers will have meaning to sell, from whom to charge, that they will have the incentive in the long term, which is the purpose of this law seems (?Therefore, in this sector, they can count on these measures that have been offered. Here are some explanations again, I know that it is,...I will not take into account all this in my presentation because it is simply impossible to respect your time, but I ask you once again to understand how hasty it is and that is why this insistence of the Council of Ministers and in this procedure to adopt these laws that are once again conjecture and follow again a series of activities that we can actually put these measures into function and that we can instruct them.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12982	I thank Minister Doki. The word is Mr. Križanović. Please, Mr. Križanović and then we'll talk about, I said Mr. Križanović, go ahead, go ahead, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12983	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12984	Please, for your attention, everyone will get the word, everyone will get the opportunity to intervene and please respect each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12985	I will try really hard to be brief and not repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have already said. I would first of all like to say that I am disappointed with the fact that this House is discussing for the third time in a month thanks to the Council of Ministers' tenacity on the same subject. First of all, I am disappointed that this proposalconfronts primary production and processing. We really need each other in this economic situation, we need them to develop both, and we need them to hire new workers. I'm dissatisfied, in fact, with the very proposal that in its essence is confrontational, so it's going to produce and it's going to spend this, it's going to process. I am deeply convinced today, that with the best of intentions this Prlament today cannot bring a good solution, accepting or rejecting this bill, I don't think we're doing a good thing. And why is that? You see, when the Council of Ministers makes a practical move, which concerns the country's life and economy, then it becomes very important, media important and interesting 49. And this suggests, in fact, that the Council of Ministers is being part of a very important area and that the Council of Ministers, with everything restrictive to say, organisational conditions, has a strong instrument in foreign policy. But the problem is that the Council of Ministers has no vision of economic policy in BiH and is working part-time. You see, we have already received further amendments to customs tariffs when it comes to cars, etc. The best thing that my colleague Avdić said, where this Council of Ministers initiative is that using exactly the customs policy and customs in this country, in this year's bar, he tries to conclude this Assembly, or this House, to give a complete, complete solution to domestic production and protection of domestic production. Here, for all this, I voted in favour of the procedure under Article 105. I voted that this tape would stop and that this Council of Ministers would indeed follow these discussions that we have led for the third time on this topic to be more seriously approached by this problem. And of course, just because I'm not convinced what's good today is a solution, refusal or acceptance of this law, I'm closer to not accepting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12986	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović... Potočnik, Avdić and Kunić at the request of replicas. Mr. Potočnik
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12987	Replica Minister Doki. You're saying you don't have any information at all about how much I don't know chickens, pigs, etc. Unfortunately, we do not have as many people as we have in BiH, then I do not understand what the carnivores can look for and claim that there are not enough of these products in BiH. You're in college. Otherwise you'd say thinking. And how do you plan to function at country level to give tariff groups and at entity level to encourage agriculture and businesses. You just don't have any knowledge of the past period you've been set up in the same way, you don't even have a vision for tomorrow. In this way, the policy of one state or the economy of a country is not being conducted, because this is by heart management. All you can think of is going to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12988	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. Replica Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12989	I haven't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12990	Excuse me, Mr. Potočnik. You're the next debater, that's what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12991	Simply, in order to strengthen the responsibility of all BiH authorities, I repeat once again, the minister's statement is under question. The ministry of agriculture, water and forestry of the Federation of BiH did not participate in the creation of the law, since no proposal from the said ministry at the Council of Ministers' 50 commission was accepted. And I suggest that the vote be voted on by the Federal Parliament, that this law be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12992	I thank Mr. Avdić, we still have Mr. Kunić's replica, and then Mr. Moranjkić's debate. Please, we're going to be working until 15 to 1 and I'm asking you to be patient, to finish this part, to try to finish the discussion and the decision-making. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12993	This may not be a replica, but let me point to one fact. Mr. Doko pointed out one moment that a decision can regulate certain things that KAFAO said but basic frameworks are regulated by law. The Council of Ministers seems to have made one decision where he had no authority. Decisions are a sublegal act which elaborates certain provisions of the law and decisions must be strictly on the trail of the law. The Council of Ministers, therefore, apparently broke the law when it made a decision outside the constitution in the law. Therefore, decisions can regulate certain matters, or only develop certain provisions of the law, not the whole law but certain provisions, but must therefore be a foothold in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12994	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12995	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of fellow Members, MPs, today I will try to speak as an businessman and I want you to accept what I say first as the opinion of the producer from primary agricultural production. So, from the problem that is being treated in a certain way, I accidentally said in one of the previous parliaments that because of the situation in this country, I had to close such an object called the production of broilers in BiH. The truth is, I'm very sorry that this law keeps pushing through the famous article 105. We know that this is a member who takes it or leaves it and in a certain way, prevents it from acting creatively in certain additions to this law that I do think is my personal opinion on the agenda because of the burning fire and the burning state in this segment of the economy, i.e.. in agriculture, in particular when it comes to production and primary and processing in the meat industry. I, as a man, want to express myself in this context, in the form of regret, but at the same time, I am pleased that at least in such a small segment there has been a shift in the thinking or activities of the Council of Ministers to start dealing with life problems in this country, which in the end you see and mean a lot to this troubled country. I stress that I am experiencing this law as extremely narrowly partial, which should be brought under pressure, the pressure is half objective, half subjective, and not so broadly, even if you want and solemnly as you already want colleagues speak on the subject and move into a broad action that is impossible at this moment 51 to perform, which means this little bit to get to the bottom of what is still half-lived in this production, in this country. We're here in an extremely painful situation. You can see that every discussion has three, four replicas. It makes me sick as a producer, it makes me sick, and it makes me look like an MP and a member of this Parliament, and that's why I really want to say my opinion on this problem. I think at this point which is such a narrow, partial problem, which solves whether or not they want to tell me, 13% of the peradian problems but is 13%. I'll tell you in that particular case next. That the problem that the proposed law solves is a problem that solves 12 to 13% of the specific problem of the poultry industry primary. Is that the right answer? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And it's being cooked up in a certain way now because that's the problem. I, as a manufacturer, argue, and all producers are going to ohaze, to bury those 13% in the mill, to give it up, and to get rid of them 88% or 87%. So the solution is in the whole problem, but that doesn't mean that we should throw away this partial one. That's why I'm in favour of accepting a partial and putting pressure on the responsible ministries to go quickly because it's past the deadline when they were supposed to appear in front of this Parliament with legal tariffs. It's past the deadline when they were supposed to bring strategy into agriculture, and today here we have to solve it the way it is. Here I am, going and working with certain associations that follow this industry. Here are the producers, it's not true that it's past them, maybe past the part of the manufacturer's doing this. It's sad that in this area we have two or three associations or some independent shooters in the form of business entities that come out with their policy to solve this problem, which means here I think most of the wishes of these producers are embedded, and they are sitting there. And that's why I wouldn't agree sometimes that this was all done past them, maybe past the parts, and that's a sad picture of our climate and our country. The question has been raised there how to resolve this, so there has been a change in the tariff number in terms of introducing a new tariff number, for... gentlemen, we need to know that there is no such tariff number in Europe. This problem is no one in Europe, until this market, that the EU does not give a change to that tariff number as someone thinks and suggests in certain solutions that this problem should be resolved. So it's not a problem here. So the others asked a question and said let's leave the levies and customs duties as they were. Experience has shown, unfortunately, that those solutions were not solutions. Why? Because the money's gone. They didn't come to where they were supposed to come, to improve the situation and the situation in this production. And so it's not the end of it either. And what is particularly important, is that we must always have somewhere near the head, that meat processing is the truth I am from putting under b) in relation to primary production, our production and how much we can, but not at the expense of these first ones, we and we are not obliged as Parliament, as people to help and then the question arises whether the solutions are in one and the other. If we go with the manufactured primary, then those benefits will shut the door to our meat-processing bodies to get out. Why? Because the environment that's regulated by the contracts is creating a situation to bring it under dumping prices and to close the door for these people out there. 52 So this is a problem that no one has ever touched before, and it is probably both blistering and other when it comes to processors and primary manufacturers. Then the question is, where are the solutions? Solutions if we go partial, and we go, and they're part of the quota that's out of line. Whether those quotas reflect a certain true state, someone who has asked a question here, it is unfortunate that the Ministry has not answered that question. What I have in mind, as a man from that branch, as a man who worked with these people is landing, that the needs of MOM today, in the processing industry between 15 and 18 thousand tonnes, that installed capacities of our peradarians are currently being installed, I'm talking about the peradarian industry, and there's a similar situation when these other two branches are, bordered to say, 3.5 to 5,000 tons. So there's when everything is bought out of the uncovered 10 to 13 tons that you have to give people to import, or let's tell them how far you're going to produce and close that branch of production. I think that it is neither our goal nor our other goal, but to find solutions and these solutions are for the time being, partial and need them for me to accept them as such and to put pressure from this Parliament to be the complete problem of the one mentioned here from agricultural production, from the entire economy of our urgent position on. The other is imposing, what if we pass this law? And what the Council of Ministers did not offer is imposed on mechanisms that would be controlled because such tariffs, which were accepted by the EU, have created doubt that under such a description, a combination would be withdrawn and indeed entered into this country, and it destroyed the peradar production. It wasn't destroyed by MOM. Although he's a small wound in all of it. And where is the question? The question arises that we solve a problem with the customs that is corrupt, solve a problem with the DGS that is corrupt, solve a problem with the ministry that is corrupt, solve a problem with inspections that have been corrupt and that have closed their eyes when hundreds of meat clippers have passed under the MOM and entered this country. That whole distraction, I'm sorry, that whole distraction, the real one at the same time, is, you haven't shown it to others, I'm talking really like a manufacturer now, yes, it is, to Džferović, I know, the real one in the circle are also the meat-processing that are also traders of the conflict. I don't want to mention them, they know it well, and they're under that company imports and they're unfair competition to destroy the domestic poultry industry. If we do this, I think this is a solution for this segment and we have to work on something else and it has to work on this country once, we must not doubt once that one of the 10 or 15 hats enters the Nuts legally and the others does not impose a problem as well as these featherers and those interested in entering the system of monitoring and control, and that the Council of Ministers can make their own decisions, and I suggest that it be made. That's why I, for a short while, will see that the anxiety in the presidency becomes I don't rip up the forest, I rip up a tree that is sick and I present it in this House. If this Parliament will accept it, it is on it. I'm not going to rephrase anyone's word and on every discussion I have as a replicater, but I've left my opinion and I'm saying that in this segment right now, this solution is only optimal with the extra of... which I objected to with my finger that they must be dealt with urgently. Otherwise, it's just opening doors that need crime to get in. I'm not talking about crime right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12996	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. What's only safe is that you had the longest discussion. So you're not discriminated against... the other MPs. I'm asking for a little attention. So, the word was sought by the representatives of the task force who participated in the preparation of these solutions, along with the Council of Ministers. Last time we voted, we decided to give them our word. So, if a debate is opened about the content of the law itself and we have five more reported for discussion. So Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Jovanović, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Mr. Nikola Kragulj and Mr. Izet Hadžić. I suggest that if you're agreeable, we give more representatives to the task force, we take a break. Only Mrs. Hadžiahmetović if you insist now? If you can in this time frame. I'll give you one more word. But please respect the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12997	I don't argue, I can discuss after the break, but for one reason, I suggest for a practical reason that perhaps the representatives of the State Commission, or the members of the Agriculture Commission, so at least from the media, I found out that this, that the members of the State Commission are present, that they might listen because they're going to be asked that, perhaps, in one. I personally have some dilemmas or questions, I suppose they have other colleagues. And in so much as I suggest that maybe we give the word, or give the word at the end, of course in accordance with the conclusion that we made last time, and as far as my discussions are concerned, I can discuss later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12998	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. So now I'm going to give the word to Mr. Vladimir Usorac, it's an agreement within the working group. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then please don't make any misunderstandings, everyone who's asked for a word will be given a break by 1400 hours. For all activities proceed at 1400 hours. Dear MPs, we continue with the work of the House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] We are still at the top of the agenda, discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act by the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform you that before these discussions were reported, the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will therefore allow him to address this House. I call on Mr. Terzić to do so, and then according to the order of the prisoners, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u12999	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I ask you to respect the fact that today, the representatives of the NATO Alliance in BiH have discussed the Partnership for Peace and in 54:30 now, we have a meeting with the Standing Military Committee. That's why I couldn't attend the first part and I'm going to ask you to understand that I'm going to have to leave after my address. In the meantime, I have had consultations, there are no SDS, I would still wait for them to come, because, an important factor, so in the meantime, I have also had consultations with Prime Minister Mikerević and Minister Trklja and what I would suggest to you today as one solution that will allow what we have imagined to pass, but that all the concerns that some MPs have about implementing this measure is this, bringing full control is next. I suggest that you adopt this legislative proposal, and that, in the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, you oblige the Council of Ministers to implement this decision, in the first phase, only up to 1/3 of those quotas, to apply this legislative procedure, and then to then analyse what this measure has contributed to, to report to Parliament on this and to get the consent that we may move on and stop this process. I think that at this point would be an optimal solution in which our ideas would be satisfied, but I say the fears that individuals have, either from Parliament, or from some associations and these primary producers. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13000	I thank Mr. Terzić for his address and this proposal. So we have the next situation, for word's sake, so far, I'm asking you to close the application. You're Mrs. Leho, too, aren't you? So, the next order is, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mr Miloš Jovanović, then the open question remains when will we be approached by representatives of the task force. You want to go to the end? Thank you very much. So Ms. Arzra Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Miloš Jovanović, and Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Mr. Nikola Kragulj, Izet Hadžić and Fatima Leho. I ask all MPs to respect these elements of today's debate. I think we've had enough time to try to condense their exposure. I'll be grateful to them as chairman. Thank you very much. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13001	I thank the chairman. Dear Members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, guests and, of course, fellow Members and fellow Members, I must at first express this way, first perhaps a few remarks on some of the discussions that I have heard and which are an integral part of the discussion, i.e. the elements of the discussion that I want to present here today to all of you. First of all, I am sorry that Mrs. Seadeti Palavrić, Seadi Palavrić, excuse me, uh, when she spoke of jurisdiction and when she said, unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, I am very sorry, because unfortunately the Ministry of Foreign Trade, namely the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and within the framework of the resort, this I really had to say 55, although it would be logical that it was someone from the Ministry defending the independence of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Secondly, I have listened carefully to discussions as an economist in this hall, I must say that I find it really surprising that distinguished colleagues, professors and Avdić and Professor Gligorić and Professor Špirić and Mr Potočnik etc. sometimes they come in with different professions, electro-machines, legal ones, etc. Sometimes they get into discussions that are really, really, micro-surgery of the little brain. And I'm going to talk to my colleagues more about economists now, because it's really about economic segments, tariffs, customs. So, fellow Špirić, here I will see who I am, if I forget who I really am, let me apologize to you, colleague Sopta, colleague Miličević, colleague Kragulj, especially if it is a colleague of Leho, as MPs, to ask if it is clear to you, what does the belly means, cooked at a temperature of over 70 degrees or dried with kala, drying more than 25, a ratio for pig meat 21, which means two kilos of domestic pounds of import, for a chicken of domestic three imports, for a beef of three kilos of domestic three imports, and then it writes salted in salamura, a meat crumb of meat, so the Council of Ministers can change some of those quantities, so four times the Council of Ministers can repeat the determined quotas, and then exactly 652 tonnes, 1.273 etc. I'm sorry, I'm asking the economists because I don't understand this as an economist. Me, at least not from this bill. Of course, in the bill of law, it shouldn't stand, any calculations, but I suppose there's an argument first, from the Resort Ministry which she coordinated, and I especially assume from members of the State Commission who can tell us what 2.268 tons means. So I ask you why it's not 2.267, for example.? This is what I'm saying to be, at least those who are economists by definition, a little bit cautious, to stand over something that doesn't accept and refuse the apriors something that's ahead of us. I don't, of course, agree with these discussions that went on, which were mostly intonated in the same tone as last time, because we now have a whole new proposal. I also have a previous proposal here that we of course refused to the extent that we refused. We have a whole new proposal here, and I'm asking you all to pay attention to the brand-new arguments that stand here. It's a whole new argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13002	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13003	I have this, colleague Avdiću in front of me and one and another proposal. So the argument
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13004	Please, Mr. Avdić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13005	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13006	So the argument for and against should be different. Argumentation for and argument against. Furthermore, I am still standing next to the fact that the zero customs rate 56 is not in the function of protection of production. I know very well that we are all moving towards zero customs rates with a general trend and changed circumstances in trade. However, I would like to stress that with the tariff limits, or quotas that appear here in these ratios that are not clear to me, I think it would probably be someone, why exactly 1,273, that someone would present it here with arguments. But what I want, which I would especially like to draw attention to, although there is not so much argument here unlike last time, about protecting domestic production. There's one argument, and that's a zero customs rate and a loss of income on this basis that could possibly be rerouted to some other basis. So let's say as an economist, I'm thinking np. that anything that could possibly be lost on customs revenues can be managed in a way to stimulate domestic production, primary, livestock production. I ask you indeed, although I'm no expert in this area, to make a little difference what the primary agricultural production is. Is it really the primary farm here, this one that knows a little bit more, they know I'm guessing it's not this one, or let's say we set up some dilemma. Is that us, for example? in these ratios of pig husbandry in a better position than perading or producing cattle, I expect that it will be....argumentation from either the RES or from those who participated precisely in these precise calculations that stand here. Furthermore, I am sorry that the minister at the beginning, when we discussed the procedure, spoke little about the content. I thought it would be about the word contained a little later, so I expect, I assume that Mr. Tosic as deputy minister otherwise, I don't like to ever locate anyone entity but this one, which is in the RS Resolution Ministry, was passed by the Council of Ministers, and therefore was voted by the RS ministers. So this argument that was heard here, about someone from RS or April all of them refusing, probably causing a dilemma with someone. Let's just say it's a dilemma. So I guess that's if you don't mind maybe, in that sense, paying attention. Furthermore, I would pray indeed, for in these quantities I do not understand, in gains and losses. So according to what we at university call bonefenefite analysis, that it might appear to this Parliament because I'm really not sure on the basis of everything we've heard so far and those political arguments and those that someone's wrapped up in a celephane with a bow and called professional arguments, I haven't really heard a single strong one. It's not political, it's not professional. Let me put it that way. Why am I saying that? My colleague Avdić, if I were to go to your field in your profession, I'd probably, as you have entered the field of economy, probably not talk about the protection of domestic production if I assume we agree, but about the incentives of domestic production. I wouldn't talk about protectionism, because it died a long time ago in the economy. Even more in international trade practice is quite forbidden, except for highly sophisticated protectionism. A kolega of Avdić, I read professional journals, publications, professional and premeditated books, lecture analysis of foreign trade and at postgraduate study
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13007	Please, Mr. Avdić, if he needs an answer, he'll get a chance. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13008	...I happen to know this, so I'm telling you this. What I'm saying is that, by sometimes encouraging domestic production, what you called protection of domestic production, I can take place under some highly sophisticated protectionist measures, but in those classic terms of protectionism that you defined here in Parliament, no way. Now, is this proposal really a highly sophisticated protectionism, I expect to get an answer here. I guess we will. All the more reason why we need it. I have to say so for the simple reason that I know a lot of people and the business sector, and at the time I was in the ministry, I also came up with a variety of suggestions that applied to machine-exploited meat, met and here as a parliamentarian, this is the third proposal, so none of them came back from those when I was in the ministry. We have a constant evolution, some new suggestions, etc. That maybe with some new argument, you can really introduce me, I'm assuming you have an argument for this. And the more this really is, the more I say so many people know me, the more I'm prone to criticism and your group, the more I sign free trade agreements, even though I assume that my colleague Raguž wouldn't change his mind at all, he signed three free trade agreements, we just followed him. And I congratulate him, because he only realized one of the Stability Pact's initiatives in Southeast Europe, to be just like other people. Furthermore, I've been called by various people, sending us papers, memos here by parliamentarians, etc. Some day, let's just say for a short period of time, in one afternoon, I've had from meetings and phone conversations that represent, say, your argument, to staying in Gracanica, which are my counter argumentation, etc. Why am I saying this? Come out with strong arguments, convince this Parliament to raise your hand. Otherwise, I as someone who really believes knows, by chance knows, perhaps unfortunately for your sake, I can raise my hand for here, but I would feel the same way as writing a six in the index without my student being in the exam. Thank you, I'm sorry, there may have been a little bit of an unusual way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13009	Thank you very much. Does anyone want one? Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Potočnik. Please, I'm giving everyone my word, but look where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13010	It's hard to understand Professor Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13011	You have a minute. I have a right to cut short my time. I can't cut you right, but you do, this one. Excuse me, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13012	I beg you, termology, the theory of small brains, etc. which discredits a certain round of MPs and attempts to establish a monopoly on the economy, to learn from this area is extremely unspeakable this, and a missed investment. I respect that, but it's unfortunate that a professor from the Faculty of Economics speaks this way. It's really sad. It shows an elementary non-knowledge of basics. Recently, 58 Croatian Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, professor of the Faculty of Economics, decided to take measures, repeat another time, to protect national interventionism from domestic production. If you need one more time to repeat. That's information from a few days ago. Which means, if Mrs. Minister, 2.5 years ago, had taken care of the protection of domestic production, or as she says about domestic production, we probably wouldn't have been in this difficult situation today. And I'd just like to ask you, if it's possible to analyze the fourth point of this law that predicts this peradarian industry, to analyze it a little bit. And everything would be clear as a day for these people sitting here, which means you're just trying to cancel and impose knowledge at the Faculty of Economics, which is absolutely inappropriate, these are people who think for themselves. It doesn't take a lot of being smart to take this apart and have a healthy relationship with this, uh, law. So, you won't get away with this monopoly and simply what it says about a professor at the Faculty of Economics who, in this way, wants to discriminate against Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13013	Replica, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Potočnik, then Gligorić. Please for a minute, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13014	It was very nice to listen to Mr. Avdić, but the more I don't understand at the end of the day, does Mr. Avdić think that as an economist, this is clear to me?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13015	I don't know if you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13016	I don't know, I don't. I don't. That's why I asked what this means, and here I tried to set up a few dilemmas as an economist, Mr. Avdić, a few dilemmas. If this is clear to you,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13017	I understand you don't need to adopt colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13018	I just want to say you owe us an argument both for and against. You're modeling against, let these give us an argument for. Otherwise, I really don't know what I'd go for. Your argument is not strong enough, professionally, I have to say it really, perhaps politically I am not, I speak as an economist, their argument may be strong professionally or from the position of the promoter, or the participant in the proposal, and on the basis that we decide what it means for chicken meat these ratios, which means abdominal, salamura, dried so much. I mean, it really makes me feel...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13019	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13020	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I understand that everyone can have their own thinking and attitude, but I do not allow Mrs Hadžiahmetović to judge me. It's funny to talk about myself, but I'll have to say, for 25 years I've been in business, I've made over half a billion marks in that period, of course not alone, but with my colleagues, and when you get at least one small company with your theoretical knowledge, then we can talk about the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13021	Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13022	Let me just, I had no intention of estimating anyone's economic knowledge, just as you don't need to evaluate my machine or any other knowledge. But, uh, you don't have to discuss it like that, but my colleague Potočnik and you and Mrs. Palavrić and someone else here used it for example. For argumentation of the levies. For your information, the levies were translated into a complex customs tariff two years ago, as one of the advances for the surrender of our Foreign Trade Memorandum to start accession negotiations to the World Trade Organisation. So, the levies as a category of private, here's to be corrected by the Deputy Minister, they don't exist. Allow me, if you want a few more arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13023	Thank you very much Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, replica Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13024	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Dr. Hadžiahmetović, that her discussion, or the guilty quote, is being looked at in the next. Since you said that you did not like it, but that in the Council of Ministers for the amendment and addition of the law, the Serbian or RS ministers also voted. What I'm saying is that it's a guilty allegation, that the record I have given the two ministers, one was against that law. The guilty, therefore, are here in the next, that one Serbian people's minister in the Council of Ministers for this agenda item was against it. And I thought by looking at my favorite Džaferović, I thought that when he was saying that he was saying it, and you're also this guy, you've kind of tried to judge people in this Parliament in some way, and I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13025	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Replica
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13026	And I don't give the record,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13027	Correction of the wrong allegations, or replica Mr Špirić, then debate Mr Jovanović. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13028	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, me and my friend Azra can stay for two days, meet next week, talk as much as anyone knows from the economy, I regret that Azra has problems, which doesn't know what the belly is, when it comes to meat but it's not the problem with this thing. I expected her colleague to ask her what she didn't understand, not Nikola Špirić. No, Mr. Professor Sej Avdić, there are no proposings and her fellow MPs here. But you see, I want to understand my colleague Azra. The BiH party is looking for an easy way out that coalition partners would not charge it with obstruction, which is also a problem for what we want, for what we want to solve. There is no story here of the RS and the Federation. There's a state law here that should be good for everyone. That's why, which is why I said I wanted Article 105's procedure not to be an entity story but to have fellow Members of State say what they agree with, which they disagree with. And in the end, Azra and I concluded that there was no math that would convince people. So, both her and me and the others and if this is it, I said if the Council of Ministers comes out with a clear bill by the end of the session, that I would support this. But the Council of Ministers insists on convincing me that this is the only bill, that there is no other. This is not who I am. So that's the basic problem. Don't let us convince each other. There's a proposaler and MPs. I think it was an ugly argument. I wish I'd heard any argument from my colleague Azra for or against, to change my view, to vote for. But I have no sense of what your colleagues were saying or what the promoter wanted. And I'm surprised you've been a minister for two years, so I guess you should know what a belly is because it's imported and when you were a minister, right? And used flesh and bellies and feet and what else was imported when you were. It's not like it's the belly of this Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13029	I thank Mr. Špirić. You'll get the word, there's nothing to argue about. The replica of Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. I'm trying to bring this debate to an end in a tolerated tone. Please, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, one minute for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13030	...time but, uh, maybe a fellow economist Špirić didn't understand. I really don't know what economy textbook has a belly, salted in salamura, I'm sorry, but I have to talk like this. Why? Here to return to the field I must replicate for the simple reason I tried to bring the matter to the field of dilemma. I want to say even as economists I don't understand what this calculation means, or quantification especially for categories that in the economy, I think Špirić, please tell me in which textbook you have this, this isn't economic terminology, but what quantification or more was a matter of dilemma to bring more for, so I asked at the beginning that perhaps participants in this proposal explain, or after my discussion may possibly answer these questions, to offer us a strong argument for or against. I really don't have an argument for nothing. You didn't convince me either, especially in economic terms. I have to say that 61 Mrs. Sead Palavrić used really, even though the lawyer, uh, went to the economics field, but she didn't convince me. I really have to say it. I expect even Mrs. Leho will read what she showed me earlier. And I'm guessing really these bellies, the smoked meatloaf, I don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13031	Thank you very much. I have a promise from Mr. Špirić, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13032	If the basic problem is what's hiding under the belly, I think the promoter should answer that. I'm afraid there's something not good for primary agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13033	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović. I'm asking the representatives for, uh, seriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13034	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here I am really going to try to be brief. The fact that there was much desire and interest and politics and replicas here, that I regret that there was no Council of Ministers chairman and I don't see a minister. I thought I'd say a little longer, but I don't think there's any need. What he said, so if I speak now means on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party MPs' Club, what he said, if we get it in writing, then I promise here that four MPs from the Serbian Democratic Party will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13035	I thank Mr. Jovanović. The word is from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the first deputy chairman. Have Mr. Nikola Kragulj prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13036	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the debate here on the third occasion on this topic in the state parliament of BiH has actually shown in the best possible way that BiH needs as soon as possible not only a strategy of agricultural production, but above all a strategy of agricultural production strategy, but a strategy of economic development in BiH fully. The second thing that is very visible is that and this is a bright example, that it is not possible to separate the state's competence in the area of customs policy and, say, agriculture that is now in the jurisdiction of entities, cantons and municipalities. So more and more than the BiH state, because here, through the customs tariff, there are multi-combat problems, no problems solved in agricultural production, and for which they are here let me say the competent levels of government in BiH. For this reason, I believe that this debate, apart from agreeing with my colleagues, should deal with a partial case, should, for a lesson, and for a possible conclusion, result in BiH finally having to take account of 62 agricultural production in the entire territory of the BiH state and that it should be a matter and jurisdiction of the state authorities. Not taking away, of course, the responsibilities of those who have been in charge so far and in the area of agricultural production. I will remind you, don't take this into account by politicizing, that we are currently in a position when the Council of Ministers is able to be required by the end of this year to agree the Council of Ministers Act under the very law that we have passed, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act when we included the Ministry of Defence in the Council. You know that this must be balanced, by the end of this year and here is the ideal opportunity for the BiH state to get two other ministries besides the existing nine ministries and one of them should definitely be the Ministry of Agriculture. So that's one thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13037	Please, Gligorić and Kunić that, well, I did not say that it was not constructive only that construction can be done when you get the word. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13038	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I usually listen to my colleagues regardless of how often I disagree with them, but here it is obvious that there are impatient people who are not even able to listen to what they say about the pay phone and yet it is not the problem of anyone who talks, but the problem is that of someone who acts that way. And now, something concrete, about this law itself. There are numerous discussions in this House on the subject of this law and most of these discussions are critical of this law. I haven't heard a single suggestion that I could, that would solve an existing situation because we have a problem right now. So don't forget that thing. We are currently in BiH when this thing is, we have a problem. I have not heard a single proposal that offers a way out of this problem and a solution to this problem in a better way than the way the law proposes it, specifically. Please, today in BiH they are not working, neither are manufacturers, nor are they working. They do not work, because it is expensive for processors to buy domestic products, and they are not competitive with the finished products imported into BiH, if with this customs burden, importing raw materials makes their own product. We can, like Parliament, shut up, stick our head in the sand like a noose and not react to this situation. This solution is not an ideal solution, but unfortunately we in BiH have been in a situation for a long time to choose from two worse solutions which is less bad. I am in favour of trying to unblock this situation, to defuse the existing situation, to initiate the process in that direction, and I understand the Council of Ministers' proposal. Because, please, nice according to this law, BiH needs to be imported, I am now speaking aproximately, are not the exact figures of about 4,800 tonnes of meat of various kinds from abroad but in order to import it by processing that imports into BiH must buy 3,500 tonnes of meat from domestic producers that are from the primary agricultural production from the manufacturer. Isn't this the launch of a chain, from a dead spot, from a point in which they stand and process, and where they stand and produce. I'm not happy that these are the ratios, but these ratios have been assessed by people who understand better than I do in this problem and they've also talked to processors and, of course, with primary agricultural producers. If we're looking at it like this, and I think 63 is how we're supposed to look at it, then we can show for ourselves that we're trying and we're trying to start the dead end situation, and we can finally start this process. The most important thing in all of this, and I am today encouraged by the stand-up of the Council of Ministers' chairman, is actually a matter of control. Would indeed buy 3,500 tonnes from domestic agricultural producers in BiH if they were allowed to import 4,800 from abroad at a favourable customs rate. That is the question, therefore, of our organisations and the issue of our control and today's statement by the Council of Ministers, in which he proposes that Parliament adopt, in addition to this law, a conclusion saying that this law is being implemented up to 1/3 of the size mentioned here, and that then Parliament analyses the Council of Ministers' report on the effects of this law on primary agricultural production, it is acceptable for me. And so, given the need to really get off the dead end, I'm willing to support this solution and I'm solely motivated by it. No one has ever put any pressure on me, nor is it possible to put pressure on me. I'm thinking with my head and the reasons I'm motivated to vote for this law, I hope you're clear from this step of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13039	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Replica Mr. Potočnik, then the word Mr. Kragulj.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13040	Since you gave me your word, Mr. Džaferović, I have repeatedly presented the whole solution that I really need and can start BiH's economy and agriculture. And I'm gonna do it again now and I'm gonna explain it one more time. By unilaterally cancelling the Free Trade Agreement, which lasts six months, we begin to protect all agriculture and the economy of BiH in six months. In such a package, I agree that this change of tariff groups is also accepted. In this way this group predicates and immediately starts to develop and within six months the entire agriculture and economy develops, but I am against a partial solution. This is just a partial solution. So, first of all, we have to have the state ahead of us and the entire agriculture and the economy, not just partial solutions. Today we will hear from one another, tomorrow we will hear from the other, meaning that we, as the firemen, are solving problems, and that is neither the way of work nor the visionary, nor the programming, nor any normal work of Parliament. Therefore, the solution is to break the Free Trade Agreement, we have the right to do so. The minister said that he talked about it and that there was no understanding on the part of the neighbors, we thank Bog we must have understanding for ourselves. And we accept the end of the deal and we accept these tariffs as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13041	Thank you very much. Short Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13042	So you see, Mr. Mladen, I'm listening to your suggestions, of course, and I'm analyzing and respecting what you're proposing, but I can't accept them for one simple reason. Be careful, BiH cannot plan a European path and path of integration and unilaterally break up international contracts. BiH must find a way to organise itself to be competitive in this situation, here I have learned from Mrs Hadžiahmetović so far as I am in this Parliament something about this trade protectionism and trade liberalisation although I am not this, as an economist is called, in order to be competitive in the terms of liberalism, trade liberalism. So it's up to us in BiH. And we can't believe we can't, we won't be circumstantial in our declarations, we want to build a European path to this country, and Euro-Atlantic, and we can unilaterally break up international contracts. The second thing is that it hasn't been since the conclusion of the contract to this day in the state that it's created an ambience so today it doesn't shoot at the head of all of us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13043	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik, then Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13044	I apologize, not in the sense of conflict, but in terms of just building a relationship, I want to say the following. And countries like Slovenia, the Czech Republic, went into a transition programme for 10 years with the protection of their agriculture and made those moves even with VTO. Therefore, if an international community requires that we respect international agreements, then let it be your choice, and let the money that is needed for an incentive that we cannot otherwise receive. You understand? It's just that we can't accept everything from the international community that can't work for us. We are ultimately protecting the interest of a BiH man, our interest and starting once from that point, not with what we would say to the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13045	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić, then Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then let's go to the discussion please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13046	It is the concept of market fundamentalism that is trying to promote BiH. Namely, my colleague Džaferović has not been informed. Recently, the European Community has prescribed contingents for imports of black wine, i.e. wine into the EC. And it protects itself from excessive imports from Chile and I don't know which other countries either. Well, to whom you're telling it, we really can't do it. Do not tactile (?) our participation and our signature on VTO. So please let us try to protect this country from these robberies and kidnappings. It's about time. Listen to what I'm saying. It's about time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13047	Please, Mr. Avdić, let's stick to what the MPs are saying. Mr. Džaferović said about incompatibility (?) The termination of the contract and 65 European standards, he did not say that contigences should not be maintained, I am free to interfere in some way, to bring these replicas into some real measure in which they need them and in a function where they have a fundamental purpose. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13048	I'll just Molić for a brief replica. First Mr. Džaferović is absolutely right. We've taken over international obligations. However, there is another one. Mr. Potočnik is right that if any other side of any bilateral contract does not want in any way or a change or something to be unilaterally interrupted. But since this is mentioned in the context of the debate on this law, it wouldn't be bad if we had that kind of calculation, because a lot of it is tied up, argumentation, for the contingents that we have before us, which, of course, we have Mr. Avdić, are not our agreements completely liberalized trade, neither ours nor any other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13049	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13050	Mr. Avdić, look, there is no bilateral agreement that we have signed, a completely liberal trade agreement. Prove otherwise anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13051	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13052	I'm not spilling Mr. Avdić, but I'm discussing Mr. Avdić, if you don't happen to know I'm discussing. Chairman, I know emotions are strong, but I think I expect you to coordinate Parliament's work a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13053	I want to commend today first as chairman of your energy and preparedness to lead the line with an entire serious spectrum of MPs and indeed here, I mean I didn't want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13054	I'm sorry, but really, I had a need when it came to the profession, to defend my profession.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13055	I've warned on many occasions, be careful I can't even do this now, and my health is you know, on... Thank you very much, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. The replica is gone. Mr. Kragulj. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13056	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very briefly since this is the third time practically already on the agenda and we are practically both at the end and all of these observations that we had on the proposal which is something in changed form compared to originally given. We generally did not get enough knowledge and arguments to be able to identify ourselves for such a solution from which there is only one clear. I understand one thing from this solution, that is, this bill, which is that it solves the temporary processing industry or the capacity in meat processing. The rest is not clear, nor has there any evidence. There are indications, there are some of these proposed ransom relations that should be in place of this,.................................................................................................................. It's very hard to get out of this argument that it's useful. Here we can only get very precise arguments out of these quantities that are sorted, applying the rate of customs so far, how much that's what's being provided for, how much it's costing virtually raw materials for shrubs and nothing more than mathematics we don't have here. Therefore, this is neither partial nor systemic solution, this is only a solution to the problems of a part of the chain of production which is very complex, very broad in which it is practically disregarded the initial this, the initial phase of production, which is the livestock production, as the most represented form of agricultural production and practically skips it is solved the second stage. Ove, I want to point out something else, that this law changes practically, redecorates the system. This is and is put into practice by the Council of Ministers in the position that, in the next period in accordance with the changed system, it can assign, or several times here, as proposed in the course of the year, to enable the import of certain raw materials, as balanced by the needs of the processing industry. It's a great position, because here practically the state honors processors, and the others do what they do. Because nothing else has been indicated. This is very precise and clear to calculate what's what, but you can't calculate what they're going to do to the producers. So I suggest that, I cannot accept that with this argument, which we have so far, that I vote for such a solution. I think we should, we debated here three to four months ago and brought a wide range of conclusions when we discussed the issue of incentives and protection of domestic production, where the central issue was agrarian. I think that, above all, the Council of Ministers, of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, should be held in line with these conclusions that, together with the relevant ministries in entities, a solution should be offered, so that we, in full, declare it, that this is a solution that will go, primarily in order to protect and encourage our own production, so that we gradually come into a position to stop production, to have 67 competitive production, and then certainly would not come up with such proposals, because the question arises as to what, after the exhaustion of such a proposal, if we adopt it. After this, this will come again if we don't do anything else. Nothing else can come. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13057	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Izet Hadžić. We have Mrs Fatima Leho to report, thereby exhausting the discussion of the MPs, then we will give a word to the representatives of the task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13058	Well, I'd say a few findings at the beginning. I'm sorry that the law of two members has been exhausting this long, and it produces so many initiatives, it's trying to conceal one truth. I am much more sorry that the promoter, having so far held sessions, was not more apprehensive in the rule of arguments. As an MP, I want to make my contribution, I rarely report and I want to believe that this proposal is the result of maintaining production in meat processing. If this were to be met, certain categories of meat should be introduced and released from customs duties, so that processors have, I say, their economic interest, given that periods of duty-free regimes with neighbouring countries have taken place and there has been a solution offered by the Council of Ministers. What the SDA MPs' Club has asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers is to specify the conditionality and what part of domestic production to link these imports, we can consider one part to be satisfied. If I wanted to discuss with some other aspects, I might be able to politicise myself, give priority to pig farming compared to the production of beef and beef or chicken, etc. I don't want that. I don't want to, because I want our work to give certain results. As an MP, I would like to say that I will vote for this law and I would like to invite those who wanted to deceive this parliament by 50 times increasing the numbers as damage to this law, we have confirmed that the word of a million might be KM being dropped with this customs tariff, but that is why the ransom is being launched, we have the work of several hundred thousand workers in processing, and ultimately we are solving something that is for 2004. We have a proposal for Mrs. Sead Palavrić's conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes to take effect within five months. We find that a similar decision by the Council of Ministers exists, but that no one here has information that it is harmful, which means it can be at least zero, but people are working positively, and that is why I would like some of the original political intentions when it comes to this law to really be left behind, and in the interest of the work of people in the processing of meat and domestic production to support this law. I would also like to believe that the legislator will once again turn to the authorities, to confirm some things, but, indeed, if we want to look at the responsibly how things have happened, since trying to block customs, the customs entry limit, because this import is coming without customs, etc. the strike of certain agricultural producers here, and if this is one solution, we are not happy to support, let me say, the palitative solutions, but it's better than nothing, and that's the solution. I wish we'd directed more with questions with demands, with analyses, so that for the 2005 law, we'd be more complete, more responsible and clearer. I would really ask 68 MPs, those who consider this law to have certain advantages, to vote it, and to condition with certain conclusions, to achieve a guarantee for the purchase of the domestic one, what is that price? Prices are formed, prices are known on the domestic market, they can't be found, here are the people who are just domestic meat producers, who already know what prices to buy. They're not strange things. We may be unknown to them as MPs. The people who are in this profession are well-known to them all these terms. Whoever deals with meat processing knows these terms well what MPs are saying here, that they don't know, they don't know what it means to them. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13059	I admire Mr. Hadžić. The word is Mrs Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13060	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, MPs, When I took an oath in December 2002, as I remember the text, it says there I will work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we have today a proposal to amend the law, I must remind myself that last November we passed a law on an indirect taxation system in BiH and formed a fiscal bank in BiH. In Article 3 of that law, this law regulates the administration for indirect taxation, as an independent administrative organisation, which implements legal and other rules on indirect taxation and policy established by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Management Board. So that's what Article 3 says. This proposal we have today is only from the Council of Ministers. He didn't come from the board of directors, as it says in this law, Article 3. It's in Article 4 of this law. The administration is the only body in BiH, which is eligible for the implementation of legislation on indirect taxation and policy, established by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Committee, as well as for the collection and distribution of indirect taxes. We have given this much authority to this institution, which is the fiscal bank of BiH, because it has been formed to create overall macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability of BiH and to support the funkconsuming of a single economic space, which is what the European Commission is asking us to do in these additional sixteen, these are the two main conditions regarding the economy. And you see what her obligations are in Article 2 that all levels of government in BiH should serve with funds. That is why no possibility has been left for any other body in BiH to change the sources of funds, which go towards financing the purposes of the state's appraisal, without the consent of this administrative approval of this institution, which I call, because I am an economist, such as the Central Bank, the monetary bank of BiH, is a fiscal bank. So, as an MP, I will vote in accordance with this law. The proposal is incomplete, it doesn't comply with the law, I won't be able to support this law. Thank you very much. Let me just say two more sentences. As far as agriculture is concerned, the agricultural direct producer, whether it sows, plantes orchards, sows grain or tows of livestock or is engaged in vegetable farming, is placed on vertrometics, borders are spread and the waste is related to it from the environment. And, it's done in a certain way, the consequences are what's happened in the last ten years, and the consequences of the contracts we signed, if we're a serious society and if we say we're really going to support, all of us doing what's been asked of us on the path of Euryptic integration, then I don't think there's a word we're talking about right now to break the contracts. We can't get into this business, because with this proposal, these 69 tariffs, we've entered the process of derivating what we adopted six months ago as chairman and we can't get into it. If the Council of Ministers, headed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Security, in accordance with this law, that the board of directors of the fiscal house, which we established to agree on these tariffs, I am voting immediately, because it is in accordance with the law, will wait until mourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13061	Thank you very much. The hearings are over. Business intervention, Mr. Belkić, and I am calling after that debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13062	...have full information. Maločas chairman of the Council of Ministers spoke here and explained some things, but he said the following. So he suggests some compromise solution, so he says, here's phase one, one-third, and then an analysis of the report, and so on. It would be good for someone to explain it on behalf of the promoter. Namely, there are some other things that should be explained here. You know, we knew in fact what it was that chairman of the Council as some alternative here suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13063	I thank Mr. Belkić. The debate is closed. After three minutes, two representatives of the task force and finally on behalf of the promoter, Mr Tošić. Here you go. I'm asking you to introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13064	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor of speaking to you as the first peasant in front, or with these payphones to the Members of Parliament. I, then many don't know me Vladimir Usorac, come from Prnjavor, otherwise a peasant. I do agricultural production at 12 hectares of my own country, about a dozen hectares of the leased land, and for a time I worked 70 hectares of the state country. I've got a cow farm, a pig, I've had counters, so I shut that farm down during the war. I am the first farmer in BiH, who received a certificate of organic production from war-stocer production... and I am glad to be able to call here my friend Nakaš, not some MPs from the RS, because I want to say that my production is now one-third of what I was in the 1980s, everything I did, I did with my own hands and I don't come from a team of people who were involved in the war. In the war, I lost my assets, not that there was a war in Prnjavor, but that I couldn't work, I couldn't do business. We didn't ask you to do anything in the war. We're looking for now, nine years after the war, nine years you've been sitting in those benches, when I say you, I don't mean just you, I mean all your predecessors. In the Council of Ministers and in all other bodies, I am the president of the Association of Agricultural Producers of the Republic of Slovenia and, together with my fellow Federation colleagues, last year and despite all obstacles, we created an association of BiH and I can tell you that we agree extremely well, that we have no problems and some MPs, who here say that we, that the processors are wrong. I do everything I do, I process for my 70 own needs, for my own household, and everything else I sell to our industries, our meat processing, the dairy industry and everything else. So, I'm only the primary producer and the ones I want to talk about here are the primary producers. You have a million memos and you can have them far more, because only in one canton of Tuzla, you have 460 associations, not just agriculture, but all associations and, just for a moment, to refer to the letter of one association, which many here have read and spoken and called for doctoral titles. It is about the BiH Processors' Association or the Business Association, as they call it, led by Dr. Gagić, Lativnović, Nebojša Rakić, all that they produce and what they have produced, that I do not leave this room, I will buy under full material and moral responsibility. They have an association, but they don't have production, because the three of them don't do anything, but they don't do anything. Mr. Gagić is a professor, Latinović deals with some premixes, and Rakić has ruined Zivnino's Živninoprodukt and is now sitting in the Cepter Bank chair, is the bank's director, and he wants to write this parliament what is wrong with us and what is wrong with us. The other problem is, I realize now, is this what we tried to do, you didn't study in colleges, you didn't even learn when you were a doctor, this is a country philosophy. It's the most difficult philosophy, and that's why you didn't understand. And I didn't come out here to give you a lecture, but I came out to convince you that this is good for us primary producers, and that it's bad for the processors, that it doesn't exactly bring them the good that you think it brings them, but it brings us good, and I'm going to show it to you on one example and I'm going to show it to you at the very end. As far as the effects are concerned, there have been various things that have been brought forth as truths and half-truths. We still have one very big problem. Last night we had him at a meeting in Banja Luka that people were discussing something, based on knowledge, and they didn't even read the material. They're giving their grades. That people who have nothing to do with this production want to manage this production. We're the state we are. This is how we made it, and we need to find solutions for us, and we're only looking for one thing, to make us an ambience, and that we work, we produce our own, and we can do our own. We're not asking anything else of you. I agree with the president of the SDA's club that you're not in our shoes. Well, you can't be. My hands are far different from yours, I don't underestimate you, you're doing another job, I'm doing others. Only if I can get a few more things out of here, so telegraph. As for this example, here we go, if you want about pigs. Right now, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, I apologize if I mistake someone's name to say how we got to these figures. We came here simply. If we had 20,000 pigs, times that ratio, and we came to some tons of times a kilo of pigs from 100 to 120 kilograms, same with bulls, we came to some proportions, which are that. No Niko's going to introduce this if he doesn't buy his homework unless that amount is produced domestically. No one can get in. No imports until domestic production. So when it's produced, bought and paid, then someone gets a license, because in that decision, don't let us go back to wasting our time, some of us have crossed over, cheated on us, but don't let her get back we're gonna lose time, and it's not that important. What we're going to achieve, here, is that country philosophy. We now have 3,100 pigs in RS or in BiH, something with 71 Hercegovina, we have exactly written by the manufacturer's name and last name number of pigs, the weight of pigs and everything. So, we have that information. We now need nine thousand pigs for the processors to import one part of these quotas, whether it's 21,000 in total. We'll call it in now, somebody said prices. Prices are exactly set and prices, let's say the pig is from 1.80 to 3.50 o'clock on those walks of class. We're about to open a tender for the sale of 3,000 pigs. The butchers will come to the tender, as they want to import some preferential consequences, privileged prices, they will have to take domestic pigs, there will no longer be 3.5 pig marks, but it will be 4.5. It's that subsidy that we want to get out of the state through the carnivores, it's that rural philosophy you didn't understand, that's what we're going to do, it's not as good as you think it is good and it's for them, it's for us because we've made four months of effort to get to one of these decisions. Is she the solution to agriculture? No, but it is in the current situation, we're going to run the cattle production, it's going to start the war. And it's up to you to make an ambience, to move on, it's up to you, but I can't wait nine more years.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13065	Mr. Usorac, we understand your message. We accept suggestion. I think you've made enough arguments on behalf of your position, let's see if there's anyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13066	Just the Chamber of Commerce. The chambers of commerce are old, state-owned and represent state-owned enterprises. We're not represented by the hundreds of thousands of rural households of the Chamber of Commerce. Neither are we in those chambers of commerce, and since I was on board, there was a Federation whether she brought it, didn't bring it, participated in the ministries didn't. Do you know why the problem came up? Not one, twice was Minister Trkulja, and no other minister was or a member of the agriculture ministry twice on the commission, they were changing. Imagine you in those benches changing every day, so you wouldn't know what happened and they don't know what was on the commission. Because other people kept coming to new things and they don't know what was before and that's the problem. The Federal Assembly has brought no support for this, and the Federation Ministry has issued a licence for importing seven hundred tons of chicken meat before this and is not responsible for putting this into one legal framework, because then they will no longer be able to issue permits and stir as they interfered. There's still a lot to talk about. I don't want to take your time, I want to tell you that this is our chance. You can either give it to us or take it away from us. It's up to you both to the opposition and the position. I ask you to be unique.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13067	Thank you very much, Mr. Usorac. I expect that this location, which is truly pronounced, will be used in the next elections and I wish it much happiness both in agricultural production and in the protection of interest. We still have a duty to a member of the task force. Here's whoever wants it from you, and I'm closing the debate, and we're moving on to a plea. Three minutes. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13068	Chairman, esteemed MPs, I am pleased to address you on behalf of the processing industry in BiH that I have heard a lot of talk about here today. On behalf of the BiH meat processing industry, I can say that this law is not the happiest solution. Because this law requires domestic carnivores to buy something that is more expensive, or something that is not marketable, while at the same time we have competition on free trade contracts and neighbouring countries, which only buys what is marketable, in fact what can be found on that market at the prices that can be found. As far as the meat processing industry is concerned, I think we're all prepared to take out the meat processing industry. Not to export the products, but to export the meat processing industry, because the fact that meat processors are working with 30% of their capacity today, and we can expect every day that this is the actual inability to survive, we've been brought into the decline stage. Someone mentioned the woodworking industry. There's no difference between carnivorous production and woodworking. There is one difference that our primary production cannot perform its balvana, under quotes I speak to the balvana, because it cannot get a veterinary certificate, because we have no conditions to export to the European Community, and countries from environments and contracts that are signed must be objective... for the European Community. At the same time, you, we don't have the opportunity to verify ourselves because of the attractive legislation for exports to the European Community. As for someone saying that chicken booth is imported by 0.80 or that it's some kind of garbage or something. I believe that's who's talking is working in the interest of the economy of neighbouring countries. Why? The same raw materials, the same technology is applied in both BiH and Croatia and everywhere. The same raw materials are placed in both Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, and BiH. You say that our carnivores put poison into it, and these products come from neighbouring countries, so gentlemen ask yourselves, whose economy we protect and who we protect. Are we protecting domestic production, or are we protecting neighbors who import these products? Secondly, we need to separate the carnivores and the confection. Now we're here, the orm says they've gotten us into a conflict under quotes. We owe it to the entire animal. We of all animals don't know what to do. I don't know what I'm gonna do with the whole animal. When, according to free trade contracts, I get nine kunas of heroism from Croatia, and I have to at these prices and at what cost he asks me to buy it, it's 2.80. Gentlemen, nine kunas is less than two stamps or something more, two and ten. And I, by 2.90, am obliged to buy this out and you say this is an intruding industry. Give the law amending the Customs Tariff Act, set it the way it is set up in Croatia. Set the way for importing triple-used chicken meat in Croatia is 10% customs, and where are we in all of this? Where's the processing industry? Why are we running more, why is this kind of nonstop cape setting up some sort of smuggling lobby, some sort of importing some junk, some garbage and something like that, so people stop it, that's the interest of neighbouring countries, we're working in the interest of neighbouring countries. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13069	Please, mate, one more minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13070	As far as income is concerned. What kind of arrivals? What revenue? What revenue we're reducing here. Look how imported it's been since the new year. Nothing's been imported since the new year. How are we going to import, pay 200 percent customs on something and on the finished product when 0 percent is made, so people make any sense. And, once again in the end, at the very end, so I think this is for the meat processing industry, some kind of immediate solution that can keep us alive, not that this is a permanent solution. I believe that a permanent solution is importing customs rates as they are in Croatia for raw materials for the meat processing industry. Once again, I highly appreciate, I am surprised by the individual representatives who spoke here in the interest of primary agricultural production, especially the presidents of the SDA Club, because she said the clean problem that arises in agricultural production, because I shared it with these people. Another remark, I don't intend to do politics.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13071	Thank you very much, Mr. Tošić, Deputy Minister and we are moving on to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13072	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, the distinguished representatives of the association... the Honorable Ministers, I just want to say why we have made such a proposal, because we have been for a year now, so to speak in constant,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13073	Mr. Tošić, we already got that from the minister, if you have something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13074	We have these arguments, so I say we went with this proposal. The minister, or chairman of the presidency, Mr. Terzić has proposed and I think we can support it to go with this law that there are one third of these quotas, I have recalculated them, there is no need, you all know them, we can do a full analysis, then we can respond to Mr. Špirić and our other respected MPs, to prove through this analysis that we have right now and how we have encouraged primary agricultural production, what are the effects and how we have in some way enabled our carnivores to be competitive with their products, especially now that they are on stage free trade contracts with neighbouring countries. What I want to say to the honourable MPs is, we have tried to suspend the free trade agreement, for three months it has been in force, what happened, we, frankly to be in the Stability Pact, have experienced great criticism, a terrible 74 warnings, is said, you who want to and apply for entry into the European Union, for entering the WTO can no longer play in this way with contracts, so we no longer have a theoretical chance of doing and for a respected representative Fatima Leho just a response, related to the administrative good of the indirect tax administration. He hasn't lived up to it yet you know, so it's theoretically, you're right, but you know he's not in full operation yet, and that's why they didn't even let us go to the whole customs tariff law because of that until the administration came to life and it was suggested by the CAFAO. That's why many of the questions you've had as MPs to know, we've brought in at this point. We haven't been able to get an opinion from them yet, nor has the board of directors of this administration been completed on indirect taxation. I think this is enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13075	Thank you very much. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13076	I'm not going to open the debate, I'm going to open it because the deputy minister said he was offering an answer to me. I got it all figured out. So if someone from the Council of Ministers thinks that when they offer the law, the law adopts that they can use one third, two thirds, four thirds, thank you very much, you really came up with a model that is nowhere in the world. If the Council of Ministers didn't know before entering this account, now you're trying to convince me that you'll have one third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13077	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I have a number of suggestions here. First, we declare ourselves on the law with the proposal that we have received from the president, the now-authorized proposal, or the Council of Ministers on one-third of the quotas, the achievement and analysis that will be submitted to Parliament. I'm asking the MPs to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13078	From the RS Prime Minister, so what Mr. Terzić was saying, we'll probably go for
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13079	I can't really take responsibility and bring all the elements you've got to Mr. Jovanović. We all got it. I've secured the president. Indeed, he has confirmed here clearly that he has agreement with the resolute ministers of the government. Don't put us in a situation right now so we don't finish this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13080	I'm saying that, apparently, the fate of this law will depend on our votes. So if we don't get it and if, then the law won't pass. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13081	Well, I don't know what you didn't get. Well, we got an explanation here from the Council of Ministers, which you asked for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13082	I think I made myself clear. I'm asking in writing, in writing I'm asking the Prime Minister that after one-third, it means quantities, if he can deliver it in writing, I said we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13083	That is the conclusion of Parliament. I'm putting him to the vote. If we adopt him, he's in writing and he's binding on the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13084	No, no, there's no such conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13085	Well, I said I'd put him to the vote and that's the conclusion with the law, and then we'll come to all the conclusions separately. You know why he can't. This was offered by the authorising officer as an explanation for the adoption of this law. Don't tell me you can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13086	...the law as it is and we can plead on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13087	We declare the law and the obligation of our conclusion that we will oblige the Council of Ministers to apply this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13088	We can only plead to the text of the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13089	I will put it to the proposal and conclusion proposed by the chairman and the authorised legislator and the law. I said I'd put everything to the vote. I ask the MPs to plead and under what conditions I put it to the vote, Mr Jovanović. I ask the MPs at the House of Representatives to declare on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Please vote now. So he has the general majority, he doesn't have the entity majority. 76 There is no consent in the College. Let's go to the next round of voting. I ask all MPs to plead both from the Federation and from the RS who is against this law. Only those who are against it vote? Now. I've all said it. Listen up. I'm asking the students for some attention. You know I'm required by all your rights, and when it comes to fulfilling obligations, then you don't behave in a consistent manner. I have to tell some of them. This isn't meant for everyone. I'll do it again. I ask the representatives first of the Federation to be precise until the end and, if possible, thanks to this voting system that we both plead at the same time, but now that there are no misunderstandings, I ask first the representatives of the Federation, those who are opposed to pleading. Now vote. So, as far as the Federation is concerned, the law has been passed. There's not enough votes against it. Let's go to the RS MP's statement, please state by voting now. With 11 votes against, then, the law did not get the required majority in the second round of voting, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I agree that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives did not accept the draft law amending the Customs Tariff Act. I thank everyone. A gentleman from the Council of Ministers from the task force. We still have a proposal for a conclusion. Do you, Mrs. Palavrić, stay at your conclusions? Thank you very much. We still have a proposal for Mr Špirić's conclusion. You got it in writing. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the representative, Mr Nikola Špirić. Please vote now. So it was the general majority, it wasn't the entity majority. We went on a date. The college has agreed to accept this mutilation. Pema thus, the conclusion proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić, that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with the aim of restoring and raising domestic production, is tasked by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to ban the export of raw materials from BiH within 60 days, to the level to which domestic processing facilities are required in BiH. I hereby conclude the first item of the 37th session, and I ask the representatives, since we are limited by time, by our services, my proposal is to declare the ninth and eighth points. So, on accepting the joint commission's report on harmonising the text of police officers' law and giving consent to ratification, we'll have the next session at 9.6 when we can continue, finish this and move on to a new session. It takes the services half an hour to prepare the conditions for a session to address the loud secret NATO alliances. Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13090	I just wanted to say I accept, of course, this plan that you've proposed, but I've been here a long time, I don't know what's going on with the other MPs on Fridays, usually it was Fridays I'm not getting a weekly schedule for next week. So I don't know what law, which is the law in the procedure, which law I'm supposed to submit amendments to, etc. It makes this job a lot harder for me as an agent. We have always received a weekly schedule when which commission and which law is on schedule.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13091	I thank Mr. Zorić. I think the intervention is completely justified. I'm getting information that there's no person who's been doing this right now, so we need to work it out. It's a task of service and a kolegja and will be realized, Mr Zorić. I thank you. Please, MPs, we're moving on to the 8th item of the agenda. Ad.8. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Police Officers Act You have received a report from the Commission. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. I propose that the House of Representatives be declared to accept the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Police Officers Act. Please vote now. With 32 votes in, two against. No one abstentioned. 24 from the Federation, 8 from RS. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives has accepted the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Police Officers Act. I thank the MPs. I suggest that the home be given the right to agree in the package to ratify the agreement as it stands in the agenda. You've received a report from the committee in charge. Can we take it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. There's no record of a hearing. We move to a statement on point 7 and on giving consent to ratification, so I will read a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the United States on the protection and preservation of certain cultural property, (b) the Agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Farncu on the reciprocal improvement and protection of investments, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Albania on the elimination of vision for holders of diplomatic official passports, (d) the Treaty on Free Trade between BiH and Romania, (e) the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, in view of the automatic processing of personal data in connection with the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, (g) the automatic processing of Personal Data, 78 f) the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, as regards the automatic processing of Personal Data in relation to the Supervisory Authorities and the Transboundary Data, (g) Amendment number II of the Creditation of the Bank and the Treaty of BiH. I find that the House of Representatives unanimously, without votes against and abstentions, has given consent to ratifying those agreements as I have read. At this point, I'm concluding the work of this part of the session. The extension will be based on these points, which are on the agenda, most likely on 9.06. you will receive a written notice in time, and I ask all MPs to be in their seats at 4 and 15 to ensure the conditions for the address of the NATO Secretary-General, and the club chiefs to secure one question on behalf of the clubs, if there is an interest. Thank you very much. We'll continue at four o'clock and 15 minutes. 79 Representatives, honored guests, continue with the 37th session. The sitting is attended by 31 MPs, so we can make a full decision, i.e. we have a quorum for the session. The absence of today's session was justified by Mr. Suljkanović, Mr. Đedović, Mr. Blagojević, and the delay was announced by Mr. Novaković. I don't have a record for the others. So, sit down, I repeat again, there's a quorum for work and decision-making. I'll remind you that at the first extension of this session, we finished the first, seventh and eighth points of the agenda, and the rest were not realised the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. Ray's reminders I'll read you the agenda that we'll discuss in the follow-up of this session. Point two, two. Request by Agent Nikola Spiric to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council, in accordance with Article 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Proposal for a Law on Citizenship of BiH, pursuant to Article 104, is required by MP Nikola Špirić. Rules of Procedure, 4. Council of Ministers' request to consider draft law on bottled drinking waters of BiH, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a law on mediation procedure second reading and under 6. The appointment of a member of the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs, instead of Mr Hasan Muratović. We're moving on to the realization of these points. The request shall mean point two, Ad2. Proposal for a Bill on the Completion of the Law on the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council under an urgent procedure Špirić to Article 105. Rules of Procedure You have received this proposal from colleagues Špirić. Does Mr. Špirić want to explain his request? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13093	President-in-Office, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, Mr Minister, I, of course, have asked for amendments and amendments to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, in accordance with Article 105, for the reason that only one member is amended, for the reason that all judges are concerned, therefore, according to the decision of the High Representative, so to Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others, this is not a partial solution but a general solution of 80 for all. I just want to remind you, I think we'd do the right thing if we adopted a change like this. And you know that these judges, so the BiH Court of Justice, 7 of them were put on the initiative or on the basis of the High Representative's decision. A number of amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH followed the publication, after which a member of the same law, who had given the possibility to elect BiH judges for a specified period of time, had been completely deleted for up to 5 years, so that there was no longer any provision on the term of office of judges for a specified time in the current text of that law. How is the provision of Articles 22 and 65? The Law on the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council approved that the term of office of the Court of Justice of BiH is until 70th, which I suggest is that this same supplement also applies to the appointed judges, according to the High Representative's decision. It seems to me that we would have made a kind of discrimination if we had, say, left that possibility without being regulated by this law. So that's the only reason. There's a letter that we got from an official from the summons so old, but now the Old Judicial and Prosecutor's Council, in which they warn it wouldn't be good. So we don't have the position of the newly appointed Judiciary and Prosecutor's Council, but that's less important to me. I think this is the task of the Parliamentary Assembly's representative council, which adopts and adopts laws and can adopt and adopt amendments. That was the only reason I asked for Article 105's procedure because there were no major changes. So if you appreciate that this is good, you'll support it if you appreciate that it's not good you won't support it. So I think this would be a short change that would be in the spirit of equal rights for everyone in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13094	I thank Mr. Špirić. I'm opening a debate. I've got two reports. The first was Mrs. Palavrić, then Mr. Jusufović, and then Mr. Beriz Belkić. That's what I do, here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13095	Thank you very much. Let me state my opinion that today it is immaterial to discuss Mr Špirić's proposal for a law on the basis of which the Law on the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council published on 21 May 2004 and on that day came into force, and in that law in Article 92 of the Law on which Mr Špirić wishes to intervene, he ceased to apply as entity laws. So it's legally impossible to intervene today at all on a law that has ceased to apply. On the other hand, if this obstacle did not exist, I do not think it would be correct if Parliament directly interfered with the choice of judges and prosecutors, and this would be the situation because the names are now known and the fact is that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council have not given up, they have not had the opportunity to give their opinion. And I think it would get what's contrary to the spirit of the law and that has ceased to apply to the new law. With that, I think it would be best for fellow Špirić to withdraw his bill if not, then I don't know this is neither to refuse but we lawyers would say no. Thank you. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13096	Thank you. The word has Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13097	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will also, so as not to waste too much time on you, I also support this, and I thought the same thing Mrs. Seada said because it is without substance today to discuss the amendment of the law that we adopted earlier in the last session. It is also necessary to allow this, the thinking that we must not immediately go to make precedents under the adopted law. This would not be the only precedent because it has already been prepared for a particular initiative to practically legalise some previous situation through such initiatives. So, I'm absolutely against this kind of thing, but Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to use this point already, since this sequel is also tied up, you know that we've passed the Law on the High Judicial Judicial Council. Please, if you've looked, here I have, if you need to deliver, the High Representative appointed members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council after the adoption of the law, it's a precedent that doesn't happen in this practice. A harsh violation of the law, so he did everything contrary to the provisions of that law. I wouldn't read to you members, but I'm asking you, not that we're talking to ourselves, but the Justice Department needs it, and I'm asking you to use this initiative to get the Justice Department to do a job under the law, not to get involved, because it's precisely stated which members, structure, how much state level, how many entities, how much Brcko District. Please, this is important because this may be a decisive match and a battle because this harsh violation of OHR of everything this one is trying to do. So, first of all, I think that this one and this one should be rejected, and I'm also asking Mr Špirić to withdraw this request because it's immaterial to discuss it, but to have a huge time on this issue, because this question is too important. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13098	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. Mr. Špirić again, go ahead, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13099	The Department of Justice to comply with the law, I apologize to the need to coordinate the appointment of a commission, so if it turns out that the one appointed by the OHR is temporary while it is determined that we are doing according to our laws, because the law has not been amended. He did it right after this law, and to ask for perhaps the OHR's opinion to be given by him to give his statement as to why he's breaking, he's harshly violating what we're bringing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13100	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13101	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I'll be in touch very shortly. So this is an initiative which was submitted in accordance with Article 105 at a time when it was possible to comply with Article 105 and the second thing is that it was not placed as a item of the agenda at the time that Article 105 allowed it. And now Article 105 allows if we understand the essence and if we are on the same line, if we're not MPs will vote the way they think, but we don't need to exercise ourselves in the position of the High Representative. I have never been an attorney for the International Community of the High Representative, nor will I be now, but the question is why is the High Representative in this country doing what the domestic institutions of the government should do. You know that the first members of the Election Commission appointed the High Representative because parliaments did not do their part of the job on time. You know that the High Prosecutor's Council wasn't appointed in time, so the International Community was doing a part of the work for us. And it's true that if they don't want state institutions in accordance with the law, then they can't stand up. So I do not argue that it is better to do a job than to outwit the people from which the entity is, whether it is from Brcko District because these activities take years and would never be established by the Court of BiH without strong support from the OHR and the High Representative. And that's what to say. So it's easy now to be wise when certain activities are done. The other thing, Sead, a colleague of Sead, is, this is an intervention in choice. It's not true, it's giving everyone the same chance. What does that mean? Someone who appointed the High Representative has been spent for all time and can't go anywhere else. It's God's punishment. Why the first-named judges of the BiH Court, who did part of the job and therefore formed the Court, would now be punished because party teams are playing some changes. So in that sense, I just wanted to intervene, but if the MPs here think this sucks, okay, I don't mind. I am a man, an MP who therefore proposes, and your will, your understanding will be a relationship to this proposal. So, you can change this if you want. I wanted to intervene at the last session, because the amendments and additions to the laws were not passed in the House of Peoples. I have this proposal prepared, too, if we're thinking the same thing, but obviously we think differently and I don't know what to do now. To make any correction, you will have your own political stance, and therefore I ask you to plead. I am not angry and that this goes away and falls, but we seem to be making a mistake and I think it is unfair to impose what BiH authorities are not doing, at the Office of the High Representative on him personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13102	I thank Mr. Špirić. So the correction of the wrong quote, Mr Miloš Jovanović, then Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13103	..related to the BiH Election Commission that this commission was to be appointed by this House in the past term. But nothing came to us. So it's not the House of Representatives, it's to someone who probably did it on purpose, so the High Representative can do it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13104	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13105	My colleagues and colleagues, I really need to get involved in this debate, although it is a procedural matter. This has both procedural and essential significance. I am procedurally in favour of what my colleague Palavrić said, because it is absolutely legal to discuss this bill without substance because look, of course in the text offered to us, it is proposed to amend the law which has ceased to apply by adopting the new law and which has entered into force. So, really from a formal point of view, a groundless thing. Another thing, we can even set things up like this. At the time when the bill was tabled, even in accordance with Article 105, we were in the final discussion of the Bill's proposal, the new Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and then, indeed, from the procedural point of view, the question could be raised why was possibly not this amendment proposed in the form of an amendment to the law that we were just considering and at whose final stage of adoption we were at that point of view? But here is the formal side of things, therefore, in my legal opinion, but also, essentially, there is absolutely no basis to discuss today's amendment, the procedure for considering the law that simply more in the BiH Right System with these markings, this number of official papers in this content does not exist. The essential side of the matter, since the legislator of the law, Col. Špirić spoke of it, just two sentences, please
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13106	I'm asking the MPs for
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13107	I'm sorry, just two sentences. As far as I know, by adopting new reform laws both in the field of justice and in the field of administration, etc. in all of these, in all of these cases, it was envisaged, so to speak, a period of new appointments. When we first started reforming the judiciary, this audit, or new....even the judges who were appointed to a term that was not theirs, was expired. Therefore, for principle reasons, indeed, whoever says that any of the proposed judges, or appointed High Representative, will not be elected to normal procedures. Nobody said that at all. But it would just be unprincipled to single this group of judges specifically because neither the original state administration workers, they were all audited, nor were any judges excluded from this. Therefore, on the contrary, just for this very principled reason, this matter should not be accepted. I say that one more time, it doesn't mean that people may not be elected tomorrow, and it's not at all about any political one, or party stuff, but I've been trying to discuss it exclusively as a lawyer, and we think that's the way it should be looked at at right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13108	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. So first, we declare Mr Špirić's request to consider this according to the procedure of Article 105. 84 I ask the MPs to place the cards, once again check and to be made known by the vote on this request. Vote now. So for it was 8, versus 19, abstention 4. Mr Nikola Špirić's request for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure didn't get most of it. And this request can go to regular procedure. Thank you very much. We're going over and point three, that's Ad.3. Request of Mr Nikola Špirić's representative to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure also received this request. Does Mr. Špirić want to explain this? So this is just a procedure. Does anyone want to discuss this request? He doesn't want to. I'm closing up. We move on to a statement on Mr Nikola Špirić's request to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Citizenship Act under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. For 18, versus 14, abstention 1. 10 from the Federation, 8 from the RS. This request has received the required majority. I thank the MPs. Moving to point four, that's Add.4. Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Pre-Dog Act on bottled drinking waters of BiH, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And you got this request on time. Does anyone want to go on behalf of the promoter? Minister Doko, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13109	Mr. President, honourable MPs, the reasons for the adoption of this Law on bottled waters of BiH, are contained in the need for an adequate, uniform arrangement of the conditions for the transport of bottled drinking waters on the BiH market. The existing regulations do not uniformly regulate these issues throughout BiH, nor provide quality consumer protection against domestic and import products that do not meet basic quality requirements and health protection. Also, the decision to launch an initiative for BiH's EU accession, "The Official Messenger of BiH" No 3/99 and to confirm BiH's intention to apply the transitional standards for 85 bottled drinking water determines the need to harmonize the matter in question with EU directives. This law and provisions of this law are in line with EU directives 987380777 and 89107. And the third reason why the adoption of this law is necessary is the fact that the adoption of a single law on bottled drinking water at BiH level is included in OHR Buldožder's commission's priorities. As regards the objectives of this law, they are processed in Article 2 and read as follows; (a) The adoption of necessary measures to ensure that bottled drinking water is intended for consumption of clean and healthy, (b) the adoption of measures to introduce modern quality standards for the integrity of the process, in order to ensure that the facilities in which the products or preparations of drinking water are subject to generally accepted international practices and sanitary standards, (c) the adoption of the necessary measures to ensure that the application of non-compliant provisions and regulations of entities and lower levels of government do not interfere with the trade in bottled drinking waters and the last, d) the harmonisation of BiH law with those Directives. I can say that when we were making this law we had a very long period where we tried together with entity ministries and all the competent institutions this law that made the Buldozhder Commission and delivered to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, to process this whole law, therefore, from the point of view of BiH. We had a very different opinion in the process even felt that this area should not be regulated by law at all. So many thoughts went in that direction to do it with a rule, which would only make it bottled drinking water? Which is why some other products would not be so, and in this process I can say that there was no agreement within the commission that we appointed and which in its own system had representatives of entity ministries and other institutions. After the intervention and OHR concerning the fulfilment of our obligations to the Buldozhder Commission, we have decided to refer this law to the parliamentary procedure to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and later the Council of Ministers at their meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13110	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Before I open the debate, I would like to ask the services, and I have asked the secretary, the secretary of the Joint Service, to respect the order of the session and the conditions for the work of the MPs. This was the agreement, and if there is a need for something to be delivered to MPs, it can either be delivered at a stop or we can agree on a way to work. Thank you very much. If anyone wants to get involved in the debate on the request of the Council of Ministers regarding the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13111	I therefore support the adjustment of this issue at the state level and I am one of those who welcomes the more extensive legislation of the state Parliament and, of course, from that point of view that I support even considering this law under Article 104, so in some accelerated procedure. In the opening statement, the minister came in little and for reasons of law-making, which is the next phase of the debate, on the committee responsible, and mentioned in the Constitution that there was no agreement in the working group in the expert group, when preparing the text of the law, whether this should be regulated by law or by some other act, regulation, etc. I just got up to say, that what I should do right now is give a whole wide argument to the Commission itself on the grounds that this issue is being dealt with by law rather than by regulation, because, in the meantime, by consulting on this subject, it is still a prevailing approach in other countries that these issues are being arranged to say so by means of a sublegal act. Now, before we have this announcement of how it's called about food safety or what it's going to be called, so this could be settled in general matters, in general, by that law. So, I support that it still goes into further procedure, but until then, you really need to try and give MPs a convincing answer why exactly the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13112	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13113	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, I believe that the Regulation regulates the finding and quality and the law applies or regulates sanctions for not complying with that Regulation. That's why the law has to be passed and I absolutely support it, and here's Mr. Ćeman and I, but I'm giving an explanation because you know what it is, if you did an analysis of everything that's been drank and what's bottled in BiH, it would be catastrophic indicators. So I'm telling Ćeman because he asked for the answer to the rule and the law and I'm in favor of the law and the procedure, so don't get nervous right now. Well, well, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13114	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. I ask all MPs to respect each other, we respect the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want to do the procedure? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I would ask the MPs to declare by voting on the Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH under Article 104. Please vote now. 87 I find that the House of Representatives unanimously with 35 votes for, no one against, no one abstention has accepted the Council of Ministers' request that this law be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I would also like to thank Minister Doki, Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Moving to point five, Ad.5. The draft law on the mediation procedure in the second reading at last session ladies and gentlemen MPs, we adopted this bill in the first reading. I remind you of the report of the committee responsible containing the 12 amendments adopted. In the plenary phase, we have amendments to Mr selo Bešlagić, who called for Article 94(3) of the Rules of Procedure. So we have a debate on the amendments. I'm opening that debate. Anybody, Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13115	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I was the last time we discussed the issue of these amendments in the first reading, in fact I also set the principles of this law. For the Serbian Democratic Party Club, it is absolutely unacceptable to amend Mr Bešlagić because we have just changed the law on the commission so that it is not the Mediator Association Act but the Mediation Procedure Act. And it really does not make sense that by one law in the process of mediation we determine in advance and who will carry out the procedure. And it is even going so far that Article 33 of the Law says, the Mediators' Association is required within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law to adopt the necessary acts to implement the law. So we're giving these laws orders to an association. We know how associations are formed, so we know that they form under the Association and Foundations Act, and we know that these powers that the state has here can be given to an association, even those that are listed here, but we know how and by what procedure. That is why the Serbian Democratic Party Club is against these amendments and I must say immediately that unless the amendments of course are conditional but I am informing the House that if the amendments get this, most of us will not support the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13116	Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13117	What Mr. Novaković said, I must stress that the amendment is absolutely not out of principle. It is the Law on Mediation at BiH level and should not be passed by any other law that will discuss the application of this law. Therefore, I agree to the amendment and to put it to a vote. 88 As far as Amendment II is concerned, I think that after this explanation of yours, I also feel that there must be a state institution that will give the right to represent and I step down from Amendment II but provided that the amendment I is accepted as a solution that really does not bother anyone. As far as the third amendment is concerned, if someone does not do what is required in the third amendment, this law will never come to life. For these reasons, if the amendment promoter had been given there and if the commission had said who would do it, I would have said the procedural acts for the implementation of this law, I would have given up the third amendment as well. But someone has to do those acts to bring this law back to life. If that's not done, believe me, this law has no chance of resuscitating. So please, if the third amendment, I'm ready, if it were defined who would do that part, like this, now I'll say it. You're required to delete... The BiH Mediator's Association is obliged to adopt the necessary acts to implement this law within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. But someone has to, I agree with you because the mediators, the Mediator's Association, we're throwing out, that it's the right thing to do. That's what this is about, and that's why I'm asking you to see what you're going to do on the third amendment, but I'm not giving up on the first amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13118	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13119	I explain myself to the amendment promoter because how does the bill promoter know there's a Mediator's Association and there's only one thing. So you should write at least because of the correctness of the Mediator Association. Well at least 3 or 6 or any number divisible by 3. This is Mr. Jusufović's opinion for the shoot. I also don't think it should go with the amendments to the amendments and the HDZ Club won't support this amendment because it's funny for me to make the law because of some association. We can say that the Parliamentary Assembly will assign someone to prepare how to implement this, in conclusion, if you think that there is no but obviously the Proposer knows that he knows and knows this, exactly what he meant by this Article 33. I do not know if there is any association of these mediators in BiH? Well, unfortunately, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13120	Thank you very much. It's a replica, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13121	Well, I'm giving up Amendment II in that sense, and I think that amendment is what I'm pulling. But I remain in it because it is a law at the level of the BiH state and no other law should be passed for it. Read it and you'll see. The law regulates the process of mediation in BiH's territory, and the amendment they have proposed is now forming a new law that will say the law applies. Well, they're nonses. And on the third amendment, I said the procedure should be regulated legally because I'm afraid no one will do so, that this law will remain a dead letter on paper. That's what this is about. So the second amendment I'm giving up. And you're right, it must be another 89 amendments, I give up. And the third one should be given some regulation, I'm asking legal persons who can explain it, I really realized here that you can't let someone do something that's law but someone has to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13122	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Novaković, the replica and Mr. Kunić debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13123	I first thank Mr Bešlagić for giving up Amendment II but his resignation from Amendment II does not make sense if he remains with Amendment III because Amendment III redefined the Mediators' Association in BiH that it is mandatory to adopt the necessary acts within 90 days. The association can't bring in acts. The Department of Justice can do that. We said that, let the Ministry of Justice bring the necessary acts to the realisation of the law and not the association. In that variant, I, given that Mr Bešlagić remains with the amendment I, my intention was to adopt an amendment on the commission to define that these jobs will be done by some associations. Now, I don't know if it's clear to Mr Bešlagić who will be doing these jobs after the adoption of the amendment I? Whether or not it will be done by some associations, given that nowhere else is the concept of the association mentioned if Amendment II and Amendment III do not have any more. So it would be good I did not really dispute with my amendment that the law is on BiH territory or that it covers the entire territory of BiH. It was not the intention of the amendment adopted on the commission, but was intended to say that the mediation affairs would be passed on by special law to the association or association. So, if Mr Bešlagić gives up Amendment III in that variant, we do not dispute Amendment I. So if he gives up Amendment III.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13124	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13125	Presidency, this is about so-called public authority. So, this association can have public powers if it is entrusted with the law, so if the law entrusts the association, it can have public powers but cannot have public powers to enforce the law. This is about law enforcement. Sublaws on law enforcement are passed by the minister, so the minister in charge, he therefore adopts a sublegal general normative act to enforce the law. However, the same association is authorized to pass if the law says so underlegal acts that regulate certain issues, but on the trail of the law. Therefore, it cannot adopt implementing acts, but it can, for example, regulate some relations of broad interest if the law gives this authority because it will issue various beliefs, 90 perform various administrative actions, etc. Therefore, as soon as the public authority makes this content framework public, it should be specified. Therefore, the minister is competent to adopt implementing acts because only the Council of Ministers or ministries is authorised to control or are responsible for law enforcement. Therefore, you cannot give the association that responsibility for....zakon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13126	Thank you. Word has Mr. Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13127	Here is a clue of what Mr. Kunić is about to propose amendments to Amendment III to say that the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice will bring within 90 days of the sublegal act and in these sublegal acts can regulate this issue concerning the Association of Mediators, etc. We would then support this amendment and this amendment to Amendment III, I think we would have quite a consensus then and get this law today. Of course, it is now a matter of the Proposer to accept this amendment to Amendment III and then we would support Amendment I and Amendment III. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13128	I thank Mr. Belkić. Before I give my word to Mr Bešlagić, we cannot rephrase the amendment according to the Rules of Procedure. It can possibly be submitted new to the trace of what you've been saying by calling for Article 94(3). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13129	... The BiH Justice Ministry is required to bring in p-laws within 90 days. So here's the third one I take as a logical thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13130	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Anybody else want some? There are no more applications for discussion. So I'm finalizing the amendment debate. Now we have a situation that Mr. Bešlagić, according to my record, which only had amendments, has given up Amendment II, that instead of Amendment III, he has a new amendment that predicts that 91 of the Ministry of Justice will adopt implementing acts within 90 days and remains Amendment I. Secretary of the House claims that he can, but here is this. If you'd like a word, Mrs. Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13131	Since it is an amendment to the amendment, I believe that the Rules of Procedure do not now allow the amendment to be proposed but 48 hours before the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13132	According to the College's interpretation, we can only plead to the amendments that have been submitted. Go ahead, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that this third amendment, which my colleague Bešlagić was talking about, is actually being understood, you know. And what Professor Kunić was saying is quite understandable when it comes to implementing the law that the Ministry of the Council of Ministers is doing, and I would ask that in this case, given that we cannot support Amendment III at least personally in this formulation as it was before, but that, at the same time, in a technical sense, the Ministry of Justice will determine and we have a present here from the Ministry of Justice, so that Amendment III will normally, in a regular procedure other than Parliament, come back to this stage when a regulation or some other sublaw act will again resolve it. And I think we could get it out of this situation. Just such a suggestion to get past this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13134	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Bešlegić. So we have from the proposings of Amendments II and III, and we declare on the amendment and Mr selo Bešlagić. I ask the MPs to declare the amendment and Mr. selo Bešlagić and vote now. For 17, versus 18, there's no required majority. I agree that the amendment and Mr Bešlagić did not get the necessary majority. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13135	Let me just comment. This is proof that this Parliament only needs someone before... because Mr. Novaković said that if I give up the second and third amendments that he will vote in favour of Amendment I.. hvala you dear MPs and especially you, Mrs. Palavrić, who has just obstructed the Law of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13136	The debate is closed. The vote, too. We can all take the results of the vote and draw conclusions not only about this, but about everything the House of Representatives does. Do you insist, Mr. Zorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13137	I'll be very brief. Mr. Bešlagić, how long do you think the session would take? I'm talking to you. How long would the session take if Mr Raguž and Miro Jović had commented on any amendment that had not passed on the Law on Higher Education. I think it would last until today. This is a comment, just.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-21-1.u13138	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Zorić. We've completed this agenda item, the amendment statement. We move to a statement by the House on the Proposal for a Law on the Mediation Procedure in the Second Reading. I ask the MPs to declare this law in a second reading. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 31 votes in favour of, 3 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority, adopted the proposal for a law on the mediation process and in the second reading. I thank the MPs and we move on to the last item left since the 37th session, it is 93 The appointment of a member of the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs, instead of Mr Hasan Muratović, we have a proposal from the SDA Club to appoint Mr Izet Hadžić instead of Mr Muratović as a member of this Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Can we make a statement about this proposal? I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. So, I find that the House of Representatives with 35 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, unanimously instead of Mr Hasan Muratović appointed Mr Izet Hadžić as the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission. I thank the MPs. With this we have exhausted the agenda of the 37th session, I am concluding the work of the 37th session of the House of Representatives and before we move on to work after the 38th session of the House of Representatives, I am setting a 15-minute recess. Thank you very much. Sit down and finish work at 11:00.
