ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12134	Gentlemen, distinguished guests, I am opening the 35th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests of international NGOs, who follow the work of the House, have been called off at the session. I welcome all the guests and thank you for participating in today's 35th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, I also welcome the honourable majority and members of the Council of Ministers. I konstatirati that today's session is attended by 35 representatives, 23 from the Federation, 12 from Republika Srpska. It means we have a quorum that we can measure our decision. I have so far only the announcement of the absence by Mr Ibrahim Đedović, who for health reasons justified today's absence. Here, now from Mr. Belkić, head of the party club for BiH, we get information that it is also about Mr. Duraković. Ladies and gentlemen, these are excuses for the absences today. Now we're having a debate on the agenda. We've got the agenda. We had an extended college just before the session. You've all seen that it's one, really, demanding, large, complex agenda, which will require maximum concentration and respect for all of us throughout the session. It was not at the extended college of requests for additions to the agenda and the position of the College and the Extended College, so that it remains, that I call the debate on the agenda. If no one answers, I thank you. And then I can conclude that the 35th session of the House of Representatives has the next agenda. Journal of the 33rd session of the House of Representatives, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a framework law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Novaković for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Public Television System and the Public Television Service, Momčilo to Article 104 of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Public Television System Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of MP Tihomir Gligorić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act in BiH institutions, in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, 7. Imposed Law on State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering (second reading) 9. Proposal for a Framework Law on Stocks (first reading), 10. Proposal for a law establishing a Power Transfer Company (first reading), 2 11. Proposal for a law establishing an independent system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12. Discussing the motion for a vote to vote on non-confidentiality of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, 13. Appointment of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions Commission, 14. Proposal for a Resolution on the recognition of the status and rights of national minorities of former SFRY citizens in the Republic of Slovenia (proposer of Sead Avdić) 15. Proposal for a Resolution on the provisional moratorium on Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House (proposer of Representative Nenad Mišić), 16. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the importance of public documents, 17. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH, 18. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the state of human rights in the Arizona 19 Market. Resolution and appointment of the Committee of Representatives' House, 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The first amendment, the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (b) the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments, (c) the Agreement on Scientific Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, (d) the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. So that would be today's agenda. We're going to work on our adopted agenda. Ad.1. The register from the 33rd session of the House of Representatives you received. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Thank you. Can we make a statement on the minutes of the 33rd session? Please vote now. Thank you very much. I agree that, unanimously with 39 votes, we adopted the minutes from the 33rd session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. Ad.2. Representatives' questions and answers In the meantime since the session, when we had parliamentary issues, it is the last session to date, we have received answers to Mr Ivo Mire Jović's writings, set at the 31st session of the Federation of BiH's Prosecutors' Office and the Council of Ministers' Council. We also received a letter from the BiH Constitutional Court reporting that they received a letter on parliamentary issues from Mr Ivo Mire Jović, also posted at the 31st session, which reports that they are not covered by Article 218. The Rules of Procedure consider that they are not obliged to answer the parliamentary question. Here, that's what we have in college and as far as the answer is concerned, what the MPs were looking for. Does Mr. Jović or any of the other MPs who asked for answers to the parliamentary questions want to comment? Mr. Jović. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12135	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable fellow MPs and guests, I don't know if I'm a prosecutor when I ask a question or when I get answers. This is the grief of this country and we have people in the institutions of the Authority, that we have people who act in government institutions in a way that I get answers from the chief inspectors of the police or God Bog the prosecutor and the poor one they'd sue. My question was. Will it return to the Federation's budget stolen a million marks, which were given and distributed by the hoistuplers, who, of course, found the killer for Minister Leotar, and did everything agree? You gentlemen had a chance to read the answer, and he voted on occasion from the Chief Inspector, I just don't know what he's an inspector for, that, note that the Prime Minister of the Federation has publicly promised a reward to whoever provides the information that will lead to the prosecution of the perpetrators of that terrorist act. And, as we know, the indictment was raised, it was a political process, it was over, the money wasn't returned, and he said it was the president, or Prime Minister, who promised, the money was paid, and there was nothing to talk about, and I was just shocked, so I spilled a little water, and now I get an answer from someone called Branko Šljivar, the chief cantonal prosecutor and he's from an opportunity of writing. As for the second part of the question, which concerns the determination of facts and circumstances under which the Prime Minister, Jozo Leotar, was deprived of life’s critical events. I do, and I mean, now I know who ordered it and who killed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12136	I thank Mr. Jović. Anyone else want to comment on the answers? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the second part of this agenda point. This is the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Who does? Does anyone want to ask questions today? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12137	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I may have been able to say this in the first part of this point what I'm going to say now. Namely, I want to ask the parliamentary questions that I have already asked and I have not received an answer and I ask them to send them back to the one I asked. So at the 11th session of 9.4.2003, I asked a question. When a fair fee will be made for the Srbin residents of the village in Glamoc municipality, on whose property was the Barbara polygon or the depositary of the Federation Army. 2. Is the SFOR exercise in the area used ammunition with the impoverished uranium? I asked the second question at the 20th session of 30.10.2003. When will the citizens of Serbian nationality, the owners of the facilities in Dobrinja I and Dobrinja IV get urban consent for the facilities for which they have received solutions to occupying the public surface? By whose decision, or decision, has 16 objects been dislocated against the agreement of all relevant representatives of the authorities? 4 At the 33rd session of 14.04.2004, I asked a question and asked again. Do the citizens of Petrova live in the municipality of Petrovo or in the municipality of Gracanica or in the municipality of Petrovo and in the municipality of Gracanica, or in the municipality of Petrovo through Gracanica? It is the municipality of Petrovo, which is located in RS, and where all the acts of the Election Commission are titled in the name of Gracanica – Petrovo, as well as documents issued, therefore, personal documents of the citizens. So I'm going to deliver these questions to the Service again, and I'm going to ask them for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12138	I thank Mr. Novaković. Who wants to move on? Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12139	I have one question, and that's it. Who determines non-working days in BiH institutions and employees, and in particular MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? I'm asking this because I didn't know I wasn't working yesterday. I mean, really, I'm working professionally in this parliamentary assembly and I should be informed of that, that yesterday was a day off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12140	I thank Mr. Zorić. Anybody else want some? Mr. Petar Kunić, so Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12141	... asked on two occasions, in three, on four occasions one question concerning the social security of a particular category of people I never received a concrete answer. So, I got some answer, which, I don't know what's similar. But now I'm going to ask you a question about the Council of Ministers. It was noted that the Council of Ministers adopted a regulation on the control and quality of liquid fuel. This Regulation shall not apply. I ask the question, why does the regulation not apply and why is it obstructed for what reasons? Secondly, when the Council of Ministers will regulate imports of surrogates of oil, vaspirite, base oils, pretrolea, various diluters, etc.? We are witnessing the abuse of these surrogates and the disorderly situation in the oil derivatives market, including certain criminal activities, avoiding paying certain taxes to the state. Will the Council of Ministers take this matter more seriously? And this is a very, very serious thing. When will the Council of Ministers eliminate the regulations on inter-entity transport, which are also one of the reasons why they create conditions for these malversions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12142	I thank Mr. Kunić. Mr. Adem Huskić came forward for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12143	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, from about a year ago, we received information one, one review of the laws actually passed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. What I'm about to say is not a question, but more suggestions, but I think it can pass in this point, means that we are being re-delivered to information on the adopted laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the last year, according to the Council of Ministers' ministries, that we have one proposal to see which ministry is doing what who did it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12144	I thank Mr. Huskić. Anyone else want to ask a question? He doesn't want to. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12145	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not ask the question, but I will launch the initiative. The issue concerns, i.e. the initiative concerns BiH's membership in IOEM, the Brussels Regional Office of IOM, with its headquarters in Brussels. I want to launch an initiative for full BiH membership in this international organisation with an explanation. There are currently several projects in the process of realising the international organisation in BiH, which concern the retraining of demobilised military personnel, the training of the state border service, the return of refugees and the return of displaced persons to the country. The largest activity lately, this international organisation is focusing on... one of the topics, which is very aual in Europe and our country as it is known, is located in one of the first places, as an acute problem of how to stop transport and human trafficking, as well as the space of high migration... of its own population in BiH. The justification for full membership status is that with such status we directly participate in the selection of regional coordinators, i.e. the insistence that IOM Sarajevo become an independent regional office with its own projects and with the self-orientation and control of the funds spent on it. Furthermore, the employment of domestic labour at different levels from expert to technical and delegation of our experts to different areas in the world where IOM implements its projects. I would particularly like to emphasise the possibility that BiH will apply with great opportunity to realise the project, to be the headquarters of the international regional education centre at the postgraduate level, but the prerequisite for this is to be a member, a full member of IOM. And with this, I am launching the initiative and also asking the Council of Ministers to take all necessary actions as soon as possible to become a full member of IOM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12146	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. There were no more applications. Mr. Živković, please sign up so we can plan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12147	I'd like to ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs the question of the chairman. With the implementation of the CIPS project delayed in some parts of BiH, a large number of our citizens have not received documents, and deadlines for the completion of the project have already come. Will those deadlines extend? And, under b) Will traffic permits be given soon? 6
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12148	I thank Mr. Živković. Next up, Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. It's a mistake. We don't have any more applications right now. I'm closing this agenda. I thank the MPs and we move on to the point of today's 3rd agenda. Ad.3. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, first reading To remind you of the Law Proposal was submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly on 24 March 2004 with a request for a procedure in accordance with Article 104. We approved this procedure at a session of 31.03. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has declared itself constitutional-legislative, and the Constitutional and Legal Commission has also been designated as the competent committee to consider the proposal for this law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission as the competent commission discussed the proposal for a framework law on higher education at a session of 30 last month. You've received a report from the competent commission, as well as a renewed adjectives. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mr. Safet Halilović, Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications at the Council of Ministers. Here you go. Civilian, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12149	President-in-Office of the House, honourable Members, I would like to ask you for an understanding, for a more detailed statement on this law, because it is a complex matter, and I will try to be as precise as possible. In fact, the adoption of the BiH Framework Law on Higher Education is one of the promises made to the Peace Implementation Council in BiH as early as 2002. The reform in the area of higher education is also necessary in order to bring higher education into line with the joint declaration by European Education Ministers since 1999, more specifically under the name of the Bologna Declaration. It should be noted that BiH was admitted in a ministerial meeting in Berlin in September 2003, along with Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania to the Bologna process of establishing a European higher education area, requiring the introduction of established principles in the area. Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications, which relate to higher education in the European region, so-called The Lisbon Convention since April '97. and this law enforces the obligations undertaken... by this Convention. The adoption of the law is also conditioned by giving the World Bank a $42m loan, of which 12 million is under the education reconstruction project. The requirement is to be adopted by 7 May 2004 at the latest, and not to adopt this law means that BiH has lost a very favourable IDA credit reserved for countries out of conflict. This is also the last such loan for BiH. The basic principles, based on the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, were kept in international documents, which were adopted and signed by BiH, which are the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Council of Europe Convention, UNESCO recognition of qualifications on higher education in the European region, the Bologna Grand Charter to the universities of the MAGNA Card of '88, the Joint Declaration on Harmonization of the Construction of the European Higher Education System of Sorbon '98, the Joint Declaration of European Education Ministers, the Bologna Declaration of '99. The Convention on Higher Education of Salamanca in 2001. 7 It can be concluded that the Framework Law also includes basic principles in the area of higher education, which have been established or established in the European area of higher education. Starting with universal principles, non-discrimination and education rights, the law regulates the principles of university autonomy, integrated university, student mobility and other academic staff, the establishment of a national information centre and others. Respected representatives, the Framework Law, in addition to the principles of organising higher education in BiH, determines the responsibility of the authorities in this area, establish law enforcement bodies and international obligations as defined in Article 3. It is true which terms are set out in the law. It is important to note that Article 5 determines that higher education means which one is leading a) degree of the first cycle, b) degree of the second cycle, c) degree of the third cycle. In this way, principles are introduced in the area of higher education, which is set for the European space of higher education and means acceptance of a system based on two main cycles to graduate and postgraduate. The undergraduate degree is based on at least three years of study and is considered to be the necessary level of qualification on the European labour market. The postgraduate degree leads to the master’s degree of doctorate. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides that no one can be deprived of the right to education, and it can be said that Article 6 of the Law has been established, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14. European Conventions. Access to higher education is possible after finishing high school for at least four years. Higher education institutions are universities or colleges or higher schools, and Article 9 of the Law provides the definition of universities and colleges, i.e. high schools. Higher education can deal with any licensed higher education institution, with the law allowing tuition and other fees incurred by students. Institutional autonomy and legal subjectivity of higher education institutions, Articles 13 to 20, determines that legal entity holders are only universities and colleges. A transitional period until 2006, when only universities will have full legal subjectivity. The institution of formal responsibility within the university is the board of directors of the university, whose composition is determined by the statutes of the university. Higher education institutions enjoy freedom of teaching and learning research without interference from the authorities. Higher education facilities are injureable, so without the approval of university or college directors, police and other law enforcement authorities have no access to university or college. A special status, given to higher education institutions, is required to perform each higher education constitutional function in a way that shows responsibility to the state, citizens, staff and students. The rights and obligations of academic staff determine that academic staff enjoys freedom within the law, determines the right to publish the results of research work, regulate the employment of academic staff at higher education institutions, regulate the rights of students to attend all lectures and seminars and other forms of teaching, the right to participate in elections for student posts in student representative bodies, the right to recognise and transfer points. Students have the freedom to examine and test acquired knowledge, freedom of speech, organisation of gathering, the right to fair and impartial mechanisms to resolve disciplinary issues, the statute of a higher education institution envisions the establishment of a student representative body. As the responsibility of the competent state authorities for implementing this law is predicted, the question is? 8 The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is in charge of implementing the Framework Law on Higher Education, Coordination and Development of Higher Education, promoting student mobility, promoting links between higher education institutions in BiH and higher education institutions in the world and others. The competent entity shall be responsible for taking decisions on the licensing and lending of a higher education institution, on the basis of specific criteria and recommendations of the Council for the financing of higher education and the CIPOK Committee, and then giving consent to the statutes of the higher education institution, the establishment of the lowest schooling etc. Article 7 regulates issues relating to the Co-ordination Committee on Higher Education as an advisory body for higher education. The High Education Finance Council is being educated by a special decision by the BiH Council of Ministers. The Council shall consist of ten members on a parity basis. The High Education Funding Council is a state-level body that balances the criteria for funding higher education, making recommendations on minimum scholarships, defining the criteria for establishing mergers and closing higher education institutions. The higher education fund, it's being established in entities. The entity's law lays down the way in which the fund, administrative and management structure of the fund is established, and other necessary conditions for working and decision-making. The Fund shall be responsible for preparing annual requests for the financing of higher education and operational costs of the Fund. However, when funds are allocated to a higher education institution, the board of directors of a higher education institution has full discretion in relation to the distribution of funds within the institution. The Convention on the Recognition of the Qualification of Higher Education has established in the European region the establishment of the Committees of the Convention and the National Regulatory Centre for Control, Promotion and Facilitation of Concentration Implementation. Also, according to the convention, the state centre must be financed by a dwarve. And, if it is an independent administrative organisation, due to the specificity of the obligations to be imposed before the CIPOK, this law has established that the vijećeć of Ministers appoints a committee to run the CIPOK. The CIPOK is responsible for the format and general content of the diploma, as well as for the addition of a diploma, which issues accredited higher education institutions, including a description of the higher education system, establishes and publishes standards setting minimum standards for academic staff, facilities, opium, library. CIPOK through the international network of information centres ENIK ERIK Network provides information and recommendations to higher education institutions related to foreign higher education institutions and programmes, and presents BiH with the international network of centres and others. On accreditation and licensing of higher education institutions, the competent entity shall decide, on the basis of the conditions and recommendations laid down by the CIPOK Committee. All higher education institutions may apply for accreditation to the competent entity's head, in accordance with the law. The existing universities in BiH, at the moment of entry into force of this law, will be considered accredited and must appear for an audit of accreditation within four years of the date of entry into force of this law. Periodic review and evaluation of the quality of teaching subjects and programmes of accredited higher education institutions shall be carried out under the supervision of the CIPOK. An accredited higher education institution is authorised to grant academic degrees and diplomas listed in its convinced accreditation. The competent state authorities and other BiH authorities and organisations will recognise only those academic degrees and diplomas issued by 9 accredited higher education institutions for employment or public functions. The degrees and diplomas of the current university graduates, i.e. higher education institutions in BiH and former SFRY Yugoslavia, are considered recognised in this regard. In the final provisions, it has been established that the CIPOK recommendation will provide for the duration of the first cycle and transitional provisions for the period 2004 to 2010. All entity and other relevant regulations will be in line with the provisions of this law no later than six months after its entry into force with the exception of provisions relating to the structure of academic programmes, degrees and accumulation and transfer of credit points subject to the transitional period. The provisions of this law, which require the award of power for a certain function in higher education in entities, will be applied when legal conditions are created for those allocations. Let me refer very briefly to the requirements highlighted in the amendment procedure. The requirement to regulate higher education at the national level alone was one of such amendments, i.e. the requirements. I personally don't mind if there is an agreement and if all the necessary assumptions are solved at an expensive level, but it is not possible to address the issue of higher education only at the state level without offering a solution to the financing of higher education at the state level. Therefore, amendments requiring the regulation of higher education only at the state level did not offer at the same time a way in which higher education would be financed. I'd like to remind you of the very negative experience we had last year when the government-level demining service was united, and at the same time the funding issue was not resolved. We were in a blockade from which we were getting out of the loan from the donor board. It was just a sum of three million KM. Higher education costs 100 million KM and cannot improvise funding. On the other hand, leaving funding and regulation of higher education at cantonal level does not allow for real reform of higher education and compliance with the World Bank's conditions. It must be noted that there were also proposals for minimum regulation of higher education at the state level in the law-making phase, and when it is looked at what is being established and what is regulated at the state level, it cannot be sufficiently unsatisfactory. This law is a major step forward for BiH, for over a hundred thousand students, for the academic community and, of course, represents a possible compromise. Dear MPs, let me finally point out that the establishment of a European higher education space will go its own way, whether or not BiH participates in this. We are late and we are on the verge of many progressive processes in education. The adoption of the law will benefit most from generations now studying and, of course, future generations. Europe and the world do not insist on the same path in the field of education for all countries, but have established principles for all. It is up to you gentlemen to allow our universities, our higher education, to have a chance in the unique space of higher education, which is just being created. The Bologne processes in Europe are half the transition period and the results will be summed up next year. We are, perhaps, if you adopt this law at the beginning of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12150	I thank Mr. Halilović, Minister of Civil Affairs for this introduction. Before I open the hearing, Mr. Mirsad will Ćeman on behalf of the committee in charge. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12151	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, you have received a report in writing from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as the committee responsible. I felt the need only so much that before you as MPs took the floor, that is to say, we as MPs take the floor and discuss this bill to say that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has put one, in my court at least a significant effort to consider with due attention a large number of amendments. As you have seen in the report a total of 68 of which some are identical or similar, but through all of them, so to say, with due attention, again, I say by my conviction as President of the Commission, the chairman of the Commission, we have tried in an atmosphere that would mean an atmosphere of understanding and respect to get into the intentions and aspirations and respect, therefore, all that well in all of this and agree finally on a solution, such as, you will recall, something similar has been done when it comes to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. I have to say, it's in the ossal and the reports that we failed this time, to say, in this way to bring the procedure to an end, but it seems to me that I can say on behalf of the Commission that, if the niche was correct, we were treating all proposals, reviews, opinions, etc. and we all had the opportunity to present our opinions to the Commission, to give an argument for possible solutions, proposals, etc. The result of the debate on the Commission is what you received through the report. I hope that the atmosphere and debate in this home will in some way be in that direction to correctly express what we as MPs think about this issue, but that we will, however, find the strength to say and adopt this bill. I'm speaking on behalf of this case, so I must say the majority mood in the Commission. The procedure was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and as such it was brought to an end. Therefore, what is the result of the debate on the Commission is, what we could come up with, which is certainly through amendments, which have not been through, which have not received most, there may be certain good ideas, for which today may not be the time, but perhaps tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but that is now a matter of understanding of all these processes, which are ahead of us and who we are participants and ending this on behalf of the Commission, therefore, we invite you to assess and accept that the Commission has made an effort, which is significant, and the final result is, however, on this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12152	I thank Mr. Ćeman. I have the first Mr. Jozo Križanović since I was registered, so it wasn't the application. Please take care of the technique in front of you, because I have Mr. Križanović recorded as the first, and now it's the next order. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, let Mr Nikola Špirić be prepared, then Mr Sead Avdić. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12153	Thank you, Mr. President, we have heard the responsible ministry and its minister, who had to say today on the subject of the principles that have led to the drafting of such a bill. He tried to say it was a modern, modern and European law, and I will probably disappoint him that he is truly retrograde and anti-European. The reminders are made in the draft law, none of the representatives of the Croatian people participated. The basis of principle in Europe is equality. The second principle is respect for the constitution, and 11 of this law is against the constitution, and this is what I find in Article 2(3). The Constitution, where human rights and fundamental freedoms are taxed, whose enjoyment is guaranteed in accordance with the European Convention, referred to in Article 2(2) and referred to in Article 2(3). These provisions aim to point out the country and society's commitment to respecting the highest standards in the domain of human rights and have the character of exclusively declarative provisions that the legislator must adhere to in the legislative regulation of this matter, which means that this provision of the Constitution of BiH is by no means determining in terms of jurisdiction for the regulation of the matter of higher education and cannot be a constitutional basis from which the proposing draws the basis for the adoption of such a bill. However, the competence of BiH institutions is governed by Article 3. The BiH Constitution, and in this article, education is not mentioned as the responsibility of BiH institutions. I would also like to say that Article 3(3)a. The BiH Constitution, regulated that all government functions and authorities, which under the Constitution are not explicitly assigned to BiH institutions belong to entities, which, by right, can be applied to legislative powers by legal analogy. Finally, the provisions of the Constitution of the Federation of BiH regulate the division of powers between the Federation of BiH, which regulate the division of powers between the Federation and the counties of Article 4.b. The legislative arrangement of all levels of education is left to the county, and as we heard and saw the word county or canton in this law does not exist. Also in his address today, the minister said one of the principles, in the final provisions, would bring the current documentation at entity level into line with this law. I call for him or someone in this country to say who knows that there exists at Federation level any law or document that would talk about education in general in a special way about higher education. And then I don't know what it's going to be harmonized with. I would also like to say that when it comes to mobility to create three systems based on this law, Article 58 leaves the right of the Brcko District to regulate higher education, to arrange education and such a proposal for nebulosis to be regulated by the Federation, and we want high education modernly, in line with Evropa, in accordance with the Bologna, Lisbon, Berlin agreements, etc., we create three systems in the state, and we are going to Europe and I cannot possibly understand that it can exist as a principle. Here I feel, and I will publicly say one unprincipled coalition, which has been tasked instead of saying so far that segregation is being done in this country, it's a crime called assimilation. For these reasons, these solutions that we have here in front of us, no matter what means. Here we listened to 62 million for this pay phone, so it fell to 42 million, then to 30, then to 18, then to 12, so it's coming back, and so on. And here are the representatives of the World Bank, let them say if I'm wrong. It is 12 million total for education, among which is high, and 30 is for the economy, and they only condition one law that is passed, why not say to the harm of one people and so dear gentlemen I would also like to inform you, here is a document signed by five Prime Ministers and before the Ministers of Education of the County in BiH, in the Federation and they say, I will quote. "In view of the importance of education, its role in a multi-national state, it is necessary to respect the principles and equality of constitutive peoples and the official language, and the equality of civil rights of all citizens of BiH, so we encourage the implementation of reform of education, the introduction of equal standards of quality and criteria of education in BiH, and to ensure that these standards are equal and consistent with standards in European countries. As existing legislative solutions in higher education, in a sense, slow down the implementation of higher education reform, it is necessary for the counties to adopt a new high 12 education law in haste, which will allow the implementation of provisions of the Bologna and other declarations, as neither the Bologna, the lisabonski and the Berlia Agreement, nor the taking over of our obligations with the Council of Europe, and should it not be stressed that high education is not the subject of those 16 of our obligations, does not speak anywhere and does not prevent the structure of law-making in one country. It is important that education standards are at European level and these are two pairs of dangers. Therefore, the distinguished gentlemen say they are explicitly opposed to the proposal to decide on higher education at entity level, because this is a solution in the direct opposite of what I said. The mobility and passability of students cannot be achieved if there is a parcelled territory in BiH. 71 thousand people live in the Brcko District. The reminders work, in Europe the standard is 500 thousand people a university. What rights, obligations are legally spoken of here, that the Brcko District has the right to have a university, because it says there has been a resolution of the law and it is not up to the promoter to write it down. It also writes that in our interventions so far, as soon as the light of day has seen the law in the Council of Ministers, I should also say that the Hrvat are voted 5 to 4. And what did we get? We got that the answer was, you know, it won't be accepted by Srbin and it's publicly said to the media. And then we'll take power from the county and transfer it to the Federation entity. How? Well, that's nice. We will not respect the will of the fewest. And, uh, nice sieve of wolf and they're not here yet. Why? The Brcko District is respected, the RS is respected, and only the counties are respected. And he says a compromise was made. What compromise was it today by the minister? Not at all. It was only a shame and a pity. I repeat, no one here is smart enough to oppose the application of high standards and principles of Europeans in higher education. One who thinks was honest, well-intentioned, and I'll put myself in it because I've been raising young children for 30 years. I want this country to just be in line with the European standard, and this is not a European standard, gentlemen, not on any element. The chairman of the Constitutional Commission informed you that there was a very correct debate. Yes, it is. There was also an unprincipled coalition. Did it bother at least one amendment like that? which is that the word "jointing" is changed to the word "status change", and it is not, because it was suggested by Jović that it could not pass. When we proposed to the CIPOK, which here is said to have nine people on a parity basis, it is, and how it decides. We asked it to be a consensus and it couldn't pass. As the Constitutional Commission worked, of the 20 amendments I made, they were all 4 to 2. And there were three people, two at a time, and I think you assume that someone voted. On the Council of Ministers, on the Constitutional Commission, and I know what's going to happen here. Those who swear to BiH should recognize themselves if they are ever to raise their hand for such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12154	I thank Mr. Jović. For the replica of Mrs Palavrić, please within the Rules of Procedure, and then it will be discussed by Mr Špirić. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12155	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think that in everyone in this room, the position of the Party of Democratic Action and its desire for such a zoo to exist at the state level, and we would be most fortunate if BiH fulfilled its obligation, as promised to the Peace Implementation Council, and I don't think that this is an unsettled problem, and when it comes to funding, because whoever today invests in financing a higher education investment, will transfer those funds to the state tomorrow. However, we are, indeed, in an awkward situation when we need to pass a law, which, however much we criticise it, is a step forward for those to whom it applies. On the other hand, it is the obligation of BiH, and I believe that these are two strong reasons for the law to be passed. 13 In my best wish to understand the bitterness of Mr Mire Jović, I would like to explain to us, if he would explain to his colleagues what he means by the non-discipline coalition in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and in particular to explain to us what provisions of the bill, the Framework Law on Higher Education are to the detriment of a nation and how much I recognise the harm of the Croatian people. I would really like you to present it to us and to understand, to understand you, so why do you feel threatened by this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12156	Mrs. Palavrić, this was more of a discussion, and less of a replica, I suggest that we discuss these issues through discussion that we do not kidnap. No problem, I respect what Mrs. Palavrić said, we'll move on in a row. Mr. Špirić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12157	Mr. Chairman, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I think that education reform is perhaps the most important segment of BiH reform. You know that we have also had heated debates when there was a reform of primary and secondary education or what can be looked forward to is that these reforms of primary and secondary education from day to day give increasing results and that there is no expected resistance to the implementation of this reform, as announced. I think it's very important for the citizens of BiH. I highly appreciate the effort that has been made to draft this framework law on higher education, knowing that it is not easy to get in BiH to text, which can be an absolute compromise to come to a law, which nobody will have a single remark on. In that sense, I think that the effort that has been put into the creation of this framework law has been made in a way that we can come up with a legal project that will be of interest to the young population in BiH, for which, here we all are when we speak in advocating ourselves. I hope that we will provide them with the conditions to study really with European principles and European standards, that they will get diplomas that will be valid throughout Europe, and in that sense I want to say that the principles of law that are laid down in international documents, then the principle of non-discrimination and the right to education of high autonomy of the university, the way of funding of the university, the responsibility of the authorities versus what the university is, but also the mobility of students are essential principles, but I would like to warn you that today one of the Members conducts an analysis of how many students study from different entities, cantons and counties elsewhere. You would come up with data that warns MEPs that the reform of higher education is imminent. There is no greater discrimination than to force a student, say from Lukavica to go to Sokolac to pay a price of 200 marks for transport, not to be discriminated against by it. So here's the economic ra... he talked, and I'm not banning it, it would really be stupid if we were simply to have any kind of discrimination when it comes to education. In that sense, I would like to say that I will personally and the SNSD will seek to come to a good law and support the framework proposal of this law at an expensive level, by praying that I really don't think that the reform was implemented when the law was passed, but that we would really try to reach the law, which would simply mean a reform that involves building institutions in the sphere of higher education, not a reform that would mean political privatisation of institutions. In that sense, we were prepared, so we ask for understanding and if that is not a condition. We will work to get to the framework law, so that in transitional at least the provisions are defined that the rectors who have been elected two or more consecutively, so, two or more times consecutively, they can't compete at the first competition in accordance with this law, because it's about people who have mutilated universities and I don't think we're going to do anything, why there are no, why reforms don't give essential results, not just in the field of education, because you have people who are 15 years old at the head of institutions, these are privatised institutions. 14 It is of no importance, therefore, which policy option it is from. And, in that sense, we pray for understanding, does not change the essence of the law, does not change the essence of the law, but gives passivity really to a modern reform of education. I'll tell you that there are structures at universities that are cleaned absolutely. I doubt they're ready to implement reforms when we talk about non-discrimination, and here I'll say that there are a lot of students, say, here are the entities from the RS who are studying in Sarajevo today, because they're cheaper or because they're closer to them, or because they appreciate that there's a better programme, as there are students from the Federation of BiH, who, say, study in Banja Luka, because they're closer, cheaper, more favourable, they appreciate that this program is adapted to what they want to achieve... higher education and, of course, if possible, we're talking about amendments that are a condition for accepting or refusing laws, but it seems to me that we've done, take and do just an analysis. There are reactors that are five or more times reactors. I doubt they're ready to work on this reform. So five or more times. Also formed are university advices that are ready to choose only those rectors and we will not achieve reform believe. It's not everywhere, it's not the same practice in BiH, but I'm saying that we need to step up here, if we want to get to a good law and there is, of course, a drill, I've talked to colleagues from different universities in BiH when it comes to scientific and research work. dakel, I don't mind staying like this, keeping some of the financial subjectivity in colleges that have research centres, for part of the research work that doesn't go from budget to budget at any level, for the sake of transparency and efficiency, because, otherwise, it is in BiH while reforms of the three procedures are in place. So, it's not a condition, but it would be good to consider this proposal he was coming from Sarajevo both from Tuzla and Banja Luka, therefore, from colleagues who are involved in scientific and research work. So, please, if there is an understanding that both of these two principles are being incorporated, and in particular this first principle that I was talking about that rectors who have been elected two or more times consecutively cannot compete in accordance with the law at the first rector selection contest, with the task of implementing a reform of higher education. Thank you very much, even in the end, to work on creating an atmosphere, at least as far as the SNSD Club is concerned about getting to the state-level framework law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12158	I thank Mr. Špirić. Before Mr. Avdić, I will give the word to Minister Halilović. He asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12159	I apologize if this is considered a replica, but actually I'd just like to make one point. Namely, representatives of the Council of Europe, the European Union, the OHR, the OSCE, the World Bank have sent one document to Mr. Terzić, Čolak, Ivanić, Hadžipašić and Mr. Mikerević, where they say among other things. I won't be long just two attitudes. We are pleased to announce our support to the State Council of Ministers on the draft State Framework Law on Higher Education, which has been prepared by the Council of Europe and the State Ministry of Civil Affairs. We urge you to pass the law to the State Parlamett for consideration as soon as possible. The attached draft law is fully in line with the promises made to the Peace Implementation Council in 2002 and with a recently finalised medium-term development strategy. These documents obligate BiH to a number of political institutional, financial reforms, aimed at improving quality and recognised by higher education in BiH, as well as more effective equal use of insufficient public funding. The draft law has been examined intensively by officials from the higher education and international community. He represents, in our opinion, the best law that is in agreement with the programme of reforms the BiH government has committed to. 15 I'm just saying that in the drafting of a law that lasted almost a year there were representatives of all universities: Mostar, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, representatives of the education ministry from both entities, all cantonal ministries, there were several versions, even four versions of the law, until it was definitely in the Council of Europe, so of all the representatives I mentioned, along with representatives of the international community, established this text of the law to the last letter. Therefore, there was no discrimination or exclusion of anyone in the making of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12160	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12161	All that would be good if I didn't have Mr. Minister's document in front of me, which you sent to OHR, from a meeting of you and the entity ministers in Banja Luka. I think everyone in the hall knows who was sitting at that meeting in Banja Luka, if the entity ministers were sitting, and I would just point out on this occasion that no Hrvat of 50 people sit in the federal ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12162	Thank you, Mr. Jović. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12163	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman-in-Office, respected members of the Council of Ministers, should be encouraged to look at this document before us today because it is the first law in the reform laws, which, practically, implements and coordinates one activity in BiH and the European Community criteria, is the first law, objectively in BiH according to the European Community criteria. This is the first law objectively which sets out simple and accepts criteria in the field of higher education, the criteria of the European Community, meaning the Bologna Convention and the Lisbon Declaration, and in this context these two documents are objectively quite stubborn facts, which must be respected and which is integrated in this framework law on higher education, which means that it would not be easy to accept criticism that this is a failed document and a document that represents a step back, uniformly in reform in BiH, especially in the reform of higher education, which is necessary and necessary, and in this context we all agree. It also encourages the high degree of consensus reached before the coming of this law to the BiH Parliament, and that means universities and student associations and, simply, part of a public debate, which is, discussed about this law, agreeing to be passed in this form, which does not mean that this law cannot be subjected... simply and very much to perceive what may be a problem in the functioning and application of this law further in practice. I will only look at a few details, which have been stuck with me for about a month and more, and that means, above all, the institution of the rector, which is simply responsible for the quality and all that is going on in one university institution, that is, in one higher education institution and institution, and that rector is elected by the Senate of the university, or the Senate of the higher education institution, and says Article 1st, Article 13, holder of formal responsibility for all activities and licensed public institutions, is the board of directors of the university, or college, and the rector is simply the Senate and the rector is responsible to the Senate, and is responsible to the board of directors, and the board responsible for the quality of the teaching process and everything that happens at the university, which is contrary to our solutions. I think that this is not a provision of the Bologna Declaration, it certainly is not, 16 I am convinced of it and in this context it would be instructed that the advice, or the Senate of the university, confirms the rector, and that it is chosen by the board of directors of the higher education institution, i.e. the institution, is confirmed by the selection of college directors, and in this context it could, and in my opinion, be agreed. Given the situation in universities, as counterpart Špirić points out with full law, objectively this would be necessary, maximum democratisation of the choice of rectors of the university. Given the full autonomy of the university and the higher education institutions in this context, be careful with the aspect of full democratisation of the rector's election, where, simply, the Senate consisting of members of the university, i.e. teachers, assistants, etc. objectively sometimes possible that it can be volunteered or simply sent to vote for one person or simply extend to the unconsciousness of the rector's mandate, which is not good, especially for reforming higher education in BiH. That's one thing. So this Article 13, you should simply examine and see with a lot of consideration how to maximise and make a transparent choice of rectors. That's one thing. Secondly, you can't see colleges here from this law, you can't see, simply a structure, one pyramid of a university university and, as they say, colleges become organisational units, they're not formal-legal entities, and they're simply an integral part of a university without legal subjectivity. That's good. At the very least, it's not a problem, but the problem is that maximum centralised goes to the heart of the democratisation of the universe, it goes to the heart of decentralisation of decision-making by colleges. How can a rector be responsible for my work on a single fax in one of the departments, etc. Which means it would be good from that aspect of the law anywhere mentions the university's primary unit, an organisational unit of a higher school institution like the university. There's no dean position and there's a simple college decision-making power within a simple university, according to this framework law on higher education. What do I mean? I want to say that we are not critical, not critically conveying the experience of illustration for the City to university from London to the Bosnian Herzegovician opportunities and conditions is good, but not critically conveying it is missed, and perhaps too simply free, which means that the tradition of these spaces must be respected and, simply, the physopathology of the functioning of the university today in BiH a system of higher education, and also, not to say the geopolitical position of this country, etc., but, which means that there is a happy symbiosis to be found for the distribution of powers on the route of the university – colleges, university-university, otherwise it will not be able to function people, which means here in this law there is no organisational unit, which is positioned. There's no college and their powers, so there's no connection to the university's management. This is the principal of the university. This is the vice president of the university. So we need to take this into account from the point of view of the full centralization of decision-making and the leadership of the university by the rector. There's no messenger here by the Rector of one person, there's no predictor here, there's no predictor. Which means I'm asking the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, if it's in any way possible to look at these simple suggestions, useful suggestions, and to simply optimise the distribution of powers. I repeat again, without the extra centralization of the university or the location of all the powers and powers in the hands of one man, in the hands of one man, I repeat once again. A rector who also cheers and dresses, who gives, simply hires people who organizes competitions and every job. In that context, it's just my thinking. I have read this law with great respect, studied it well, I think that it should be adopted today in the first reading, and if it has power, I would suggest to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communication can still intervene on this text, according to this, simply useful suggestions, really from today's meeting of the House of Representatives. So, I fully support the adoption of the Framework Law on Higher Education with my note at the end, this is people's House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, this is not the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament. Where the House of Peoples protects vital national interests and we give, we simply transfer that discussion to where it should be located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12164	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Vinko Zorić, the wrong quote. So, after Mr. Zorić, are you staying at the replica, Mr. Jović? Replica Jović, goes Mr. Gligorić, so Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Novaković, Raguž, then Mr. Felić, then Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Bešlagić. That would be redislided.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12165	I don't think it's a good idea for your debate on one of these very important laws, Mr. Avdić, to end up like this. First, if you ask what the correction is, I can fix whatever I want, here, I can do this, it's not predstavnički, but representative, for example. But I also want to say what hurts me, which is that no one, nor Miri Jović, lets talk about both national matters and matters concerning a nation, especially the constituent people. So, this criticism that was directed at the end is addressed to me, and now I'm thinking after this announcement of the replica, the correction of the quote any way you want, I'm thinking that I'd come forward and do the right thing, and if I was going to keep this quiet and put up with it, because I've never felt as embarrassed as I did in these 14 years as today when I came to this session and this part of the agenda and God Bog I felt more ashamed than today. And I'm telling you dear colleagues and fellow MPs in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, if any of you felt like me today, I'd be very unhappy.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12166	I think this was a correct interpretation of the wrong, a correction of the wrong assumption, but if you insist, here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12167	In my discussion, I did not mention any MPs or any club, in that sense, I spoke in principle, and I think in this way privatising the opinion or simply interpreting it in a unique way is not ultimately desirable in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12168	Mr. Avdić, there was no privatisation of opinion. I'm a witness as president, which is exactly what you said. You said there was no place to discuss the national topics in this home, which Mr. Zorić warned you as the club chief and rightly warned you. Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Absolutely, because...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12169	I'd like that if I got the word. Allow me to speak to you, Mr. Avdić. You said today that a consensus has been reached among universities and I really want to confirm that fact, but there is also a university in this country, it has not been talked to, nor has a consensus been reached. I have a bunch of papers in front of me, from the student choir of that university, from the academic choir, from the rector, from the dean and the senate, etc. who oppose the early youth of this law with such solutions. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12170	Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12171	I would then ask the Minister of Civil Affairs and the Communication of the Council of Ministers to once again transfer to this meeting who has given consent to this text of the law to all of the higher education institutions, i.e. the university? I'm begging you. This is a very serious, simple observation by Mr. Jović, and in this context, do not be mistaken.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12172	I thank you, Mr. Halilović said, he spoke twice, now the debate, let the MPs say, Mr. Halilović can eventually turn around, that is, whenever he wants, but we do not have to react to any debate and statement. I'm asking you to respect yourself in this regard, pai if we're different. Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12173	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has worked a lot. Many were involved by commissions, so, phase so to, practically here is Parliament now. I worked hard on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I agree with those who said that a lot of energy and effort has been made to come up with a quality bill. At the same time, I want to say because of these replicas and false allegations that I have one understanding of what the representatives of the Croatian people here have said. Of course, we also have the fact that we have had plenty of time to express a different opinion in the procedure that has been made possible, even to the amendments that we have the opportunity to make and which have been put into this bill. Of course, I don't want to say that, no matter what others said, we had a lot to say in the procedure and they said that, that's what universities and colleges said, student associations. No Niko can, of course, dispute the right to the HDZ Club, too, at the assembly, when debated today, quite legitimately sets out its demands. I want to say about the principles, which in this law are acceptable and that they are acceptable and that they are in line with the standards and what Mr. Halilović was talking about, I fully agree with, as well as with the debaters that this is one of the most important laws in the area of reform, which our citizens, which is practically included both primary and secondary, and now high education, each one has the opportunity to see in their concrete life the advantage of these new laws. I wanted to say the most because of those who wrote, such as student associations, that as an MP I have an understanding for them and that they have come well and that they, indeed by this law expect that those discriminatory positions, which, objectively, in the present society, should be eliminated. But I have also opposed the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and today I am opposed to this House, when they write rectors or those who have contributed to the lack of reform in the current higher education system, as well as to ask MPs today to support this law. What I'm saying is that in one study, which was conducted, students were discriminated against by certain professors, who are also today or who think they are part of the reform, etc. Therefore, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry and all those who were in the executive authority would have to take account later when we passed the law on its implementation in meeting all the conditions, and that is why Dr Kunić and I, when it comes to the amendment of the SNSD on the choice of rectors, fully accept him and everything you said about the rector and the appointment of Professor Dr. Avdić, with whom I fully agree, in 19 total reforms we must have this amendment that will eliminate the monopoly that has been present so far. Naturally, among others, the other amendments that have been tabled, I don't think we'll be able to accept it except for this amendment by the SNSD, which treats the choice of rectors. And, of course, to try and end this, that first of all, the reforms that will be, when it comes to education, when it comes to literature according to the Bologna Declaration, we today simply have teachers who write books on 900 pages, who write books to their colleagues, who in the first year and second, absolutely don't understand, and that's why I think that the restriction as a number of pages, the number of hours, then the choices in the organs of students, is a reform to avoid a monopoly position, because I'm a professor myself, and I know how much a teacher can ruin a young person and, secondly, a thing. The second thing, when I'm talking, I'm talking about what our colleges are about, is, I'm not going to say now that 400 students are enrolled in the first year, and 4 or 5 come in the fourth year. If we want reforms, like in college in America, in colleges 80% is transitory. Well, aren't our kids dumber than American kids, so we only have four students in the fourth year? That's why I think that reform is necessary for them, and that teachers are objectively such an advanced relationship, because they think that these children are practically in front of judges, not in front of people who need to help them. That is why I believe that these reforms should be supported, and that is why I believe that, through the reform and implementation of these laws, we will be in a position today to equalise private colleges with state colleges, because in the authorities of the executive, first and foremost, inspectors and their ministers are campaigning against private colleges, because they want a monopoly of state colleges and they are afraid of competition and colleges of colleges or universities that will be on a private basis. Consciousness is very problematic with those who control today, such as certain ministries at entity level, colleges in meeting the conditions and the other one give them consent, register in court, threaten you tomorrow, forgive your ban. Eh, that's why this law on higher education will eliminate the laws of war, which we have at the entity level and that prevents progress and reform that we, hopefully today in the first reading and in a few days, will adopt and thus regulate that area, which, and how much, is opposed to some who write letters, in which they ask us to support it, and that in the meantime they are people who understand progress and progress, and many have strayed when it comes to the education system. Here, in this way, I would suggest that after the debate was held, we accept in the first reading, that we may agree on another reading, and that in this way we respect this deadline, I think on May 7th to ensure the conditions, above all what BiH needs to meet, because this is more important than the World Bank's loan, which is important, but it is certainly more important to meet the conditions that we need to meet as a general objective of all and the positions and opposition that we have agreed with our political statement and that in this way we also resolve this important law in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12174	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr. Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12175	Dear Presidency, I've spoken a lot about this law on the Constitutional Commission, but I feel the need to have some questions here potentiate. Clearly, for me, these amendments by Mr. Jović 20 and Mr. Raguž are unacceptable because they destroy the concept of the law. Accepting these amendments would mean that today this law cannot pass. So they go into essence and they're unacceptable to me. This SNSD amendment can be discussed and it is acceptable and it is even normal in some higher education laws. What don't I like about this law? So, the law is kind of acceptable, of course, because it's gone through a long-term debate through various commissions that have been formed, in collaboration with entities, this concept of law has been accepted by entities, as far as I think. The entity ministers gave their consent, or the Prime Ministers, and, if I have to say, I personally have reservations under this law. Why do I have reservations? I have reserves that collapse one tradition in this space, and that's a tradition of college. The university is a nuclearus in this space, a nuclearus of higher education. It is mentioned here as an organisational unit, so it comes down to one organisational unit, where the rector becomes an absolute ruler at the university. I think it's a centralised vision, a centralised vision that's not suitable for our spaces. Unfortunately, we still have a mental set of our people, who are overly subjective and are setting up first-row subjective relations with people and I'm afraid we're going to have a bad situation in individual colleges related to this case. The other thing is, this law doesn't stimulate school staff... it doesn't stimulate, because almost all things have been transferred to university. The university is an organisational unit of one exposition, which will be separated from the university, the issue of service and students is raised. So, in this respect, I think a big mistake has been made, which, unfortunately, I don't think a big mistake has been made, which, unfortunately, will not be corrected for long, because we know how we make decisions in this House, we find it very difficult to make decisions. It's very difficult to compromise. Here's an example. Slovenia accepted this concept of law, as we have, after three months they returned to colleges. So they restored the legal subjectivity to the university. In a conversation with a respected professor, therefore, with one respected professor, so the professor of a career in Ljubljana told me don't do anything stupid, we did it, so we went back in three months, because he says there was chaos at colleges, or at universities. You know how the Slovenac are pragmatic that react very quickly and they managed to restore it to their original position in three months. We won't be able to sum up how to make decisions. There are some questions that have been raised here, and I would like to sum up the theory of the right to try to give my opinion. It has been said that this law is not in line with the BiH Constitution, the Constitution, the canton constitutions, etc. It's not an entity-level education. And that is explicitly said, this is what Mr. Jović beautifully apostrophe and one key constitutional provision, which is that everything that is not explicitly stated in the BiH Constitution belongs to entities. But in this case, entity authorities have accepted one part of the business to transfer to joint institutions. The other thing Mr. Jović did, he initiated me to think about this issue and put it on everyone to try to think about where he said that education in the Federation is at canton level. Is it written in the Federation Constitution? I am now asking the question – whether the Federation should have brought its constitution into line with the BiH Constitution when the Constitution states that everything not mentioned in the BiH Constitution is taxing to entities, and possibly what cantonal authorities belong to entities. Don't laugh. Don't laugh. Try to think about these things a little bit. Enough moves, harmonisation of the Republika Srpska Constitution with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is a question that will certainly be raised in due course. I'm obliged to say some more facts as to what the students consider. Students of the University of Banja Luka believe that the subjectivity of the university should be maintained. So most of the university's 21st colleges believe it was necessary to maintain subjective colleges. And that by doing that, we will certainly lose in the organisational structure of the organization structure of the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12176	I'd like to thank Mr. President. I Kunić. Mr. Novaković has the word. Just give me a minute. There'll be a debate, Mr. Jović. You'll get your word. It's not a dispute, but I think you should give it a little bit. You'll get a chance to argue yet so we don't replicate every discussion. If you don't mind. If not, here's my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12177	Then it'll be groundless later. We are fortunate as Parliament to have so many people from scientific institutions sitting here. And he would ask them, "Did you and did you recognize the path of Bologna in which the college lost its legal subjectivity? A university, one of the universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is Tuzla, did a few years ago and a reputation with international factors, including those that made suggestions on this law that it is leading in this respect. Therefore, if we are talking today under this in our first reading of this law, then these are the principles and principles of the Bologna Process, and this discussion shows that it would deviate from this Bologna process if colleges retain subjectivity. I can personally adapt to Mr. Kunić's thinking, as I know both Austria and Finland have similar problems. But I cannot agree with this that the Law is extremely good, however, according to what happened in Slovenia, if we adopt it to chaos. Well, I don't know what he's good at if he's gonna cause chaos. You said what I thought, so I understood, so I apologize. I also want to blame the assumption that the ethnic authorities have agreed, that the entity authorities have not agreed because the Federation has no such authority, nor has anyone from the Federation entity level agreed except a minister who has no such ingenuity. If he agreed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12178	Thank you. Mr. Novaković has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first say that in Mr Jović's discussion, I have recognised many of my discussions so far in this House and many times in this very way I have tried to say that it is unacceptable to transfer jurisdiction from one institution to another institution. Unfortunately, I did not have the most common support for this Parliament in such tones and in such discussions, so that I would not convey this story to the concept of principled or non-principle coalitions. In fact, I represent certain interests here, and in this sense we are also committed to some projects depending on the realisation of these interests. And it really is neither, nor will it be in the interest of the club, and I also heard from colleagues from other RS colleagues that the powers of higher education are fully transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the opposite of our views, and it's not about any principled or unprincipled coalitions. What colleagues have said about the importance, I would not repeat whether it is significant or not, this reform is not important. We're not happy with what this law looks like either. Perhaps it could have been different, perhaps this reform could have met some of the requirements that were set before it. The entities may have been able to retain most of it, according to us and most of it, but it is obvious that a compromise between what needs to be transferred to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and what needs to be left at the level of the entities is sought here. I'm talking first of all about an entity that had those powers, so I'm talking about Republika Srpska. But we're also fully aware that without any such compromise, we wouldn't get this text of the law. So we are also fully aware of the fact that the Government of Republika Srpska and that other authorities, i.e. the competent authorities of Republika Srpska, have been prepared and demonstrated their willingness to transfer some of the competences as regulated by this law, and in that sense, the SDS Club will support the principles on which this law stands. On the observations referred to in point (a) of the selection of the candidate for the selection of the rectors, etc. We will, of course, define ourselves in the amendment phase because we do seem to be the amendment of Mr. Kragulj to that member, so I can only say that for us it is not a questionable provision, so that we simply allow certain and changes when we are already doing reforms here to allow certain changes in that personal sense to existing universities. So the SDS Club supports the principles on which this law is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12180	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word has the chairman of the House Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12181	I thank and greet everyone. I think the debate is open and transparent, so here I am going to try to make my contribution to it. Of course, I would also have to answer because here a few things are explicitly directed towards the Club or towards the persons of the HDZ-Democracy Club, so here I will start from the fact that the amendments that I have submitted are unacceptable, because they change the concept of the law, that's what the honourable representative Mr. Kunić said. And I'd just say, whoever didn't have a chance can take the amendments, let me find one point, one point where these amendments are not in line with the Constitution and constitutional solutions, and to what extent they question the essence of the concept. So if we really want to be consistent and transfer the debate with the Constitutional and Legal Commission, then we can say that we had two options, gentlemen. To make a real reform, to transfer powers to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to standardise a solution to redistribution, mobility, European quality in the provision of services to each other, the positions of the university, the financing of the quality of the programme and everything else, and to do the same for every student in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we are passing state law. We don't pass entity laws today. I'd remind you, this is state law. And following the extensive debate and the successive amendments that we have tabled there, principles and the approach of these amendments have been rejected so that the matter can be consistently implemented at the state level. And it's 4:2. If you won't mean full reform, state, then will we respect the Constitution consistently, with the possibilities given by this constitution with all its limitations. Those amendments were also rejected. So neither the whole reform variant nor the variant of consistent compliance with the Constitution has passed. That's what I have to say for the public and for this home. Well, gentlemen, this is a political fight. It doesn't have to end today and it won't, and maybe it'll end up negatively at one club and I won't speak any stronger words now, etc. Mr. Lagumdžija, you don't have to warn me at all, but I think about it before you do. And thank you for your concern not to say the hard words in this House. Only you should take care of it, and I was Mr. Lagumdžija three years ago, when you're warning me 23 years ago, when you're the leader of the opposition ignoring, let's say, one legitimate election will of a people and you end up in a political sense the way you ended up. And today we can lose in the vote here, that Mr. Avdić would feel free to comment and watch, I stand behind every word of his, so if you can today in this House claim that a full consensus has been achieved by ignoring here the fact that people have been written from the university to the institutions means university, plus students, plus responsible persons institutionally representing valid links in the elements of the identity of a nation and if you ignore it and if you are bothered by what someone points to it, then we should ask ourselves which way do we sail? So much for the principles here and let it remain recorded. I would like to say in person, therefore, we are absolutely for the reform of higher education and for the application of every international relevant document that treats higher education, the Bologna Declaration, the Lisbon Declaration, the Sorbonne Declaration, the Selamanka Declaration from Paris, all documents we want to implement in this law. That's what we want for students, not for political interests. But don't expect us to agree in this game of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the rules of the game in which everything will be allowed in order to realise certain political goals under the company of higher education reform. And we had a situation with the Framework Law on Fundamental Education where ministers' instructions were to address issues concerning the application of the official language and today we have a struggle over it. It's a constitutional category, gentlemen. We are talking about constitutional categories, we are talking about European categories, and this political struggle is going on a little bit today, and this stereotype that we are against reform, that we are segregation slowly melts, and here we are in the Council of Europe, and in other notations, and it will melt. We are not for any segregation or discrimination, but we are not for losing our identity in all these European processes. That's all we want. Nothing more. So no hard words. There's no charges, there's nothing else. And in order for the gentlemen to do so condescendingly, then we have to tell you what this is all about. So, if there are no constitutional solutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, explicitly and accepted by the Constitutional Commission as it has accepted in the circumstances in which it has accepted that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, then it should be respected as is respected by Republika Srpska and none of us has questioned either of us in any word on the Constitutional and Legal Commission or its position, such as the Brcko Entity in this law, the same category, the same relationship must apply to county gentlemen, or cantons. Because they have explicit jurisdiction over it. They have the original jurisdiction and are not treated here. And you want to transfer that original jurisdiction not to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here we are ready so we are. At the very moment, I am saying to you that there is no person who will question it, but at the level of the Federation where relations are as they are, I will not qualify them differently, but in the constitutional legal sense we have no guarantee that we can preserve that kind of decentralised competences that are necessarily European. And that's all there is to it, nothing more. No segregation was to be respected on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and on this House. And Mr. Gligorić, if you want to support and talk about deadlines like that, you need to respect this argument. If, and our amendments in that direction, gentlemen. If there is a willingness to accept such an approach, here we are, today we settle everything in 24 hours. There's no problem. But don't tell me we're obstructing the law that we don't want the law and that we're either single or against the minister and against the ministry and against anyone. Let us once in Parliament make it possible for a legitimate political debate, so as to result. No Niko here will say. If the law is passed, adopted, thank God adopted, it will be applied. There are other mechanisms, if anyone thinks elsewhere, I agree with all Mr. Avdić where that protection can be sought, but it will be evaluated by parties and people. But this is about the fact that the reform has not been carried out at all 24, and that's the first conclusion, and that's why I came to the most, it's a semi-reform that unfortunately has political implications because of these semi-steps. And if there is no willingness to go into full reform, do not accept the solutions they consider inferior, or damaged. It wouldn't be right. Because the amendments offered do not prejudge solutions and question any constitutional basis, no constitutional interest that has been articulated either in entity, or in the state Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's the answer to Mrs. Palavrić why she asked where there was concern. Mrs Palavrić, as a club, we cannot give this authority to transfer the legislative and exclusive powers of Canton to the Federation. That is why we believe that it is not in principle that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and that we have no guarantee of the protection of these issues. That's a clear and clear answer. So we don't need to discuss it any further. But let's just mention a few more words, since there's been one quite like this in public I'd say a serious debate and every legitimate request says it's a request for an ethnic university, that's this, that's it. So, come on, people, if we're going to talk here, we're going to talk freely. Shall we speak responsibly? Well, you won't think they'll give in under that kind of political pressure and blackmail and that kind of attitude towards legitimate demands without at least showing up at the places of political decision, which is the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is only about respecting constitutional provisions and respecting provisions concerning the official use of languages that are valid under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that mix that's been in play for the last three years, trust me, it's gonna melt, it's gonna melt safe. And it will melt in such a way as not to become Hrvat again declared isolationists, segregators, but people who want European solutions in this House. And let this debate be today. What Mr. Zorić said should follow this long debate. I haven't seen a single reaction on the trail of these arguments that we've presented, but that's politics and that's the order of steps and we're ready and in this order of steps and in such circumstances to participate and take all responsibility for both positive and negative things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12182	I thank the Chairman of the House. The replicas were reported by Mrs Seada Palavrić and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. After that, there is a discussion of Mr. Mladen Potočnik. So this is the order of the chairman, so Mrs. Seada Palavrić, the replica, let Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared for the discussion, Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12183	I actually wanted to use my right to discuss it before, but I'll be as brief as the replica, so I'd like to refer a few questions to Minister Halilović. Namely, in Article 3 when it comes to definitions, there is no definition of the degree of the first cycle. Let me, if they have others, then it would be correct to have that definition as well. Then there's a problem that Mr. Raguž is talking about. The definition of the entity's competent authority, according to the bill's proposal, marks a body acting on the basis of a consensus, which is designated as responsible for a specific function in the area of higher education by the Federation of BiH or the ministry as responsible for a specific function in the area of higher education by Republika Srpska. 25 Gentlemen, there is someone missing who will do these things for the Brcko District who is not an entity that would have to apply the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina directly. The next question is in Article 15 of the Faculty has no legal personality, yet it is given the right to dispose of and manage the land and buildings already owned by it in accordance with applicable laws. Furthermore, in Article 18 of the Higher Education Institute, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, they shall have the right to first select their administrative and management bodies and set their mandate. I am now asking in the context of the amendment of the SNSD Club when it comes to limiting the rector's mandate to two, to two, at most, whether it is our attempt as legislators to determine the number of mandates of a rector with possible interference in university autonomy. Even though I feel that no one should be a rector more than twice. But would that be a mix-up in autonomy? In the same Article 18th indent, to define higher education institutions as the official language or official languages of one or more languages of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also unacceptable for me that at any university, if I want to study, I must speak a language that is not my native language, one of the three official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he's one of the languages of the constituent peoples. And still,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12184	Mrs. Palavrić, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. It was a clean debate. I didn't want to interrupt you, you have the possibility of reporting and respecting the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12185	I signed up for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12186	You signed up for the replica. He gave you his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12187	It's just, I apologize, from the beginning of state and entity. Here we find it again in 57 and 58 that entity law will resolve the status of the higher schools so far, no later than the beginning of 2005 and 2006 by the law of the entity. No entity can solve the problem of the Brcko District. And, in Article 58. The Brcko District will regulate the issue of establishment of higher education according to this law. So, the same question that will solve entities in Article 57. And I'd really like to ask the answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12188	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Lagumdžija signed up for the replica. Here's the Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12189	I thank the chairman, I hope you registered me for the discussion, because I answered, so when the time comes I will talk about what I planned, but not to talk about one expense, suggests counterpart Belkić. The replica refers to your claim that three years ago I suspended the legitimate will of a nation.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12190	Don't ignore it. It's very different.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12191	Ignored one will of a nation. I consider your claim to be completely inappropriate, nor adapted to today's agenda as a whole, and especially this item of the agenda, and in order to correct you just to remind you, that three years ago the Council of Ministers was established, in accordance with the Constitution of this country, and that I don't remember exactly where you were in it, but then the president of your party called people to go into the self-government project, because you call it what you called, as you called it, by ignoring the will of a nation, to finish this replica, and to remind you that this ignoring was concluded by the statement of the then president of the HDZ, Mr Ante Jelavić that it was the Croatian self-government whether this was an adventure, in which they set off and in which I did not want to answer, and how we handed it to the public, because we didn't invite anyone in any way that we would be able to do it in any new way, and how we did the next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12192	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. The answer to the line, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12193	Okay, a little energy won't hurt. So, at the time that you're talking about, Mr Lagudmžij by the BiH Presidency, as constitutionally authorised proposing, I was identified as a candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I have already done. And, in that capacity as an official candidate, you have as the head of the opposition refused, not only to see, not just to meet publicly, but to refuse the meeting officially... So in that sense, I thought that, not that you ignored the official will, the legitimate will, but that you ignored one official decision. But it doesn't matter now. Then you entered into the category of some other elements. I said it like that in my walk, because I think there's a lot of ground to say that there are elements of ignoring legitimate interests today. So this is about facts, not emotions, and I didn't say that you've been suspended, but that you've ignored and I'm staying with it, and that Mr. Lagumdžija is going to stay in history. I answer for each of my actions as you will before the law, in front of the competent institutions, and I don't need to answer anything else here. And as for the project that you have politically promoted, it has been, it will remain written, based on the unconstitutional election rules and regulations and you know that it has deviated from those ultimately of Barry's rules and regulations. Of course, you formed that authority based on these rules and you had representatives from the House of Nations, who were not, an objective expression of legitimacy. It's the kind of legality that was based on Barry's election rules and regulations. 27 But since you obviously have a kind of problem with legality and legitimacy, it will leave us to discuss it in public life politics and to respect ourselves as we have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12194	I thank Mr. Raguž. So, answer to the reply to the replica, Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12195	Mr. Raguž, since your claim referred to ignoring the will of a nation, the Croatian people, we have now clarified what it means, just to remind you that the post after you has come to the chairman of the Council of Ministers Professor Božidar Matić, who belongs, also, to the order of the same people as you, and about his expertise in relation to yours there is no need to speak to anyone, it is a var to everyone clearly when it comes to his expertise. And, finally, let me remind you, I don't really want to open up the controversy between you and Mr. Jelavić whether self-government was a mistake or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12196	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12197	So I can tell you that I will keep this right to myself and that I will publicly comment on it, but you don't have to remind me of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12198	Thank you, and I think we can move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12199	Mr. Zorić's replica, then Mr. Potočnik's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12200	Since you can talk under the line whatever we want, and now Mr Lagumdžija is clearly demonstrated, I will say that to him and his party, the story of the Croatian self-government will not bring any more votes in the next election, and you will again be defeated where you, as candidates, appointed ministers, who have not received one or received up to 10 votes in the Croatian people. Therefore, the academic did not get much votes from Croatia, nor from other peoples, and he was appointed to the Council of Ministers, and he did not get Croatian votes in this parliament either. So that's what Mr Raguž was talking about, and it's not about the HDZ party and it's not about Croatian self-government. So you took advantage here as a showman opportunity to talk about Croatian self-government and the Croatian Democratic Community. Mr Raguž said that in 2000, after the 2000 elections, the will of the Croatian people was ignored. How? So there were five Hrvat in the House of the Peoples of BiH, and some of them were not at all a parliamentary party, so they did not have in the counties to delegate themselves to the House of the Federation, in order for the people's home to choose the five, they had no other 28 representatives. The Federation's home was established, illegally with 14 MPs of 30. That's not most of them at all. And those 14 chose this five in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's true, Mr. Lagumdžija, look in the archives, urinal, etc. If you consider those five legally elected by 14 people of 30 who were to sit in the House of Peoples, then all honor, affair, congratulations, etc., but your story today is a hollow story and you won't get any more votes in the 2006 elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12201	It's really not a replica, it's really a correction of the wrong quote. The false allegation refers only to the academic Matić, mentioned here. Mr. Zorić here claims that Mr. Matić has won a dozen votes and I don't know how many votes, I want to inform you that it's the wrong quote. Mr. Matić didn't run for office either, he wasn't a candidate at all, so he couldn't get a single vote. So he wasn't a candidate anywhere. He was simply a professional figure elected president of the Council of Ministers. His professional qualities and his work should not be specifically talked about, just a false allegation, about that. ... to count who the Hrvat is and who isn't, because you really go too far when you're able to say such a thing about Mr. Matić, I think it's incorrect, because he's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12202	Okay, Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you. Just standardize that kind of correctness. Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12203	I am pleased that, indeed, Mr. Jozo Križanović, who literally said that, and if he did not, let him not be ashamed. I'm a legitimate, but illegal member of the Peds. I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12204	Mr. Potočnik picked up the phone. Conversation, please pay attention. Are there any more reported? I'd like to conclude a series of reports that we can plan the time, because the conclusion of the debate on this point? Can I read the reports? So after Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Mr. Jović, are you staying for the debate you asked for in the beginning? Yeah. Okay. Mrs. Palavrić, are you finished? Thank you very much, so Mr. Moranjkić. I don't have any more reports. Is there anyone else? I'm closing the hearing with this guy. Can we do that? Okay. I am not denying the right, but I am giving you the opportunity to apply, so far Mr. Moranjkić has been last reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, in ispred of the klub of Members of the BOSS, the DNZ and myself as a free, or independent representative, we will adopt the proposed law. It is not definitely and is not the right solution, it is, in 29 things, just a framework law, which we need to accept under the international community's press and if we don't get the money, we're just going to get the credit. I have to state in this case that HDZ is in principle right when it wants this law to be brought to an end, or at the level of the state. But it's also not the administration, if it can't be brought to an end, or at the state level to return to the cantons, because no canton has 500 thousand or 500 thousand inhabitants, as neither does the Brcko District. I understand that colleagues from entities called the Republic prefer that it is half on the entity, half on the state of BiH. But in the end, I must say, even this small step in creating the integration of BiH-level education is acceptable to me and my colleagues at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12206	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12207	Jozo was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12208	Mr. Križanović, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12209	I'm sorry, indeed, this replica may be groundless, but I'd like to ask our colleague who is chairing this session, on behalf of the Club, to ask and protect us in these debates, which have nothing to do with the agenda, which are some criticisms, which, let me say, insults. I'm really asking that, because it really has nothing to do with the agenda point, including you, Mr. Chairman, because look out, I wanted to say that I'm not going to replicate, precisely for the reason that I'm contributing to the efficiency of this home. It says guilty, I think that some statements are improvised, quoted wrongly, etc., which is not, of course, related to some discussions, and I ask you in that sense, I give up any replica, although there were many reasons to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12210	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Zorić replika, so Mr.... Bešlagić's hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12211	I'd rather have stories, which I've just replicated silently, but because of the public who listens to us, and also because of the other colleagues, I can't. Well, in order to calm down this passion, I'm asking for a break from, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12212	We'll continue at 1:00 sharp. 30 ... today's session of the House of Representatives, on the 3rd point, it's a proposal for a framework law on higher education. [[PAUZA]] Next in line for the debate is Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12213	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I will only say a few words, because I believe that the debate so far has shown some advantages, but also some contradictions. First of all, I would like to stress that Mr Jović's initial exposure pointed out one thing, which is that the Federation government does not have any authority over the university today in BiH. That's a fact. It is a cantonal level, but the essential thing is that I would like to highlight the question whether the Hrvat participated in the debate on these matters is not the issue of this parliament. Two questions are being asked here. Were they invited? If they weren't invited that's the thing, I'd say the criticisms of those who didn't invite them, and if they were invited so they didn't come, then I don't think I can justify 'cause they didn't come because they might want to obstruct. I think that's where we need to withdraw you conjoined and we need to give answers on calls through a debate led and led by giving our own proposals. Another thing I'd like to point out, because I used to act as president of the canton, I must say that Mr. Špirić said one thing here. We don't know how many people at which universities are studying from BiH today, so I don't know if we have four cantons from the University of Croatia or Banja Luka from RS and Herzegovina, or if I don't know from Brcko District, but I do know one thing that four cantons with the Croatian majority have allocated funds to the University of Mostar. I'd say the University of Mostar, and if I knew that Tuzla University was the only one that was singled out by Tuzla Canton. I just want to say that this is one illogicality if we want to create equal conditions, instead of creating certain conditions for certain qualities and other, here we are today in a situation where the representatives of HDZ here are discussing these amendments,... amendments and I must say that I am disappointed that of the 20 amendments they have proposed, but none of them have been adopted as an amendment. I've tried to find here an amendment by chance, I mean it's Amendment 34, where in the text that I have the high law, there's no entity and state level in that text, so that amendment can be considered adopted and at least I don't have this paragraph 2 that you state as such. However, the fact is next. We as a state parliament have faced one fact that the Council of Europe has set conditions for the creation of a law on the university, to put it on a drastic level. I must say, by supporting the basic principles, and this is putting students' role in the first position, in the first position, that, in this way, I believe that if there is no scientific and research work as an element, that the choice of rectors as an amendment proposed by the SNSD, I, after all, believe that, in this way, we will provide, if this amendment is adopted, the possibility of making changes to people come into certain qualities and I believe that without the reason that they should not give a place and role to the college and the deans in what many imagine to return to the old position, the structure of universities and deans should be set up as one pyramid, which, in addition to consultations, they can get the place they deserve. Otherwise, I have to point out that I was here in a dilemma because the representatives of HDZ and Mr. Raguž and Mr. Jović suggested the exact same amendment, but I would say the opposite or better for 180, while Jović suggested that these amendments go to the central level, which, in my opinion, is quite acceptable, I am now speaking as Selim Bešlagić, so far as Mr. Raguž suggested, I 31 would say to agree to the existing law with these amendments, because he, in fact, suggests that this is where RS and cantons enter as elements without the Federation and states, and that I now say in this column, for one simple reason why I have to say that the Federation has not done its part of the work and that it has failed to transfer the higher education to the level, the Federal Level, and therefore believe that I am now in a very large dilemma of what and how to vote, except for these basic principles which I have been true and that the rightly accepted in this respect of the law, the law of the law, so that the law, I have not been able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to make the right of the right of the law, so that it to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to I say, I express my regret for that and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12214	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Short on behalf of the Commission Mr. Ćeman, then the word has Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12215	I wanted to say, perhaps even an apology for reporting again on behalf of the Komsija, but I do need to say, on behalf of the Commission, on this discussion that Mr Bešlagić had just said, and here the chairman of the dom was also a member of the Commission, that is, one of the chairmans of the Constitutional and Law Committee. Indeed, it may seem strange that the Commission did not adopt it, here as we have heard no amendments by colleagues Jović and colleagues Raguž, who are here, present themselves as amendments on behalf of, let's say, the Croatian people, so they are represented here. The question is too much, but the clarification is as follows. We tried, so I led the Commission, here are the people who attended, that, given the, however, conceptually, to say the opposing opinions on some important, principled issues, that, if possible, we would reduce the differences to the least possible measure and, on the other hand, we would, as we have already said, agree literally on the law on basic and secondary education to try to agree on this issue. Of course, on behalf of this commission I spoke earlier and now, the Constitutional and Legal Commission decides, so to speak, it cannot agree, according to the Rules of Procedure and we have done so and personally, therefore, it was not a problem at least from my point of view to accept many of these things, but since we have found, in the context of the debate on the principles that it is difficult or impossible to agree on principles, then at least it is my approach to leading the Commission and if you want me to say the majority in the Commission was, then let's accept the concept we received from the promoter, it is the Council of Ministers and that, possibly, the amendments through the amendment are, let's say, marginal nature. In other words, you could also see it through the adopted amendments themselves, which, better say, you don't get in the way of principles. That is, in fact, the reason why we, in my end case, did not adopt a series of quite acceptable amendments. If it's a mistake, if it's not a mistake, here's the rest, it'll show this debate. But I want, therefore, that this home, of course, and colleagues from the Constitutional Commission, as well as other colleagues to understand that in this attempt, we have found one methodological way out or approach, which ultimately had a result on the Constitutional Commission that you received in the written report. I'm not doing it, believe me, I'll be happy with that, but it was as much as possible, and I'll end up with that, so let me say, here's a colleague Jović who's not here right now, he mentioned two of the illustrations, two amendments, which could have been adopted without touching, not even touching 32 of those principled issues that are the subject of the dispute here first of all. Let's say that status change issue at university, university, etc. We tried then, a colleague Jović did not reshape his amendment, that is correct, here is also shown in the renewed amendment. We then explained that the very formulation of the law, the merger, the attachment, the abolition, are actually forms that are meant by the expression of constant change. We could've accepted that. It wasn't a problem. It's not unfortunately rephraseed, or at least I didn't get the explicits that it was re-formed and therefore, let's say one such amendment was not accepted, although there's no reason not to be accepted. If the wording is a status change, but if it is only a formula to delete the word "and merge" from the existing text then it does not reflect such a modified amendment and in that sense it could not be accepted. I, therefore, apologized for being again on behalf of the Commission, although I do not have to apologize for being involved in the debate, I wanted to explain, how successful I was, again you can determine, that, therefore, there was no word here, was no non-discipline coalition. This is one, when I discussed the general principles of a methodological attempt to get out of what the Rules of Procedure has given us, and going back to the solutions proposed by the Council of Ministers. As good as that is, here's what we're seeing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12216	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Belkić prepare, then Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12217	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, and I agree with all those who consider this to be an extremely important law and its importance is not only that its adoption will lead to appropriate financial support for the reform of higher education. It is very good that we have the opportunity to reach a higher education law, which has the willingness of appropriate international fines. an institution, to help him. It would be bad if this law didn't follow any nice ones. and every other academic support. It is also very important that this law opens the process to what we all call, what we all call it and if we know and if we do not know what we are calling a Bologna process. And I'm sure one of these laws is in itself a shift in relation to the state we're in. The more overall, to say the situation in higher education in BiH, when it comes to supporting scientific and research work and when supporting the creation of a new underage teacher is more than necessary. It is also known to us that the student standard today in this country is on an inaccessible low limit, and that, unfortunately, one system, which we had and which meant free study was completely destroyed and that we came into a situation that we had a completely different extreme compared to the one we had when the study was free for all those who wanted it and who were also talented and for the socially most socially endangered categories of people. Unfortunately, I think that some of the solutions in this law, even if we accept their amendments most well-meaningly, and even the most these amendments give us, if we put it all in place, I'm afraid we have a law that still has a lot of open questions, which we don't need to keep like that. 33 I want first of all to express my support for the efforts that have been heard here in the debate, that the law as such, and that is not disputed and the principles that they contain, and the content that this law is poisoning, that they are put at the highest level of the state and that everything that goes in that direction I support, we may not all support for the same reasons, it is irrelevant why we support it. I support that because I believe that in four million inhabitants we cannot have a good system of higher education if it closes to lower levels than the state level. I think that funding and making professors, academics, entity and cantonal from county and students, something like that, which is completely contrary to all world trends when it comes to high education, and that is why I fully support all the efforts to make amendments here, by some amendments, for which, in that sense, support should be given, but when we support these amendments, I think we haven't solved many things again, and I'm going to say which things I don't think we've solved by these laws or even the most favourable breakthroughs of amendments that we have available. In particular, there is no need to leave some things unspeakable and leave room for further politicizing something in which politics should not be dominant. I, therefore, once again underline that, as far as possible, the greater level of rounding of their funding and quality certification functions for as large a level as possible, in this case specifically state-level, and preferably this law should open up what I lack to verify, in law-defined certification, which is higher than our national level, which is accepted as an international standard. The example is working, at the moment at the university where I come from, we have a teacher who is a professor at the leading university, who doctored across the ocean and the main problem is for him today to nostrate a diploma that is not available at all in that country, an example works. Technically speaking at our university, a professor who's doctored at Harvart, he's a doctorate at Harvard, not a master's degree in the doctorate process, because that's not where it's not done. So, just in case you want to get a master's certificate, you can't, according to our university's laws, nostrate a Master's degree from Harvard there she didn't even exist in your doctorate process, I find only one example, seemingly banal, but we're now trying to find ways to solve that problem and such problems, I'm sure in every university, less you have. So, we need to open up the possibility that certification that is above the state level, and it is acceptable by international norms and standards, as we already have the principle that the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms as an act of higher level than our constitution, is an integral part of that constitution, and then it is applied in such a way as to find connections to similar standards in this law, which, I say, are certified on a higher level, even from the state level, and that is why I sum up that any certification of entity and cantonal is, to say the least, a relapse of something that does not lead us anywhere. I want, also this opportunity to say, that the principle, which I fully support and which must be incorporated, is the principle of equality of every nation in the territory of this entire country. So, if I advocate giving certificates of appropriate and high education at the state level, that in no way means that it can be done in a way that will question the equality of any nation in any part of BiH's territory. I mean, if I understood correctly, the amendments, already a colleague, Bešlagić, spoke about it, the amendments of counterparts Jović and colleagues of Raguž, are conditionally held in two parts. If this is what Mr. Raguž is giving up, then I will go in that direction, I will not compromise with it at all, and only in the direction Mr. Jović spoke. 34 I think it should be very clear, which is that if we give some things to the state level and we want to ensure equality at the state level, equality is not provided through consensus on things that are not subject to consensus. My colleague Jović has been pleased with my discussion so far, I hope, however, we are now entering a slightly more delicate domain. I'm going to set an example for me to be clear. We have a CIPOK as an institution that needs to define the certificates. CIPOK is an institution that is a strictly professional thing and a CIPOK as an institution, which is a strictly professional thing and defined by an appropriate set of members from 43rd to 48th and after the full licensing of accreditation to members from 49th to 51st. CIPOK is something that I fully believe should be an exclusive state matter, because God forbid we have the possibility of it being regional and European, but at this point the CIPOK should be a state matter. However, in the CIPOK then to introduce amendments to the principle of consensus in work, that is something that is contradictory to the nature of the CIPOK, if the CIPOK should be defined in the way that the amendments here are, conditionally said I have a problem, I agree with part of the amendment, I disagree with part of the amendment, I am talking purely about the professional matter. Then take the question of the fund, to fund higher education. I completely agree that the fund should be on state level, I totally agree with that. Not because, well, I don't come to the BiH Party, so I agree with that, but I think our funds are so dead and depreciated that they don't allow the quality to be right, on the other hand, the way it's set up here in the amendments, you have the principle that the board of directors as it was given in the amendments, the board of directors, I agree with Mr Jović with your approach here, but I don't agree with the way that this board is being established, because you here suggest that the board of directors consist, watch out for six members, equal number of the presidents of all three constituent nations, means 2 - 2 - 2 - 2 and be careful, it is appointed by the Council of Ministers. This directly penetrates the autonomy of the university, in the way it is defined and conditionally stated in the law, I disagree with the way the law is defined. There are funds in the law that are low-level, but besides the funds, it is guaranteed that the presidents of the university will be in that fund, and you have placed only people appointed by the Council of Ministers in the fund's representatives. I think that, to put it that way, there's a little problem. I don't agree with what stands there as a whole, but there are good things about you, which, unfortunately, when you bring them to the end, in the way you brought them, I'm not sure which of these two bad solutions would be defined. I think there's a good solution on the trail of these two solutions. I also consider that in the law of the basic Mr. Chairman, both in the basic text of the law and in the amendments, you can see that the members, which speak about the formation of both the funds and this council for the financing of the relevant one, are told that it will consist of nine members, I am talking about the basic text of the law, which the Council of Ministers appoints, on the basis of the equal representation of all three constituent peoples. Take care of the three-year term with the possibility of re-election, provided that the initial appointment is carried out in phases, so that one-third is re-elected or re-appointed each year. What does that mean? This member here, as well as the proposal to go to the same number, I, therefore, do not dispute that it should be equal to the number of members of all three constituent nations, but I do not think that we can pass a law that makes it impossible for someone who has, say, won our citizenship, and we have such people, and let's say that he is an Amerikanac, and he is a professor. We have, I have a citizen of Canada, who feels that way, he can't be in this fund, because he's not a member of any of these three constituent nations, and he is a BiH citizen. Therefore, the law cannot be discriminatory against those who are not members of at least one of the three constituent nations. ...I believe it's a Belgian principle, but Belgium does not have as part of its constitution the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms that we have. I don't argue that there is. 35 So, I think that's something, to make sure that we pass a law, which in its own form already contains elements that are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, in the extreme case that are contrary to the principle of university autonomy and human freedom at least at that level as much as possible. I also think that this Article 18 of this 8th which spoke, in law, and I ask that an explanation be given, because I could not make it out of this, namely such a defined article 18, requires an explanation, when it says that in the provisions of this law that higher education institutions will have the right to define as the official language or official languages of one or more languages of the constituent peoples of BiH. So, I'd like to ask an explanation, to be very clear, what I'm interested in. So our constitution guarantees that everyone can use, speaks a language that is his native language, which is an official language and a conditioned language of the peoples and citizens of this country. My question is this. Does this mean that a university, which is a state university, has state funding tomorrow can make a decision, that at that university there is the only language in which you can teach and in which students have to answer one of the languages, one please, so to clarify this? The way it's defined here, the way it's defined here, I'm not saying that, so I think if it's, if that means it, then it's the exact opposite of our constitution. Martina, it says fine here, then it's defined to make sure it doesn't mean, because this when it's printed in the Official Journal, our discussion isn't part of the official list and the comment that it doesn't mean it. I, allow me, and we all know each other well enough here that this is precisely based on this can be decided that it is at Sarajevo University, say Bosnian, so it says one or more languages. What if the Sarajevo University makes a Saturday decision, in accordance with this law, that there is an official Bosnian language at Sarajevo University? Does this mean that all those teachers who speak Croatian and Serbian cannot teach or must teach in Bosnian? Does this mean that students who take their place have to lay exclusively in Bosnian and, if the teacher thinks they don't speak that language, they can be eliminated because of that, that's my question? I don't argue that there can be universities in this country, where it's going to be, but then it's not a state university. It can be a private university, in which it will be a language, it can be an English language. This is also a small problem for me, which we have today, specifically I come from such a higher school institution where we have a program together, a joint education with two American universities and we have a discussion that part of the course is held in English. We have a class that holds postgraduate, here there is a colleague of Azra Hadžiahmetović, in which we have a joint education with the university of one of Croatia and Slovenia, where according to the agreement between our three universities and the relevant universities, it is agreed that teaching takes place in the languages of those three universities, that a student who wants to know that he is coming to school and that he will be part of the course in Slovenian, does not have to attend this if he does not. But that doesn't mean we have to have a class in our own language, but if we can, what we're doing right now with American university and Slovenian that it's the opposite of this law. I don't think we need that. And since we are talking about principles, I agree with the content to adapt that what affects the quality goes to the state level, that this must be the principle of equality of all three peoples in the entire territory of this country must be satisfied with this law, that what has to be ensured is the independence of higher education, some amendments here are the opposite of that, that the consensus is used where it belongs, and in the amendments, which Jović here, in a number of cases, is proposed a consensus in places where it does not belong, which are professional things, and that I do not repeat it all together, that professional issues are left to the profession, that the law defines the state's obligations towards students and the financing of students, because only in one indent, one member defined that such plans will be made. The law did not define this as an obligation to support at least the highest quality students, not to mention socially endangered categories. 36 Also, I believe that the remarks made by my colleague Avdić, that we cannot act in amendment now, unless otherwise we conclude and I think that they are completely justified and that Mr Kunić spoke of it, that the institution of the rector, which will now practically have a centralized role, so that literally several decades of experience in the academic community that knows autonomy and colleges to a certain extent, is being completely undermined here, it is an experiment that we are afraid to enter with our throat into strawberries, which will not lead us far and ultimately to the principle that none of these things can be contrary to European conventions on human rights and freedoms, and above all I am talking to those parts that eliminate the possibility of being elected into any of these bodies, defined by law, if you are simply a citizen of BiH who is not a member of any of the three constituent people, respecting the fact that all three constitutive nations and that in this debate are not subject to the law, which we are not subject to what we are allowed to the law, and the law, which we are not subject to what we are subject to the right to any of law, which we are allowed to the law. So I suggest, on the basis of this debate, if possible, that the Council of Ministers, respecting what is said here to give us a new proposal of this law, may be in the shortest possible procedure, by all means the shortest procedures, but to respect these things that are said here or I suggest another conclusion, if this one does not get it, I think that this one would be the best and that we should tell people who are here who are watching us from abroad, so what does matter, if you wait another 15 days for this to come to a conclusion that opens up the possibility of re-aming action after we get the proper assurances about the Council of Ministers' corrections. I think the first conclusion would be better, the second conclusion allows us to do it in a less quality way but faster, so you can slow down but better quality, or, and the worst possibility that is now ahead of us, because I see there's a lot of reform mood here, that this, that this gets most of the votes. Allow me, I'm a professor of university, I'm getting paid as a professor of university, I've worked for years, I'm not just a professor at Sarajevo University, I have experience better than people who come to us from abroad as an expert on teaching us, how in some African countries this is done. As a professor of Sarajevo University, I can't raise my hand for a law like this until these things are clear, and anyone who doesn't understand this will say, I believe the Council of Ministers, I don't need to know everything. Here, I understand this and I can't raise my hand for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12218	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić, and let Mr. Moranjkić be prepared and then Mr. Ivo Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12219	I'll try for a while, because it's just a matter of first reading and so far we've spent a lot of time and heard everything that's in my opinion you could hear. It is true that a large number of university professors participated in the debate, and that is fortunate for this House of Representatives, however, I have not seen a unique approach to this law and to tell you right now I do not have a clearer view of the Akonian solutions before their discussions, but let me get to the point. 37 So, the Party for BiH MPs' club, which is absolutely dedicated to thorough reforms, which are heading towards training the attractive, etc. and so far he has not been satisfied with the speed, as it is common to say at the depth of certain reforms, or certain legal solutions, which have ambitions to change things in secluded areas. So it's about defence reform, it's about income reform, that is, the establishment of an indirect tax administration, etc. So, in the situation mentioned here and in various possibilities, we recognize three possibilities, therefore, the full reform that Mr Raguž spoke of and others here, a complete reform that involves taking charge by auctioning, introducing standards and decision-making methods, etc. which everyone here has said is not satisfactory, i.e. it is unsustainable to change the third version, which is before us, therefore, one legislative project, which, according to us, marks the beginning of the process, which could in the future draw closer to the quality of this whole reform that we are talking about. We will define ourselves to support the law by first reading, understanding it as the beginning of the process. Why don't we just say that, waste a lot of time and maybe be more persistent when it comes to this whole reform, etc. For the simple reason that no certain assumptions have been obtained. So, BiH, as a state, is unfortunately still not sovereignly ruling its own revenues, so the Directorate for indirect taxation has not been established. We would depend on the entity in an indirect way again when it comes to these phonods, etc. Besides, it's obvious that, as Lagumdžija said by the reform forces, I don't know exactly what context he thought he was in, they're not fully in the mood to support this solution right now. We will, therefore, today's first reading will support the proposed solution, and in the amendment phase we will determine each amendment in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12220	Mr. Lagumdžija's clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12221	That Mr. Belkić would not have lost his answer and that he would not have doubted it, and I, a colleague, and especially my colleague Belkić, did not like to hold him in doubt. I was very clear when I said that today I am afraid that there is a great desire for a number of people to show themselves as reformers in front of the international community by voting for something they may be private against and for which they will explain in the halls that they actually meant it under certain conditions. So, I'm just calling for us not to vote today for the international community, but for ourselves. And today, we have enough arguments to settle some things with an additional, possibly time of 7 - 15 or 20 days as long as we need and to come up with a solution that would be acceptable to us, rather than voting just because someone from the international community asks us to do so. Those who seek it from the international community have completed fewer schools than many of us here, so I don't see any reason why we should listen to them. Eh, we're on our first reading, but berize, since we're on our first reading, I'm just saying that the amendments we have now, these amendments that we now have, if they can't be amended by this text of the law, and these amendments can't be forged by the law, which I could raise my hand for. I think we should either open up a new amendment capacity to refine this, or it'd be even better if the Council of Ministers took over this and re-open the first reading in seven days and, secondly, if this Council of Ministers accepts it to hold and we speed it up. But if we accept this today, without the conclusion that we can move forward with the amendment, because you know our reading of the Rules of Procedure, then we're experts... in which case we have... 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12222	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija for his clarification. The word is Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12223	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow Members, MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief on this reform law. I did not accidentally point this out in reform, because I believe that the law that is before us is really a law worth the attention and it belongs to that group of jobs, which we have called reform, to give them priorities in the legislative procedure and to get certain conditions that they have finally given us, i.e. they have adopted together. The law that lies before us is a framework law. It has been completed under the supposed signs of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I think it is good that it has not been completed, it should only be passed on to this parliament, with one single statement that it has a constitutional and legal okular and that it meets certain legal principles, and that it should be put into debate so that certain parts, which are treated with this law, can be done as well as possible. For example, the entire SNSD amendment, I could accept as an MP, and many things from the next amendments have room. Okay, Mr. Lagumdžija has noticed, and some, probably have no room at the moment, conditionally looking at the state and conditions that need to be resolved by this law. However, I cannot help but support certain initiatives of some fellow Members of Parliament, who have touched certain problems, and I will draw particular attention to those two or three, if we remain in the conclusion that we are solving the issue of amendments or if we conclude that with these proposals, the law once again brings the Council of Ministers to the table and re-enter the procedure. I accept both, so in that context, I give my suggestions. I support the initiative and opinions of those MPs who have said that this law is the basic organisational cell of the university, where 90% of the life of the university, this university in a broad sense of the word, has practically escaped from this law, which does not mean that I am standing in the view that the university should be given legal personality status, but it needs to be reconsidered status, role and certain tasks, which, in this concept of higher education, should also have those tasks that he now has, should only be reviewed and left with what fits, and take away what no longer fits into this education system. Otherwise, I think the law would be like that if this wasn't taken on. Furthermore, if the rector's powers and election were to be reconsidered. The thing as set up as I see it historically as a whip to God, which is set up, even if this thinking of the SNSD is not adopted to limit its mandate, then it's an absolute regime, which is going to go down very quickly and have problems in the country imposed on us, I think it should be re-examined from choice to specific tasks and deploy them, transferred to part of the organisational units of the university, or to colleges. Furthermore, to try to give this law a little more of that state once again, because this is a state law, and part of the content, which is going through the crisis, is getting the impression, at least it's so formalized, that it's not a state, but life is somewhere else. He was partly transferred from Canton or County to entities, and Mr. Minister, as far as I heard him talking about part of the revised amendments, was determined by his opinion and said that the amendments in this context, as recommended, that he all move, under alleged signs at an expensive level, are at a certain point, and 39 is this unacceptable visa-funding of the university. I wouldn't exactly accept how it stands, but I wouldn't accept it, because how it can be transferred from county and canton to entity, so it can be mostly forwarded to the state level, in order to just avoid those findings that the gentlemen of the HDZ Club here pointed out. I listened very closely to them, that they were starting to create three wax systems in this country, and that is the least we need, that is, not the intensity of this law and, otherwise, our thinking and our reform affairs. So I would ask once again that the further course of the debate goes into this context to get back to the right thing, not to be diversified by other things, and that here we try to use two attitudes, or one of two, or to return these suggestions to the Council of Ministers to try to see it or to re-act and try this again. As far as I'm concerned, I consider this a framework law and I'm going to frame myself and set myself up for it. I'll vote anyway not to be a brake, but only in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12224	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, followed by Mr Jović, and Mr Džaferović. That's the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12225	I thank the chairman if he didn't hear me, colleagues and fellow MPs, let me at first, but only, really, to use part of my colleague Ivo Mire Jović's discussion, which in one sentence mentioned European standards and a few dangers. You know that in one context you mentioned it, but it seems to me that it reflects, indeed, the true state of things that we all find ourselves in, and that's that we talk our mouths full of talk about European standards, and, of course, with the full respect of the persuasion, we go sometimes in the shoes of the Himalayas, so it would be good to imagine ourselves a little bit on such things. Of course, I was just using part of the discussion, and you, of course, responded in a different context. A colleague of Moranjkić mentioned earlier that this is one of the reform laws, which we usually declare to be reform and then to get top priority, so if I understand you correctly. I know what reform means in the area of indirect taxation, I know what defence reform means, various OSCE, intelligence, etc. how important reforms are, but I will tell you that I consider the most important reform a reform of higher education. Because this is one, indeed, reform law concerning future generations and the future of BiH, and we don't need the Japanc to say that investment in people may be the most important and rewarding. Why I mention the importance of understanding European in this key reform law. The law that is before us, of course, is not perfect. He's full of inadequacies. I must say that he does not exist in any European country, and if I know well about higher education in European countries and European standards and, of course, norms, this law does not exist in any European country, and that is because no European country is like BiH, and this is the maximum of calming or compromise of a European country with Bosnian Herzegovina. Although, I say, those European standards and that pair of freaks. I can't help but mention the very important financial moment that Mr. Lagumdžija has finely started his discussion, but I don't know why he finally suggested what he suggested, as he suggested, for the simple reason that I know well that he understands that such a law or similar law, which refers to 40 higher education reforms, has absolutely no purpose unless it is followed by an appropriate financial port for reforming higher education. And I want to call this parliament for the first time and warn ourselves that we all ask ourselves what our price is if we miss this offered financial support for higher education reform. If we miss that chance in 15 or a month we have a high school law, without financial support, I don't think that's gonna mean anything to us. I ask you all to ask yourselves, that is, about the price of our alternative. I know this law isn't perfect, but I also ask that all those who find the elements of the threat to anyone here, take care that this is dynamic matter. This is just the beginning of a reform of higher education. First step. Which, of course, isn't even immutable, but this thing doesn't end but is just beginning. And, I pray so much, that I will be the first to raise my hand, that is, against any legal solution that threatens anyone, or people or individual groups in BiH, but let's ask ourselves if we will all be at risk if we miss the chance ahead of us. And, I propose so much, knowing the state of higher education in BiH, in which students at Sarajevo University, who are financed by the Sarajevo Canton, are not only from this area of Sarajevo canton, in which individual cantons, in accordance with existing legal solutions, can establish universities, not counting on whether there are properly respected standards or at least close to European standards from teaching staff to spatial, human resources, therefore, as far as literature, conditions and all those necessary for studies at higher school institutions are concerned. Furthermore, I would like to point out to you that at our universities you learn from textbooks named the economic system SFRY, that by chance someone doesn't think it's history, it still does. We have economic colleges in BiH where students learn from textbooks and literature that carry a date of 70 and 80, it's a time of socialist self-management. Correct me colleagues from economic colleges from all over BiH, if I'm wrong. We have a teaching chamber that has gained its master's degree and doctorate in local socialist conditions, and it should introduce us into European conditions and European norms and European standards. This is only one contribution more to pass this law as soon as possible. And if I say it's not perfect, I do, so I suggest. In our first reading, let us adopt without any changes, respecting the value of many amendments that have been on our table, and until the second reading we find form and find some consensus, yes, we may respect some of the suggestions that have been heard in today's debate and that have been in some amendments, but that we do not lose our pace. The proposal of a colleague, Lagumdžija, would mean a waste of time and a loss of all those chances and would increase the price of the alternative. And I'm asking you colleagues, yes, we're not really going with a story of European standards and a pair of freaks. Let's start once, really define ourselves either for European standards or for freaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12226	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. We have two replicas, first Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12227	First, Mr. Chairman, we are today, today is May 4th, and we have our first reading today. WeMjesecma been told for months that if we don't adopt this for the next seven days, the World Bank's money's gone. So we've been told for months. This is the fourth prolonging. For the first time, we have this law before us, for the first time. And my proposal is, if we as Parliament have a consensus to ask people to give us the green light, not to give up the 41 reform direction, but we want to build things up in the right way, to give us another five or seven days. I don't see why such a thing would be expected in such an unrespectable way. I repeat again. I think making a law like this, without, in principle, taking or leaving us, doesn't lead us forward. On the contrary, it opens up new political dilemmas, and I responsibly claim that it will lead us into even greater chaos in higher education, but I am obliged to do the manetogram to say it, because I intend to go before these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12228	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. The replica was answered by Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12229	As far as I remember, and I looked my eyes at the concept I wrote, and my colleagues and guests listened to me, I began my speech with a special emphasis on this reform. I could say that reformically in the form of irony, and I could say it in the real state that I am looking at, and I think I am one of the serious MPs in this House. What my colleague said, it takes me to that unserious part, yeah, and, I'm sorry she realized that this is reform law, I guess, the one from the isonia. This is the reform law, which I have potentiated and which should have been here a long time ago, and who I am serious about, and therefore I ask, if I get it wrong, to correct my opinion, because I have just pointed out this reformistly to give him the importance and place in these benches and in this country's life. That's why I, I understood differently, if that's what I think, I wouldn't accept that finding.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12230	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word has Mr. Jović. I ask Mr. Jović to respect the fact of time, so Mr. Džaferović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12231	Thank you, Mr. President, now I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the club. I asked that before voting this law in my first reading, I address parliamentarians on behalf of the HDZ-Demokršćanin Club. I'll do my best, and the distinguished teacher gave me the right to use one of the slags when the unscheduled cholelier starts to fail, and then he reduces the steaks whatever happens, the hotel shuts down necessarily. Because the quality has failed. To talk about it here and in this place that we need reform is an illusion. To say that we need modern, modern, advanced education, that we need science applicable in everyday practice and need, to talk about whether we want and want to go to Europe, to apply the standards of Europe in BiH, I have not heard here today that someone is against it. But, my dear colleagues, I wonder. Legal solutions prevent management of the professional part of the Bologna process. I say no. I gave the amendments to the text offered. I would have had a lot to change, but I felt it was necessary to be consistent, understandable, I wanted to prove if we wanted to compromise, then we have to put in that compromise all of what we get and something we lose. Here, on several occasions today, it has been said that a consensus has been reached on certain issues. We haven't been able to make such a bill where only one level of government is losing. The reminders for, in the bag of Dayton negotiations, were a federal constitution, and today we have heard that powers should be passed on to the entity all because the Dayton Constitution says. So which entity is it? And he's called the Federation. If we avoid the adjudication of the Federation, then what is it that Federations in this country? I don't see anything that there's anything that might look like the Federation, because it just doesn't exist. There's been a centralized and unitary body that's trying to do what 42 was done and out of that fear, I'm tough today and with that fear, I'm who I am today. I, therefore, want to say, and we want modern, modern, European schooling based on principles, principles of European education, higher education. We do not support the organization's proposed law, and the professional, scientific part, must and should reflect the Bologna process, which we too advocate. I didn't get up to talk to the amendments. But it seems to me to be a convenient Article 13(3), when mentioning the distinguished representative of Lagumdžija, a proposal from the board of directors of the CIPOK, and I would like to ask just colleagues who are directly involved in the process of working at universities, students and all categories of staff in the higher education institution are represented on the board, so also cleaning women. I don't mind that category of people, don't get me wrong, but it's about the board of directors of the scientific institution we're talking about, if the cleaning lady is going to participate. You know, there's a lot in the law that you should. I didn't point to that. Why? Pressed, undeniable participation of all categories of employees, I agree, but you can't tell me that the employee is not a cleaning woman. And it's about the board of directors of the scientific institution. So let me say, if management is at county level, at entity or state level, it's less important than whether we're for the Bologna process. It cannot be a crucial element in making a solution if we go through modern schooling. We'll have less or more support in finance the worse the administration is, but I said unncipled is done. As we discuss this in 2000, the international community has asked that a university cannot be formed in Zenica, and these days it has formed and is waiting only for the day of application of this law and for the manger. You know, I'm the way of that experience, where I feel deceived. Well, let me have the fear and that's the fear that doesn't allow us or the MPs of this coalition to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12232	I thank Mr. Jović. The word is from Mr. Šefik Džafrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12233	Will you do me a favor and I'll take my place.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12234	I really need to replicate. A colleague, Jović, has just finished his discussion with arguments for the adoption of the law. To change the existing state. I agree that the existing universities could, i.e. that no one prevented them from respecting, or implementing European norms and standards in existing rules, or the way they function, and what they did not, then we should all ask ourselves, means that something was wrong in the system or that there was not enough will, or someone did not understand at all in the county, or did not understand what European standards or norms meant, so we were witnesses, among other things, witnesses of the creation and birth of new universities, even where there were no minimum humanities, without saying some other assumptions that could fit European norms and standards. And, precisely because of what my colleague mentioned at the end, as an example of Zenica, and, if I have to say that, unfortunately, Zenica is not the only one, such universities in several cantons, or county, or even in the RS, we have a little bit more, which is why, in some way, the power of the law should impose European standards, or standards, and I am convinced that we will not have this number of universities with the application of the new law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12235	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I did not really intend to start the debate or prepare for this session to speak on this topic today in Parliament, estimating that 43 here in this room there are more qualified people than I am and if I have been well educated in this law, reading its texts and amendments. I'm familiar with all the dilemmas, I'd say trilems when it comes to this law and I won't talk about the content of the law. I only know that in the BiH Parliament, we must make the law, that it is in the interest of all the peoples, of all the citizens of this country and ultimately in the interests of this country, and that we must respect some of the generally accepted international norms, which BiH has accepted, by signing various conventions, which it has accepted, by opting for a path that BiH should pass, which is, therefore, a European path and a Euro-Atlantic path, therefore, for the path of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. I want to, I decided to answer for the discussion of the moment I heard from the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that in the amendments that are in place here today, there might be some amendments, which on the Constitutional and Legal Commission could be accepted and accepted that they were otherwise formulated or that there was any other approach or more appropriate or appropriate approach at the Constitutional and Legal Commission meeting under these amendments. In order, therefore, to achieve as much consensus as possible here in Parliament, to accept what is realistically acceptable at the moment, and it seems to me that there is some space after the discussion of the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I propose the following. I suggest that we vote today on the law in the first reading, adopt the law in the first reading and then until the second reading, which should be very soon, and I will also tell you when, I suggest that it be, I propose that we assign the Constitutional and Legal Commission to sit again, with representatives of the OSCE Council of Ministers and Mission in BiH, which is most directly involved in the drafting of this law, and then of these amendments, which we have so far on the table, accept what is realistically possible, given the concept that we have set out in the adoption of this law. I'm not about to open a new amendment phase and one simple reason. This law lies in this House, today is the 40th day. March 23rd O.G. he was admitted to parliamentary procedure and all those who had claimed to be serious about this issue, or to make a serious contribution to this issue, had the opportunity and submitted amendments. Those who also claimed to be serious, and thought that they should not intervene on the law and did not submit amendments, I appreciate the unserious opening of the possibility to extend the new amendment phase. And the third thing, which is related to this proposal, is the fact that the BiH Parliament is asked to adopt this law by 7 May. That is, therefore, the data, based on the World Bank's request. I think it is possible that today, therefore, we are voting on the law in the first reading to hold a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, where, once again, with these entities that I have discussed these amendments and then the 6th session of the House of Representatives would be held, if only on this subject. On this occasion, we acted in a similar way and when asked about the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. Then we must vote, we will have to manifest ourselves, and I suggest that then, regardless of the results of the debate in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but here, on the basis of another additional attempt, we try to come up with a solution, which we would vote on this 6th month, so within the deadline that we have received from the World Bank. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12236	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The replica was answered by Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Špirić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12237	Madam Chairman, I just want to say that I am not in order to sit down again, not with the OSCE, not with the OHR, not with anyone, since we all know from chance that there have been enough sitting before the law entered into the procedure and that everything that has been tried to agree is agreed or could not be arranged. So that's not why, and if there is such a motion at the vote, we will be against that proposal. Also, I cannot support the proposal to hold tomorrow's session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and the 6th session of the House for a simple reason, which first I am celebrating Đurđevdan will not attend tomorrow, and neither will half of my club, also celebrate Đurđevdan, so we are not able to attend and ask that it be respected. So, we can't practically until the 7th reading, and we can draw a conclusion, we can ask here today to move that deadline from the 7th to some date in some period where we could do this job that we're expected to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12238	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I thought today that we would create a majority mood to pass the law. And I don't see any reason for anyone, therefore, to see no reason for anyone to go back to the beginning after a good debate on this law. If that's what they're up to, I'm telling you, we're gonna have a hard time getting to this text that's on our desk today. I appreciate everything the OSCE Mission has done, actuating for needs, say Ambassador Bikroft visited BiH to discuss needs with different commissions, with the Council of Ministers, with experts and came up with the starting text. We had a first reading debate today. It takes time to, therefore, at this time that is ahead of us, at the next session we will declare amendments and the law, and if there is a good will here that something that does not derogate the law, is accepted, please, have it, have it defended by some MP clubs to sit together for the next five days. Is that forbidden? The creation of a basis for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to sit again in the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers to return, and they also had a year of gruesome struggles to come out with such a draft of the law. So, I can't, of course, is not an ideal law. People were talking. There's a breach in the law, etc. I didn't want to talk about things I disagree with today. But I'm afraid we'll just reverse the situation if we do as we suggest. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's the right for MPs to vote for, it's the right for MPs to vote against, it's the right for colleagues from other clubs to swallow amendments they think don't derivate the law to fix it, it's all our right, let us take advantage of it. And I won't, of course, support the new session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because it wasn't even on other legal projects, and, of course, if you get into a situation like this and leave it, I'm for college raps. I don't mind the HDZ amendment. And if you ask me, I'll tell you what I think about every amendment, which is why I didn't want to sit on people's backs today. And I won't hesitate to say yes, I agree with this, and I don't agree with this. But I'll do that 45 ways to get to the law. But this is a way that points to something else that is very dangerous when it comes to this law. Here, I'd like to be denied the situation. I thought we were going to create an opportunity today, but for the sake of great, therefore, great remarks by HDZ, if the 7th deadline is and if there are such experts in this room, who are ready in three days to do what the public is professional, scientific and international not in this country for a year, I take off my hat. Come on, don't let us serve this public. Some new acquaintances were born in three days. Where were they so far? Did anyone defend MPs at the time of this law to go to the Council of Ministers, to go to the OSCE Mission to say we think we should do this? Did anyone defend that? And that's why I think a serious job like this has a chance of getting back to the beginning, and I wouldn't want to be involved in that. Congratulations to the Council of Ministers for coming out with the first draft and the international community to help as much as it could on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12240	I have a replica. I mean, I'll be correct in time. So we can't say that there were no amendments and repairs at this stage of the public debate. And it was too much and it was in the council of ministers that we all know what Mr Špirić was like at the Council of Ministers and the public. So we can't introduce one of the principles today and before another, but it's your right. So here were the serious reserves, if there was a readiness, everything was solved. Why do we, I have information that the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples can adopt this text, quite different amendments and we will be able to come to the procedural phase of reconciliation, which can take extra time in this House. So let's review whether we can give together seven to ten days to complete everything together with the House of Nations and to have a law in agreement with both the World Bank and everything, if we're ready, if we will. And, don't, I don't want to take any responsibility for Parliament, let it all go to me. Here, it doesn't have to be on any of the MPs, now I speak responsibly as chairman, on deadlines. We accepted the same procedure requested by the Council of Ministers on the same day, and we respect it as much as possible. And the Constitutional Commission has worked and, therefore, we are working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and don't expect Parliament to have someone real in 2-3 days, I don't think they will, if we solve the problem and I think we all need to go to looking for a solution that we have a law in BiH, to be followed by means, I agree with Mrs Hadžiahmetović here, but it can also not be at the cost of the bad provisions in the law. Gospdin Kunić wanted a word, so Mr. Gligorić. Please, if it's replicas, shall we move in time to indicate?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12241	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, on the Constitutional Commission, we have set ourselves up according to the requirements, or amendments by Mr Raguž and Mr Jović, and there is no way for the Constitutional Commission to discuss this, or to accept it. So, don't delay that from being, please, I've given up on the Constitutional Commission ten amendments. Mr. Novakovioć, I don't know how many amendments he's had, Mr. Ćeman has given up a few amendments, so to find some compromise and to extract the minimum we have now. I said at first that I was very unhappy with this law, I have many objections. If we continue to complicate, and some proposals go in a more complicated direction, please, we will insist on some amendments and the question arises when we will adopt this law. 46 Therefore, I am absolutely against it, I think I can say on behalf of the club against any delay and further bid. I think we've come to one point, which is now possible to accept this law as it is. Everything else will just complicate this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12242	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12243	In the debate, I suggested that it would be a good idea that after the debate, we today join together the first and second readings and thus determine ourselves according to this law. And we've created a lot of anxiety, so far the debate has shown that, and if we leave for a few days, I can tell you we'll just be more nervous and not reach an appropriate solution. I would first of all ask the HDZ Club and the Demohrišćan that they are in the debate today and, if they said, I don't think they should have explicitly said what the minimum of what they can accept is that I completely understand your position and that part of the consensus, which should, of course, be said today. I'm afraid that this time that we should leave out for about seven or ten days, and putting it back into function of the Constitutional and Legal Commission wouldn't be good, because within that commission we've said everything and I don't know what we could say something new, and so I think it's crucial that as a club we should say what a minimum is and under which you can't go, and that we, in the context of the debate or the pause that we're going to do, see what it's minimum we can come up with together, or if we can't, by an act of voting, as a democratic way, solve this issue. I am, so for that, because believe me, whatever we put off, we're going to have new problems that we don't have today, and if we've had a lot of problems today. There's gonna be a new one. I would suggest we go in that direction in terms of resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12244	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. No more replicas. Mr. Ćeman. I don't have any more reports and I'm closing the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12245	My colleagues and colleagues, for principled reasons, I think there's one thing that needs to be determined here. First of all, there is a business possibility, of course, that this home is, to say the instructions or whatever word was used in the Rules of Procedure, to any of its working bodies, or to the competent commission, to prepare a new report. From that point of view, therefore, the proposal from counterpart Džaferović, thinking that a new deadline for the constitutional-legal commission cannot be disputed, procedural. On the other hand, the experience we had with the law, the Framework Law on Fundamental Education, and the Constitutional and Legal Commission also says that in some constructive way, an additional dialogue can come to a solution. I personally, and even to my colleagues in the Constitutional Commission, would not wish for the effort of this kind, although here we now have it in this House session, because it was a very difficult task. We, thank God at that time in a satisfying way, at least now it's over. I'm saying I wouldn't wish us a new experience like that, but personally, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and a member of this house, I wouldn't run away from it, if there was an assessment here that it could be in a procedural and essential sense perhaps a step forward to reach a harmonised solution. What is true is what my colleague Kunić, Professor Kunić, said. I, indeed, personally, have also drawn a significant number of 47 amendments, which we have invested and which are of a principled nature. I withdrew, not with the belief that I was wrong, on the contrary, these amendments are almost identical to those that we previously accepted on the basis of the basic education law, so it's almost paradoxical that we didn't have consent about them now, but I pulled the amendments to create climate, to bring the solution closer and to get to the law. Why am I bringing this up? I mention that, therefore, here it is on my part, and some other step forward, so that we can come up with a better solution, but despite all that, I, if I appreciated this home, wouldn't run away, I wouldn't finally have the right as a member of the Commission, to maybe try again. If this audience values it useful. So, I got up to say, we can't, we made a precedent, he's finally not precedentd, he's a business possibility and from that point of view, at least we shouldn't say that there's no room, possibly an additional debate. There is, if we appreciate it necessary. If we don't appreciate this audience, then we don't need to get into that interphase. I am ready for both and the other and the third, as I am today ready to make known the principles. I'm not, I'm saying I went into the discussion special, because no matter how much everything gets added up and taken away, this seems to be the least bad solution right now, and that's why it seemed to me that the approach we made on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as incomplete as it may seem at first glance, is, however, very principled. I understand colleagues from HDZ and others who have discussed, perhaps this is one interphase, perhaps it makes sense to support what we have come to, what the Council of Ministers has come to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12246	Goaspodin Jović, do you insist on the replica? I think this is what Mr. Ćeman said the explanation, and if you want me to, I won't deny you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12247	Which I wouldn't say when it's true. Just to remind the Honorable Vice President, we have points 10 and 11. Law on NOS and transmission of el. Energy. What was done with the law? If we're going to be principled, so, I can't listen to it. The second thing I want to say here, we've already been told, my dears, when we tried to intervene the holy letter of the law, the decimal cannot be changed. I hope there's a lot of steam in here that hears what I'm saying. It's impossible to change a decimal. That's why we didn't react. And to say, has anyone seen here on the media thinking of ours? Why won't we accept this bill? You're not, because it's inaccessible to come to the media and say it. Which compromises were reached. 40 were amendments, none technically went through. There were four hands against each other, and two of them are in favor.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12248	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Mr Špirić, so the word has been made by Minister Safet Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12249	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think I'd get a chance to replicate. I know we've made a decision for the transmission and for the single transmission network operator. Remember why it was. And then you raped the situation. And that's when HDZ wanted, no matter how much it cost to go to Mostar. So we'll see what we get, whether we get better text, or we get an old version of the law, and we lose two months. Let me get this straight. No, with me you always have an open dialogue with 48 maximum courtesy. I said today let's use our time on your amendments for the next five, ten, fifteen days. I didn't comment negatively on any amendments. So, we can business, constitutional-legal commission, people have given up the amendment all to support the initial text and create an atmosphere for this debate. All amendments will come to the agenda. So, everyone will come to the agenda. On the one on which a compromise is reached within this second reading home, I suppose it would also come to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but only that we don't take a step back. So, my desire to get to the law, and I know we made a precedent on NOS, and you know for what reasons. Because no one had the strength to defy the end. I'll be honest with you, and I'll see how long those who insisted on it will come to their solution, and I've talked and warned. So, I don't mind being in Mostar, if it's cheaper, that someone doesn't get me wrong, but I guess here's the belief that this passing of information from a head to a place where it's slow to go, well, here today we're going to have a debate, I'm very interested in whether all of you who brought it back to the beginning, stayed on the same principles, and then I saw and then I talked to the portable companies and no one had reservations. I've seen even, Malta not ten Serbian hands for the proposal. Here, today I'll see what made them realize they were wrong. And don't really resent what I'm replicating. I'm in favour of solving the problem, not whether it's a proposal from the HDZ Club, the SDS, the SNSD or someone else. And, please, so I didn't want to hurt any amendments to any of the motions, but to leave time, if someone tells me today that I need to come from Banja Luka to do what I can today. Then we have to wonder what this people are paying for here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12250	Here, Mr. Špirić, this was worth a line. I'll hold back. Mr. Zorić. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12251	I'm all about what Mr. Špirić said about HDZ, as a rapist of something I reject as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12252	The word has a minister, Mr. Safet Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12253	Well, there were certain questions here, misunderstandings, etc. about participation in the adoption of the text of the law. I can responsibly argue here that from the start of the commission's work, it has been attended by representatives of the bridge university, the predictor, even in Strasbourg in the final, final determination of the text of this law, representatives of entity ministries, there have been sessions with cantonal ministers, etc. So I don't stay here. Therefore, there was absolutely the ability of participation in the adoption of this law. As for these some professional improvements, of course, those through the amendment approach can be, of course, done, just to say that, however, this so-called. An integrated university, where the university becomes a legal entity something that is a liability. I can tell you this information that's been heard, that some universities have returned, however, are some, in order to say controversies about it. However, they are also used in Austria, except in Macedonia and it seems to me in Serbia, there are certain dilemmas. These things, mostly, as far as they're concerned from the international community, we checked them out, too. 49 With regard to professional and, I say, improvements in respect of the rector, it is quite possible to accept it through the amendment approach. Also, we've given one better variant than it is in the 18th term. But it's also some kind of compromise, so it's a language formulation, but it's said it can, but it doesn't have to. So she's not an imperative norm and, what I'd like to say, also as an information, just finished the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The result is also similar to that of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives and only one new amendment has been adopted, which is 37th, in fact, to Article 37 of Amendment 9 which says: The Dedicated Ministry establishes a Co-ordination Committee on Higher Education as an advisory body for higher education, which is the rector of all universities in BiH, which decides by consensus. So there's no difference in access either. I would appeal to the MPs, that, however, we respect these deadlines, because the new session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives, it's my impression, because I've been doing nothing in it since the beginning can change anything. What was in action, which apparently proved through this debate, is that there are only conceptual differences, which, of course, no one will change their approach and politically certain calculations of people who would like to, I don't know that there's no law at all for some ten reasons. I would therefore ask the MPs to finalise this exhaustive one-year work of these many committees, then the two-month work of the Council of Ministers, in the way of a commitment to the statement of these principles, and would also support Parliamentarian Gligorić's proposal to do as before, in relation to the previous law, it is about basic and middle education, where, also on the same day, we had a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12254	I thank Mr. Halilović. I'm the one who concluded the argument. So let me sum it up. We're on the agenda and the Rules of Procedure at first reading, and I have to respect that. Now we have already received information on what I pointed out to be in different texts adopted. The text, which is not just our responsibility, is a normal parliamentary procedure and the right of MPs to intervene in the commission phase on the text of the law, and that's what happened. My opinion, and it's on the trail of certain suggestions that have been here, so that we can, I speak as one variant. I'll respect it, I told the Rules of Procedure. If this proposal is not accepted, we will vote on this law in the first reading because it is on the agenda. Therefore, to set an additional deadline within seven to ten days to agree with the House of Nations in a way that is accepted in the same text over the next seven days. Otherwise, we will have texts of different and consent procedures. So, and this was a proposal and in some way opened by Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Ćeman as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, he also felt that there was an opportunity to further some things debated. I suggest we make a statement about this proposal, and if we don't, we move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. It's a business possibility. There's a new deadline for Dom to set. We can, he's up to 15 days, I suggest it be seven days. It's on the trail of these conclusions, which were and I suggest that the House be made aware of this proposal that has been made here by several MPs. I'm asking you to plead. 50 Ten to Three. Can we leave at 3:00? We're starting work. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Belkić, do you want to comment on the break?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12255	So, I'll do it very briefly. The BiH party, of course what the Rules of Procedure envisions requires that we make a statement and that is something that is understood. And if the law gets support in the first reading, we suggest that we both make a statement on amendments and on the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12256	So I put in the first proposal for an additional report, within the framework of the amendments that have been tabled, because we have done so, because it was a proposal of several MPs. I ask you first to make a statement about this proposal. In addition, the possibility of additional information within seven days. Not by the board of directors. That's what we have without any additional amendments. So we have 40 amendments. Please let us be clear about this proposal. Please vote now. We'll do it again. Please. Is that my problem, Mr. Kunić? Am I on time? I početo presidencies when I agreed to continue the session. Why? Am I stopping it from happening in three hours? I'm not interrupting. Thank you very much. Please vote. Come forward now. I find that the conclusion has not been adopted. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Tell Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12257	So the first proposal was. On the basis of what we had here today at the debate that the Council of Ministers is being made manifest, to propose changes and complement us on the basis of these today's discussions of laws that we have before us. Great. Because the minister won't. We can figure it out, even if it doesn't. But here, if the minister won't and they won't vote for nothing now, the second alternative, Mr. Raguž, is to modify that first proposal of yours to open up the possibility based on this today that the amendment can be re-reacted within a certain time before the second reading, because we already had, we have opened up several times in conclusion the possibility of the amendment functioning. After the first reading. I made the proposal, these two suggestions. I took it out. My suggestion, and we need to get to the bottom of it. I've given you two options. First, let the Council of Ministers declare itself and secondly open up the possibility that on the basis of this, hearing all of this now, eventually opens up the possibility of amendments being made in the next few days until the second reading, until the second meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or which is already in charge that we can, in which case we are ready to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12258	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm putting this motion to a vote. A new report within seven days, with the possibility of new amendments. Please plead. 51 Vote now. You have time to vote. So this proposal, the conclusion, also did not get the required majority. I thank the MPs. We move to a statement on point 3. Law in the first, Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH in the first reading. Please vote now. So, I find devoting 39 MPs. For it was 31, abstention 2, versus 6. A proposal for a framework law on higher education for BiH in first reading was adopted. We've exhausted business opportunities. Since he's been playing 40 amendments, I don't think there are any conditions for today's discussion in the second reading. Thank you. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Well, there's no agreement that we can go into another reading today. Well, there's no vote. I'll interrupt the session. As chairman, I am responsible for the work of the session and there is no condition for today, after such a debate to be discussed in another reading. Yes, and the College, with respect for the Rules of Procedure, will determine everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12259	I ask you to put the motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12260	I suggested this, I explained. I've done business so far. There are no conditions for discussion today in the second reading. I won't put it on. Well, because we don't have the conditions. We have 40 amendments and we have seen what debate today was here and what you want by force of the law today. We will declare the amendments in accordance with the procedure adopted by this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12261	On the fifteenth of the amendment, no problem at all, we can plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12262	Well, we can't make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12263	That's different if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12264	I consider as president that there are no circumstances for second reading. It's my responsibility and I'll take it. Let me, Mr. Belkić. I've been very friendly. I've led everything today. I've made it possible for everyone. I've respected what's on the agenda. I've denied anyone. I finished the law and the first first reading adopted goes further into procedure and everything is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12265	Please be nice and listen to me. I suggested one thing. So such a practice exists in this House. This law has received great support. So, argument over. So, you saw now that the law has received great support. There are very few amendments, and there are no official amendments to which there is no reason not to make a statement. Why are you running away from it? 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12266	Please don't make us polymize. I don't think it's right. I respected every suggestion of a conclusion. There have been no proposals for further report and the possibility of getting out of this situation and don't go to another extreme now. I mean, it's not right. Well, don't. Well, you can be a member of the College. I've moved on to point four.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12267	Ladies and gentlemen, I really, really respect the position of chairman, respect the Rules of Procedure, but as we respect the position of chairman and he must respect what clubs and MPs think. So, you think, since the session is in progress, the agenda item is not closed, there are no conditions. We can't do what I think. We can't do what you think. If yours is confirmed, we'll go to the fourth item of the agenda. Please, that's why I think that, in order to respect the Party for BiH Club and the other MPs, we must plead. So let's get this straight. If that doesn't work, we'll go to the fourth item of the agenda. I don't mind, but don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12268	Mr. Špirić, don't, it's clear we don't see for ourselves. I was collegiate. All right, we heard. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12269	On behalf of the Club, I suggest that the agenda be respected, the adopted agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12270	I respected him. This law is not on the agenda in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12271	We're not looking for anything else. We're not going to plead on that, either.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12272	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I went out for a pay phone here as a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives College to speak my mind on the issue. I want it to be made public. So, I think Mr. Belkić's proposal should be put to the vote. That's my attitude. Let's make it public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12273	What I'm about to say to myself is, I'm surprised we're even letting this debate run between the leading parties, in one way, which, least of all, takes us nowhere. I still decided to answer and try to do everything in my power not to go further into the sun without need. You have here on one capital law, a radical consensus between parties within the ruling coalition and I do not want to open any deeper political issues at all, but please, it is a law on higher education, which is very delicate, which has a lot of questions, which, unfortunately, some people were opposed to, because they believe that some national interests are threatened, a respectable number of people. I was against it, because I think this is a bad law, by many elements, that can be upgraded with one calm tone, only that there's a little more patience. For various reasons, we were 53 against it. But now look for another reading, in such an atmosphere, I would ask you as serious, as colleagues, if you hadn't gone into it and not to remain on the appeal of Mr. Raguž, you're absolutely right, I'm giving you full support, you're only according to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say Article 95(2). That the debate will begin, if Dom decides, what counterpart Belkić is called on, and now they say, such as Mr Džaferović, I want the House to decide, but it is unnecessary. Whatever the House decides, you have, under Article 96. Position 1 as chairman, quote: "The second reading is about the debate on the proposed amendments, following the order of the members to which they relate. Second sentence of Article 1 96. In the event that there are an extremely large number of amendments, the chairman may order another way of debate." In other words, we here unnecessarily fight, which leads us nowhere. The chairman of the Rules of Procedure has the right to order this in a different way now because of a large number of amendments. Is there anyone here that wants to fight on purpose? I'm sorry, my colleague Munib, but I really think we should protect the chairman in a business way so we don't go any further without voting. That's what the man said right away. He has the right to say because of a large number of amendments, protecting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12274	Please, I've said everything nicely, I've said everything exactly. I said according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12275	...injured nor was my way of speaking such a kind that it created an unhealthy atmosphere. The unhealthy atmosphere, the unhealthy atmosphere was created by a way of discussion. We can look at this stenogram of what who was saying and how he was saying. So, the assessment of the Party for BiH Club was such a natural that this law can be supported and by a trace of it we have paeded the thing. I'm just asking to be answered by the club. Can you or can't? We've had so in practice so far, had such a practice so far. If the chairman appreciates that the Rules of Procedure cannot, the Club will not insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12276	I think he has a business basis for what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12277	Then it's your responsibility. You're publicly saying you can't and okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12278	No, I didn't say no, I said there are circumstances for a correct statement about this number of amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12279	But you have to rely on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12280	Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is amended in
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12281	Okay, the other two members think differently, but let's accept what you say, but your responsibility. I have the instruments to fight here now, you say you can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12282	I didn't propose a fight, but I simply asked you to respect what I said. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Did I deny anyone in the debate? I called on what Mr. Lagumdžija said immediately and suggested that because of the way today's debate was being held, as chairman, I would estimate that it wasn't Wednesday that we pleaded today on the amendments, and we didn't have an obligation. What was mandatory, I respected as chairman and the law was adopted in the first reading. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12283	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think we forgot our basic function to work in the interest of the good man BiH. So I ask you what this means if we extend it by seven days to the bank, what does it mean, if the bank will accept it? That's one thing, and what does it mean if we're working on the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Belkić's proposal? I mean, we have no right, on the contrary, to not play with the interest and good of the BiH man. And I want to talk in calm heads and normal thinking, without tension, fear and hatred, and get out of this situation. So I suggest, Mr. Chairman, you explain one variant, so this one you've been saying in seven days and let Mr. Belkić suggest this other and decide on one that will not harm the citizen, or the man of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12284	I signed up for the replica. So, the explanation I gave in no way raises any interest in BiH, because we didn't talk about deadlines here. When I spoke for seven days, I talked about proposals that were for an additional report. I claim to be moving within the framework of the Rules of Procedure and within the deadlines. By 7:00, it's still time. At this moment, we had no conditions to respect the arguments of those who wanted full and rooted reform around this law and on them is also a responsibility, as is my responsibility. And don't transfer responsibility to me here now so I don't take care of the interests of BiH and the citizens. He's a replica to me. Mrs. Palavrić before, then Mr. Potočnik, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12285	So, the replica is from the moment Mr. Lagumdžija spoke. I can understand that Mr. Zorić says we will stick to the agenda and well. However, if we interpret the Rules of Procedure and do not be inconclusive and say that the debate on members is held in Article 95(2) if the House so decides. Yeah. But Dom needs a chance to make that decision. Mr. Belkić suggested that the House be declared, to see if the home would decide to move to a statement on members and I think Mr. Chairman that this is important to be preserved, because each of us will once appreciate that it is time to propose another reading, because if we introduce this practice we will never be able to, if someone from the College, actually the chairman does not decide to propose another reading, we will never be able to propose another reading. 55 I, the second correction of Mr. Lagumdžija's false allegations. If the chairperson is to be appointed, Article 96(1) of point 1 does not apply to what is now happening, but the second reading consists of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments, the next order of members to which they relate, and then the chairman only has the right to give a different timetable. He can say we're going to start from the middle, we're going to start this, that's what this applies to, and not the situation we're going to be in, and my collegiate suggestion is, let's put Mr. Belkić's proposal to vote, and say again, we devalue ourselves, how the home will be able to decide, if there's no way to decide, the proposal exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12286	Replication away, Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12287	Mr. Raguž, I did not say that you are working against the interest of BiH, I call on all of us sitting here to work constructively in the good and in the interest of the BiH man, I feel so. If someone else doesn't feel it, it's his problem. And, so I ask you, and explain to me one and another time, but once again, whoever we choose can't be contrary to the good and the interest of a man, Mr. Raguž, you could listen to me when I speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12288	I'm very good at listening. I can repeat any word. You know, I have a little different traits, so I can follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12289	Great. So I'm asking you to get out of this situation, so we don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12290	I accept that suggestion, I took it. Thank you very much, and I'm going to set up a recess to consult on all this before we come forward in the end. Is that okay? It's shorter. I'm entitled to it as chairman. Thank you very much. After consulting with the heads of the parties in the House of Representatives and with the kolegij, we continue to work in a way that I am now putting forward a proposal from Mr Belkić, which he gave here on behalf of the Party for BiH for a statement on whether the Parliamentary House of BiH will enter into the discussion of this law in the second reading at today's session. [[PAUZA]] Please state that and vote now. So, with 28 for, 16 Federations, 12 Republika Srpska, 8 against, abstention 1. The zastupničkli of Representatives accepted that we consider the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education and in a second reading. I am opening a debate on the amendments, which have been delivered here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. I answer for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12291	The word is Mr. Martin Raguž, Chairman of the House. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12292	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here there is a report from the Commission in the time laid down by the Rules of Procedure, 40 or 41 amendments have been made. 20 from Mr. Ivo Mire Jović, 20 from me personally. Some of these amendments overlap, they're actually identical. Here we now have the opportunity to fix the text of the law in the debate, here we heard today from the MPs, whether in the parliamentary majority or opposition, there are certain open issues and the possibility of improvement, namely that the law is not consistent, in a way that consistently implements reform, in accordance with European standards, in the sense that BiH, in a unique, standardised manner, regulates these issues, which are important for higher education. So, why are we at the club opting for this kind of conjecture? Because Mr Ivo Mire Jović's amendments offer a consistent opportunity not to make differences in BiH, not in relation to legal competences, not in relation to different treatments, but that BiH, through attractive bodies, whether it is the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the CIPOK or some other bodies, and that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I particularly stress this, this amendment means that it brings laws and regulates this area. If this concept were to be accepted, therefore, by a consistent and rounded and standardised process of reforming higher education, I can step down from a significant number of my amendments, that is to say, to facilitate the debate in this House and, here, to test whether we, indeed, are now the ones who take that responsibility on this European concept. If not, the amendments I have offered, means, if there is no willingness for the BiH state to edit this space uniquely, and here we have heard this rhetoric that it is, so now we have the opportunity to see, if there is no possibility of consistent compliance with the Constitution, these are the amendments that I have proposed, so define yourself, either pure reform or between consistent compliance with the Constitution. Thank you very much. A debate on amendments, a second reading. Mrs. Palavrić, second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12293	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to, if the minister would like to make a statement on the proposed amendments. I think it would make it easier for us to work on this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12294	Mr. Halilović. If you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12295	At this stage, of course, I can only accept amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They are an integral part of the legal text. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12296	I thank Mr. Halilović. Who else does? So he doesn't want anyone to participate in the debate anymore. Mr. Potočnik answered his word, so Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12297	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think and I am convinced that BiH's path is to integration into Europe, and that is why integration is more attractive than such, not centralised, but integration to what level, in which way, we should know 57 ourselves and decide. The HDZ's proposal to edit itself at an expensive level is acceptable to me, and I think that road is the right path, so attached to that dilemma of yours, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12298	I thank Mr. Potočnik, words by Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12299	Unfortunately, Mr. Raguž, I didn't understand you very well, so I'd like you to clarify. I thought I understood you until I heard the minister, who says he practically rejects these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12300	Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12301	Unfortunately, that's right. So now I don't understand, since we have your amendments and Mr. Jović's amendments in front of us. A small number of people here right now, and I've analyzed a lot of this, can monitor what your amendments are and the Jovićev are, so we don't start hitting, accepting or rejecting those amendments. How did you come up with that now? Should we go along with your amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12302	I suggest we go according to Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12303	So, let's follow his amendments. It is, to plead for or against his amendments. Shall we open the debate and then plead?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12304	Well, I opened the argument, Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. It's really how I experienced it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12305	This is simply unacceptable for me to have you withdraw your amendments, for Jović to remain with his amendments, for the minister to come out and say that there is nothing to do, and at the same time in Mr Jović's amendments there are a lot of states, and Mr Minister has assured us that this is going to be a law to strengthen the state in this area, so allow, for every reasonable one, this is a little confusing and that you have obviously entered here something that I fear will not bring us far, but later I will discuss the metrics, when I see how this debate of yours is moving. I just can't see the ruling coalition where it is. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12306	Mr. Lagumdžija, I thank you, but please, since there have been some suggestions just now, I will also say open questions, visas to my way of holding the session as chairman. I think I've now respected everything that's been sought here. If there are any more open questions to conduct the session, would you please say so? So there isn't. Now it's a debate. I opened the debate and everyone has the opportunity to say what they think about the amendments. The second is reading and the debate is under way. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12307	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to remind the chairman of Article 96, paragraph 1, which is mentioned here, about, in fact, not education, but a reminder, therefore, of the possibility of discussing these amendments. Here, you can look at it yourself, he says, in case there are an extremely large number of amendments, and we can see that there seem to be an extremely large number of amendments, the chairman may order another way of debate, ensuring that all political opinions can be correctly expressed. In fact, I'm talking about the need to approach the amendment in order now. We heard, here's an opinion, maybe it makes sense, you've called to discuss amendments now, see if, really, there's a possibility, right here today, that we're talking about amendments first on principle, what does that mean? I'm, of course, here's what most of this is about, so if it could be done today, I repeat, when it could be done, and it seems very questionable to me, to perform a series of these powers at the state level. And, perhaps, let's say, you could continue to conduct this debate, because you and your colleague Jović have directed a series of amendments to this particular issue, is it possible to do so at the state level? Let's say it did or didn't, depending on it, then we'd have an easier job to say about these amendments. I know it will be paradoxical, perhaps today, that a number of MPs who are essentially for such proposals, perhaps for practical reasons, would be able to define ourselves differently, so this is when amendments are a matter of principle. You, therefore, have, by me, on the basis of this amendment, two possible times. It's one thing to start chronologically from amendments to amendments as they enter into the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12308	About running the session, I asked if there were any objections.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12309	I said don't educate, but I remind you, it matters to me, here, I'll finish. I was going to say that if there's a willingness here to think that way, it'll be easier to bring the procedure to an end. But if you don't think you should take advantage of this advantage, then, of course, you'll be leading it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12310	Replica Mr. Zorić. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12311	I'm replicating and a little protesting. Why does someone call upon the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which belongs only to the chairman, and when the chairman called on him, everyone defended him. So let's let the chairman use his business powers. I know the result of the vote. I guess you do, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12312	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. That's why I asked if he had any further objections to this second reading of the debate and, possibly, voting. There have been no objections, Mr. Ćeman, I think it is logical to answer you in this way, because I have called on that provision that you have called on before and suggested that because of the very importance of these issues, there are no circumstances for serious debate today, but a different opinion prevailed, and I have accepted that opinion, which has been expressed here, but I have warned before, so the reform gentlemen of this kind have been carried out in many European serious and stable countries for several years. If you think that in an hour and 15 minutes, we can do this. No problem, and you can tell your views about the debate itself, Mr. Ćeman, and the club's views, and don't call on the chairman here right now. The chairman made his own views clear on the club's laws and views, as well as on how to conduct the session. So there is an ongoing debate on amendments. Who wants to move on? Mrs. Leho. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12313	...related to the amendments you have submitted to the chairman and representative Ivo Miro Jović. Amendment II — You intervene according to the article as you wrote 10. The same amendment was given by Mr Jović, and it reads: - Establishment, merger as well as termination of the work of a higher school institution is regulated by the provisions of this law. This merger that you are erasing with your amendments and Mr. Jović refers exclusively to Mostar. We don't have any other city. dobrro, but it's still two cities, and Mostar is one city. One is the only Mostar. So it's in two entities. Since this applies exclusively to Mostar, the University of Bridge and the University of Djamal Bedic. If this merger is excluded and deleted, then the University of Džemal Bijedić, who has his own history in Mostar, will be closed as a higher school institution, this second one cannot remain, right. And then it puts the teachers there and the students, and so on. We won't vote for this merger to go away, because we want everyone sitting at the table as bridgers and agreeing what our higher school facility will look like. And that's the only reason the esteemed and esteemed colleague, Raguž, is why we won't agree to that. We voted in favour of the law as proposed by the Council of Ministers. It says there can be one official language. The Constitution says they're all three languages. When the statutes of this high school institution are passed, then we will also negotiate two languages in Mostar so that Mostar, who has been known for centuries for his specific culture where there was room for everyone and for everyone's language, will not die. We're not gonna let that happen either. So my discussion is going this way, so these two amendments, I ask you not to hope that I, as Mostarka, vote for them. Thank you very much. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12314	I thank Mrs. Leho. As far as I'm concerned, this amendment has nothing to do with Mostara, nor can it be adjudicated because it is said that the establishment and termination of the work of a higher school institution will be regulated by the provisions of this law. It means how you handle it. Niko one's talking, and I really don't think that argument suits you, but it's your right to set yourself up according to this amendment. So it's just meant for these things to be regulated by this law, nothing else. There was no particularization. Who wants to move on? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12315	Mr. Chairman, I am extremely sorry that we are discussing such a law, I am obliged to say this, here I am indeed now, you have brought us into this situation, I want to use every opportunity as an MP to contribute to any small shift in the law, which, no matter how it ends, will not lead us where there could have been a little more understanding and mutual respect. There was an unanswered question sent to the minister to tell us what Article 18 means. The law and I insist that the minister answer me what Article 18 means. – high school have the right to have Roman small or Roman 8. I suppose, which says that higher education institutions have the right to define as official language and in the official language one or more, reads with me before, and I guess more, probably the foreigners were knocking, the languages of the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I repeat once again, it cannot be done without this House that the minister does not answer us correctly and that it does not specify what this means. Does this mean that the decision of a higher education institution can determine only one language and that it is supported by this law and that students and teachers are obliged to communicate only in that one language, regardless of which university it is financed from the source of taxpayers, state or unfortunately some other lower levels of their income. So you owe us an answer to this question that's been asked and there's no answer just through the amendments. And now through Mr. Ivo Mire's amendments. The first amendment that defines the competent one, which speaks of the category machine, I wouldn't say much about it, I don't think he's that relevant, so I'm not going to plead on every amendment. The second amendment speaks of the establishment and ceases to change Article 10 and what is required by this amendment is that the existing Article 10 regulates the establishment, merger and termination of higher education institutions. This amendment prevents the legal merger of several universities. Maybe tomorrow some universities about the coyotes we are today and we don't dream of being able to connect, maybe they'll decide on a merger. However, this law, by apologising the adoption of Mr. Jović's amendments, would make it impossible to merge. In other words, I do not think this amendment should be accepted because the merger of the law should not be prevented. I mean, if you rephrase it this way, because it says here that the establishment and termination of the work of a higher education institution is regulated by the provisions of this law, and in the original text was the establishment, merger and termination of work. I mean, I just don't agree with it. 61 The amendment of the third Mr. Jović who says, relating to Article 13 and speaking, I now have a little problem here so help me in my business. So I do not agree with such an amendment, because this amendment suggests that a practical stand be removed that says that a competent institute body is given to the statutes of the higher education institution in accordance with the law. I fully understand the intensity and spirit of what Mr. Jović has proposed and I would agree that instead of erasing it, he said that consent to the statute of the higher education institution is given by the competent authority in accordance with the law, to reject the word entityically. Well, that's why I'm talking about the amendment. If Mr. Jović were here, you're looking, I think someone has to give consent to the higher school, the consent of a higher school institution financed from a pair of taxpayers. But by erasing this, I follow the spirit of your amendments practically deleted, not to be entityically, you've erased the consent given by the entity ministry. So you deleted the consent given by anyone. In other words, I think your amendment III would be acceptable if it was procedurally possible to respect your suggestion not to delete the whole point 5, but to simply delete the word "entity" that the body is just standing in accordance with the law. Article 13(5), your amendment number III. No problem, I'm just, so, you keep telling yourself, I'm not saying this is the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12316	Please respond for your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12317	So if you put a competent body, then you solved the problem you wanted to set. It's a good thing we're not convincing each other. amandman IV — Article 13(5), is your amendment referring to paragraph 5, not to the sentence
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12318	Please, Mr. Jović, allow counsel Lagudmžija to speak for himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12319	You seem to have forgotten your amendment? Miro is Article 13(5), not Article 13(3). The amendment is number III. Your amendment, the Roman Three, relating to the position, Article 13(5). So if you were to delete the word "entity" then what you wanted would be achieved and that would be acceptable, but in the way you formulated it, I think it's unacceptable. Amendment IV to your Annex IV to Article 20(2). We're talking about what it is, you wanted this today, what do you want now? I don't understand. Where am I? No, this is the second reading of the amendments. Well, this is a discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12320	I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to interfere with the MP and to stick to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to second reading. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12321	So according to the second reading, I'm discussing amendments. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12322	Here's me protecting your rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12323	Is this right? So Amendments IV, V, VI and VII Mr. Jović, I think it's good and we can accept it because it speaks of transferring appropriate powers to the state level. In Amendment VII, we have a little problem. In Amendment VII, your first part of the amendment relating to Article 5(1) is acceptable, and the second part that is serious and I fear is unacceptable. Amendment VIII, we think it's good, it's just, I draw your attention to Mr. Jović that if you throw out the word "entity" that it stays in this text that it's the Ministry of Finance, you're thinking at the state level, and the Ministry of Finance at the state level is called the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, so it can be a little inconsistencies when this is accepted. Otherwise, the IX amendment you gave, I don't think it's acceptable for one simple reason that your amendment changes Article 37 to so much that one body that is an advisory character is asked to decide by consensus. A body that is an advisory character about its nature does not decide by consensus. Well, you have a coordinating board that's an advisory body and he, I think. But then it doesn't work out this way. In Amendment X, which you have also added to this is not acceptable as Amendment IX, because the Council should not, that the advisory body decides by consensus. Amendment XI, we have a little problem. For us, it is acceptable in your amendment to these four items except for the first. Namely, the merger cannot be deleted according to this. However, these other attitudes are acceptable. So Amendment XI would be acceptable to us if we cast out the first position of this amendment. Amendment XII, where we also have a little problem. It is acceptable in Article 40 to change and to read, the first two positions of your amendment which says – that in order to...more efficiency and efficiency in full higher education, a fund for the financing of higher education (hereinafter referred to as the Fund) has been established and the Council of Ministers has appointed a board of directors to manage the Fund. That's acceptable. However, this should be harmonised then your section 1 to 6. It is unacceptable for us because I believe that the members of this 40th law that you have that what is given here is the jurisdiction of the entity funds, it is well structured and it could be at the state level in the way that you are, there is no need to explain to you what the reason here is to introduce that principle of consensus 3 times 2 members of the constituent people, which makes it impossible, there is some collective discrimination against those who are prominent scientific workers, and they do not belong to the order of one constitutive people. Amendment XIII is fully acceptable. Amendment IV, I think it is unacceptable that the CIPOK cannot decide by consensus, because the nature of the CIPOK is not a political nature, but a professional one and then perhaps a little surprise Mr Jović 63 amandman XV, XVI, XVII, XIX, XIX and XX I will not comment on you, they are completely acceptable to us. Consistent with your amendment, and I think that if this was done to make one serious move here in creating a space for rounding up appropriate funds that would go into one, on the one hand to a higher quality, and on the other hand to a greater possibility of finding funds to fund students and student standards that are completely neglected by this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12324	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. The replica of Mrs. Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12325	...a esteemed colleague, I actually think this is more about an incorrect quote. First, I object to the Minister's appointment on Article 18, because we are now in second reading on amendments and I don't think there's any point in looking for interpretation now. After this story and commentary of the amendment, I was miraculously rereading the commission's report to see when Mr Lagumdžija has a really good idea and a good formulation of the amendment, to see how many people have submitted the amendment and why they've been rejected. That's not one of them. So the amendments came so quickly today. As for calling the Minister by Article 18, if we care about the precise formulation of why it didn't go with the amendment, although I personally think that the Constitution, as is the fact, is an older document than any law, including this, why you didn't go with personal initiatives, amendments and corrections. Why is the second reading seeking the interpretation of the Minister by one point of the Framework Law that we have already declared? I think it's actually a waste of time, because you've explained to us the amendments of the HDZ and Demohriščanin Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12326	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr. Zorić, so Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12327	Well, here's what I'd like to say about what Mr. Lagumdžija has elaborated, I'm just going to touch some things. If Mr Jović has suggested that the CIPOK committee decides a consensus, Mr Lagumdžija has just confirmed it. If there are professional people in the CIPOK, then I guess they'd have to think the same thing professionally and equally. Or there will be three unprofessional and six professional ones in that CIPK. If they're professional, then we should have a consensus and think the same thing about it. Unless it's a political body. Therefore, it would be good to check the profession well and to establish it professionally. You can't think of nine of us as two plus two is equal to five, and three of us think that two plus two is equal to four. So he can't. It's a waist. It's a waist. And as for the merger, I am a colleague of Fatima and not to tell a friend, but Mr. Zlatko was disappointed. I thought it wasn't about bridge universities and universities, but that's one thing in law normal, etc., and they've already seen pictures of who's going to be employed, who's going to be 64 secretaries, who's going to do administrative work. It really disappointed me. 'Cause for me, here I am as a professor thinking like this, so isn't merger a founding. What do you mean, it's not? It's a founding. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12328	All I'm asking you to do is answer your word. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12329	So if the word merger was thrown out, the other words would form and close. That way we could close three universities and form one. So it's a merger. But in fear that he will remain a university in Mostar in Croatian, he will leave it and the competent body will already know when and by what date the University of Džemal Bijedić and the University of Mostar will connect. So this was confirmed to us by these colleagues of mine. I didn't believe it was true.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12330	Yeah. Don't worry. Come on, fine. Can I make it easy for you?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12331	No, I'm not. Why is the question of language being asked? Well, because we don't understand each other. If I go into the classroom as a math teacher and say length, is that measure or is that a geometric term? It is called a measure in Serbian length, and in Croatian geometric terms. So in Croatian, that Serbian length is said to be the length, and in Serbian, that Croatian length is said along. So a student doesn't have to understand when someone comes in. That's why it's good to know what language it's about. And I support, if I'm going to send mine to study at the Serbian university, or at a Serbian-language university, I'm going to put it in Banja Luka, Belgrade, I don't know Serbian Sarajevo. If I'm going to be in Bosnian then I'm going to put it in Sarajevo, there's a lot of universities in Bosnian. If I'm going to be in Croatian, then I'll probably have to go to Zagreb, because there won't be any languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina in universities, under this law, there won't be. If I'm going to study in a German cookhouse in Germany, and I don't know in Germany, and it can go to Austria, it can go to. So there's a lot here, I thought there wasn't, but whatever the discussion goes on next to me seems to me that there are a lot of traps here and I'm a lot more unhappy than this morning. I told you I've never been happier. So here I am now even more unhappy and quickly discuss these amendments, revote, and I would not answer for the word again I call the HDZ-Democracy Club not to testify to this shameful act, to leave the hall at that moment alone. We'll be back, let the services inform us, and they can't ask others, but I'd like all Hrvat to come out and not testify to this shameful act.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12332	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Who's next? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12333	Dear Chairman, I just wanted us to really stay in this sense correct until the end. It really doesn't make any sense to convince the amendments here that they could have done it better than they did, how they could have brought it together, so it would have been acceptable, etc. 65 I think it's enough that we've hurt people, we can't expect them to be glad or happy about it. So we need to be correct and people have proposed amendments and we need to be clear about these amendments. If we don't have amendments, then I would really ask that we don't unnecessarily hold this debate with the full respect of all colleagues and the rights of all business colleagues not to get away with it, and I also have the feeling that in this direction it is not constructive and it really doesn't lead to something new, but we're spinning around in circles, and we don't have any amendments to any others. So here's me with regard to the SDS Club, we're not going to discuss any amendments just out of respect for these amendments and respect for the intentions of the people they've proposed. And whether or not we like them or not, we will declare ourselves naturally by voting on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12334	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Anybody else want some? Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12335	Your Honor, I don't really know why I'm sitting here in Parliament anymore. We here propose amendments, we plead amendments given by the HDZ Club. The other thing is, here's what we criticized 'em for supporting 'em. It's my nonses, absurd. Third old Mr Zorić, my son graduated from Tuzla College, ended up in Zagreb and had no problem with the language but nothing. I totally don't understand you, and until as long as we here in Parliament have been moaning around the language as a threat, we forget the main things, and that means in other words, we have to admit the fact here, none of your amendments have been accepted on the committee, we as the SDP MPs' Club support in part of your amendments, and if there's no one against us and the SNSD amendment that has asked for the introduction of two years as a rector. Therefore, we also support this amendment and do not criticize us. We have the right to discuss. Clear, loud. If you think we're interrupting, thank you and get out of here, there's no problem. I'll go out until the end and when it's voted against my views, because then I see who voted against it. But I don't want us all to be guilty tomorrow because someone voted, and someone didn't vote for it. Therefore, we have supported some of the amendments that we have given you, and we have suggested that you, as proposings, may propose to amend the amendments, which would be adopted, which can be adopted and do not be repudiated in this way. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12336	Thank you, Bešlagić. Mr. Zorić replica. Who wants further discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12337	...that the HDZ Club has not submitted any amendments. It should certainly take care of that here. And I'm deliberately speaking quietly because I'm a little scared. Bešlagić fell for me, and you didn't notice. I was really scared, and you have to understand that I am further at risk today in this House. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12338	I thank Mr. Zorić. Sir, the correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Jović. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure in the time foreseen for correction, so Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12339	Very short. I've been in a position to say the wrong allegation not knowing I'd really need to react, and I've reacted many times today. An alternative to not adopting this law will be compromised, so we better adopt it, so let's just let some be threatened, it's being said here today and I want to confirm this isn't a wrong quote, this is true, it's now visible. And that unprincipled coalition, I shouldn't have answered. Now it's clear to everyone who's in the coalition. And there's one more thing I'm saying is that on the Constitutional Commission, I asked that the merger, the closure and the opening be transformed into status changes. It wasn't adopted either. I thought it was a technical intervention. So there was such a coalition that nothing could have happened, if I'd told them they had such color eyes, they wouldn't have accepted it. And that's why it's clear here. The law was set for Hrvat to lose university in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the law's main intensity. But shame be upon those of the international community who want it. The disappearance of Hrvat from these premises is 54% less.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12340	It's good. Come on. I thank Mr. Jović. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12341	My colleagues and colleagues, the use of the term "non-principle coalition" really affects me because it is no non-discipile coalition, but I remind my colleague Jović that recently we are about a law as important as any law passed in this assembly also had a vote where some MPs were together, today they are not together on any matter. It wasn't personal to me that I was talking about an unprincipled coalition, but from a legal and some other political aspect he was trying to convince others of the justification of my demands. Please don't at least use those qualifications, because it's not at all about, on that basis, based vote, or on the Constitutional Commission, and I suppose not on this home. That's all I wanted to say. Otherwise, everyone has the right to their positions and to their motives, to vote. If we understand each other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12342	I thank Ćeman. The word has Mr. Potočnik
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12343	Fellow representatives, we are masters to make a difference that is not greater than one percent between Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian. That's about the difference between English in England, America and New Zealand. If there is fear, I understand, but we must gradually overcome that fear, gain confidence and believe that we will have no problems whether anyone speaks Bosnian, Serbian or Croatian. 67 Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I suggest you put the vote and the amendment and the law and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12344	Thank you very much, sir. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate in the second reading and I suggest we move to a statement on the amendments. One more time, please, let's be specific. So Mr. Jović's amendments and the amendments I've submitted have overlaps. Since they were not accepted through the debate, I see a concept of the transfer of competence to the state level, as suggested by Mr Jović, I suggest that we first declare his amendments, and then those amendments, mines that are different from his. It's all business, and we're going to cut short a significant part of the time. Please get on with it. Mr. Zorić before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12345	I ask that we declare the amendment by amendment. You said in the crowd, so I intervened.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12346	I was thinking of an individual statement, but anyway, thanks for the intervention. So here, please repeat once again, we have Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's amendments, Martin Raguž and SNSD's Club, with the signature of Mr. Kragulj on Article 14. That's what we have on the table means. I, as chairman, have seen that I can propose that order and I think you can accept it. So I suggest we make a statement on the amendment and Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Please vote now. With 5 votes for, 27 against, 7 abstentions, Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's amendment did not receive a necessary majority. We move to a statement on Amendment II of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović and my amendment is the same, so we absorb both his and my amendment. So please make your statement on Amendment II of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović and Mr. Martin Raguž. Vote now. With six votes against, 26 against, 7 abstentions, I find that this amendment II of Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž has been rejected. We move to the Declaration on Amendment III. He's the same with Mr. Jović and me. 68 Please state by vote. Vote now. With six against, 25 against, eight abstentions, I find amendments III to Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž rejected. We move to a statement on Amendment IV of Ivo Mire Jović. He's different here. Please state Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's amendment IV. Vote now. With 11 for, 23 against, five abstentions, I find Mr. Ivo Mire Jović's amendment not accepted. We move on to Amendment V. Refers to Article 33. He's the same with Mr. Jović and me. Please make your voice known. Vote now. With eight votes to, 26 against, five abstentions, I find this amendment to V Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž not accepted. We move on to Amendment VI of Ivo Mire Jović. Please declare Amendment VI of Ivo Mire Jović. Vote now. With 12 votes to, 23 against, four abstentions, I find amendment VI of Ivo Mire Jović not accepted. We move on to Amendment VII of Ivo Mire Jović. Please state the amendment VII to Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Vote now. With 10 votes for, 23 against, 6 abstentions, amendment VII of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović was not accepted. We move on to Amendment VIII of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Please declare Amendment VIII to Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Vote now. With nine votes to, 24 against, 6 abstentions were not accepted by amendment VIII of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. We move on to Amendment IX, which is the same with Mr. Ivo Mire Jović and me. So, Amendment IX to Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž. I suggest you make a statement on Amendment IX. Please vote now. With 8 votes against, 24 against, 6 abstentions, amendments IX to Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž were not accepted. We move on to Amendment X of Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž. They're the same. Please make your statement on Amendment X. Vote now. With 5 votes for, 27 against, 7 abstentions, amendments X to Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž were not accepted. We move on to amendment XI of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Please make your statement on Amendment XI. Vote now. With 5 votes for, 26 against, 6 abstentions, amendment XI Ivo Mire Jović was not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment XII, which is in the same text as Mr. Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž. Please declare Amendment XII. Vote now. With 8 votes against, 24 against, 6 abstentions, amendments XII Ive Mire Jović and Martin Raguž were not accepted. 69 We move to Amendment XIII of Mr Ivo Mire Jović. Please make your statement on Amendment XIII. Vote now. With 11 votes for, 24 against, 4 abstentions, amendment XIII of Mr Ivo Mire Jović was not accepted. We move to Amendment XIV, which is also given in the same text by Mr Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž. Please declare Amendment XIV. Vote now. With 5 votes for, 28 against, 6 abstentions, amendments XIV Ivo Mire Jović and Martin Raguž were not accepted. We move on to amendment XV of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Please make your statement on Amendment XV. Vote now. With 11 votes in favour, 24 against, 4 abstentions were not accepted by amendment XV of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. We move to a statement on Amendment XVI of Ivo Mire Jović. Please declare Amendment XVI. Vote now. With 11 votes to, 23 against, 4 abstentions, amendment XVI of Mr. Ivo Mire Jović was not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment XVII Ivo Mire Jović. Please declare Amendment XVII. Vote now. With 11 votes to, 23 against, four abstentions, I find Amendment XVII Ivo Mire Jović not accepted. We are moving on to Amendment XVIII of Ivo Mire Jović. Please make your statement on Amendment XVIII. Vote now. With 13 votes in favour, 22 against, 4 abstentions were not accepted by amendment to the XVIII of Mr Ivo Mire Jović. We move on to Amendment XIX of Ivo Mire Jović, which is the same as Amendment XVIII Martin Raguž. Please state the amendment to the XIX of Ive Mire Jović and XVIII of Martin Raguž. Please vote now. With 10 votes for, 24 against, 4 abstentions, Amendment XIX Ive Mire Jović and Xvići Martin Raguž were not accepted. We move on to Amendment XX Iva Mira Jovic and XIX Martin Raguž. Please declare amendments XX to Ivo Mire Jović and XIX to Martin Raguž. Vote now. With 9 votes against, 24 against, 6 abstentions, amendments XX Ivo Mire Jović and XIX Martin Raguž were not accepted. We have exhausted all the amendments submitted by Ivo Miro Jović. I am asking you now to make a statement about those amendments that I have submitted, which were not at this stage of the plea. 70 It's an amendment and I, who filed Martin Raguž. Please state that amendment. Vote now. With five votes for, 27 against, five abstentions, the amendment of Martin Raguž was not accepted. We move on to the amendment, the amendment to Amendment IV submitted by Martin Raguž. Please plead. Vote now. With 5 votes for, 27 against, 7 abstentions, amendment IV of Martin Raguž was not accepted. We move on to Amendment VI of Martin Raguž. Please make your statement on Amendment VI. Vote now. With six votes to, 26 against, four abstentions were not accepted by amendment VI Martin Raguž. We move to the Declaration on Amendment VII of Martin Raguž. Please make your statement on Amendment VII. With five votes for, 27 against, five abstentions, amendment VII of Martin Raguž was not accepted. I ask you to make a statement on Amendment VIII of Martin Raguž. Please vote now. With 5 for, 26 against and 5 abstentions, this amendment to Martin Raguž was not accepted. We move on to Amendment XIII of Martin Ragug. Please make your statement on Amendment XIII. Vote now. With five votes to, 26 against, six abstentions, amendment XIII Martin Raguž was not accepted. Moving to Amendment XV. Please state the amendment to the XV of Martin Raguž. Vote now. With 5 for, 28 against, 5 abstentions, amendment XV Martin Raguž was not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment XVI of Martin Raguž. Please vote now. With five votes for, 27 against, five abstentions, amendment XVI Martin Raguž was not accepted. We still have Amendment XVII. Please state the amendment XVII submitted by Martin Raguž. Vote now. With 6 for, 25 v, 4 abstentions, amendment XVII Martin Raguž was not accepted. That's how we exhausted the amendments that Martin Raguž submitted. We have another amendment filed by the SNSD Parliament Club. That's Amendment I.. moliti state the amendment and which was submitted by the SNSD MEPs' Club. Vote now. With 32 votes in, five against, one abstention. Federation 19, RS 13. I find that the amendment and the Club of Representatives of the SNSD have been accepted. This ended the debate and the vote on the law, the amendments. Now, before we make a statement on the law and in the second reading, I really want to thank you all for your constructive discussion. It is likely that this debate will serve as a basis for many future discussions. 71 You will understand me what this act of voting will leave to Mr Džaferovuće. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12347	Is it business for me to continue now? First deputy, yes. Just for the record, please. So ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and after consulting with the secretary, so the first deputy in this situation takes over the House presidency. I'm asking you, just explain a little bit here, yeah. We vote therefore on the law as a whole with this one amendment which has therefore been adopted and that is the text of this law and I call on you to vote. Vote now. I'm sorry. Please. Something's wrong. We'll do it again. Please just. Please be nice, then. Give me a minute to get those cards. Please, I repeat the vote. Let me get this straight. Come on. This and this, and I did it, but you didn't follow me back then. Please, ladies and gentlemen, we're voting on the law. Vote now. Let's hear the results of the vote. So 30 MPs voted for the law. They were against three, abstention one. According to entities from Federation 17 from RS 13. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law on Higher Education. I'd like you to inform the chairman to enter the O.R. and proceed with the session. I'm taking a five-minute break. We're moving to item four of today's agenda. [[PAUZA]] That's Ad.4. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act pursuant to the expeditious procedure pursuant to Article 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, you know that at last session in the debate on the predlog agenda, we have also discussed this request from the Council of Ministers for a long time. It was then that concrete comments were made. After the debate, we concluded that this application for the adoption of this law under Article 105 is to be included in today's session and that the Council of Ministers, meanwhile, is considering the overall circumstances for which this law is to be adopted. I call on the Council of Ministers to explain this request. Mr. Doco's Doko, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12348	I thank the Mr. Chairman, the honourable MPs I was not present at the last session. You shall have before you a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act in accordance with the urgency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. In 72 annexes to this material you have legal basis, the reasons for the adoption of the supplementation of this law and the justification of the proposed measures. And I wouldn't focus too much on this part of the text that's in front of you. I would briefly explain what the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations did in the period from 12 months last year, so here we have, to date, in order to improve the situation of domestic producers, particularly agricultural and processors and primary agricultural producers, where we have formed several working groups, which have also held resolution ministers at national and entity levels, representatives of various associations, directors of indirect taxation administrations, DGS directors, and where we have agreed on the 6 meetings we had in this Working Group for the implementation of the Law in the veterinary field many activities and measures that have already given some of the expected results. One of these measures is also this proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act where we have proposed one solution that actually creates one legal basis or legal assumption for the protection of domestic production, or if this term might seem to some group to improve the competitive capacity of our producers. It is, therefore, only a framework within which the Council of Ministers can act. This is not an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act and this law does not change a single rate. One new part of Chapter 4 is added, these are tariff quotas where they are determined in a way that for certain products that are numbered here we can determine the meaning of preferential tariff measures and here we have explained how we would implement it. If we look back a little on those developments regarding the application of the Free Trade Agreement, you are also aware of the situation which has been caused and the negative consequences precisely in the agriculture sector, we wanted to remove these negative effects, and this measure means practically within the framework of the law, rather than through the Council of Ministers' decisions which are often and disputed create the assumption that the Council of Ministers has an instrument to improve the competitiveness and primary agricultural producers and processors. It's three categories of meat, pork, beef and chicken meat, and it's probably known and decisions have been made before, the truth and decisions have actually been one decision lately, worth one limited time for three months, but technically it was only worth a month. It is products that cannot be found on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market in sufficient quantities and appropriate quality. It means only certain parts of pig, beef and chicken meat. We did not, of course, want to allow these measures to be privileged or how someone might interpret the monopoly position of processors but we wanted to bind the meaning of these measures for both the situation and the situation in which the primary agricultural producers were found. So these quotas would be used in a way that by buying agricultural products, primarily means beef, pork, chicken meat, or obtaining the meaning of quotas for the import of these products that are here in this proposal at the preferential customs rate. So that's a brief explanation. Here I am also available to answer all questions if there are any ambiguities regarding this proposal to amend the Customs Tariff Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12349	I thank Minister Doki. I am opening a debate on this request from the Council of Ministers. Mr. Potočnik, then Mr. Lagumdžija. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12350	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have heard nothing from this exhibit incentivizing the primary processing of the meat industry. I mean, first of all, those who deal with cultivation of any poultry, any calves, etc., or any mechanism that they will get some kind of investment for their development or organisational model that will be organised, or the way that funds will be raised for it, so that I would ask Minister Dok to explain it to us and if there is one, then maybe there are conditions for accepting this customs law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12351	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12352	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, this law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be very clear and precisely rejected, but not only reject this law, but from this law that has come before us and all that is related to this law we need to learn some lessons, first and foremost, which we allow to be served in this way by the amendments and amendments to the laws that have been made and what impact on people's lives, and what impact they are on the basis of, can freely say, after all this, the proposals of the Council of Ministers which are most recently unacceptable. Our chairman of the Council of Ministers here was here a dozen days ago when he said that those for the next ten days that committees would call us, that he would convince us that he would allow us to talk about this, us, I am, as far as I'm aware of in a commission where we had no, no opportunity to talk about this, now he's brought us in on Article 105, by principle, to accept or leave us in a situation where, after we leave, we'll see how these things don't happen to us. This decision, or pardon, is similar to the decision made by the Council of Ministers in December, before the end of last year when it gave us something practically similar to this done through a decision that practically the Council of Ministers acknowledged that such decisions could not be made by the Council of Ministers but must be based on the law. In fact, in December, the Council of Ministers could have been introduced to the public through means of information, and not us through Parliament, so I apologize, so we have also come to know that it has made decisions which it has introduced in a similar way to the corresponding artics of the existing law that we need to amend today, and by doing so we are resuscitating those decisions that they have made contrary to the law. We are today, I said it last time, I want to repeat when the minister is here chairing the Council of Ministers that he was very angry when I said it. This is not the Law on Supplements on the Customs Tariffs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is a permit, or invitation to import into this country junk that Europe will not use and that various meats, i.e. insides of a variety of frozen meat of dubious quality to be imported here and then such processings that can not be sold anywhere in Europe can be sold here finely packaged into various cellophanes and that here children are practically replaced by their stomachs for containers in the European Union. So we know what I'm talking about. I think whoever raises a hand for this is an accomplice, and we need to know what's going on. Instead of doing any of what we concluded in December at that dramatic session of Parliament, to strengthen institutions that will enable order to be introduced in this 74 area, to introduce appropriate phytosanitary inspections and protection at borders, to introduce more, to enable our institutions, our firms that are engaged in the process of certification of their goods, and thus exporting it from Bosnia and Herzegovina, something here is just a sign of collapse further. There's a question why only these three of, say, 450 different products. Why these three? Why not some other three? What a balance, have we seen and measured once that we have been given before us the balance of our production, our needs with some policy in this area. Please. Who's got extras? Ours have extras? Ours have excesses, otherwise you can get it now, we get information from people who, from this area that deal with thousands, literally thousands of tons, here's a man behind me 5.5 thousand, but it's clearly thousands, that I wouldn't be talking about without a balance right now, it's thousands of tons that are now going to rot in those freezers, because we're going to have people doing the scene again by making the baggers shake out the domestic production that, in this way, proposes to substitute. Not to say that here you can see yourself in these names, here you have any beef or pork, here's the poultry, cut into pieces, frozen without bones for industrial production. It says here finely when you look at it, these people who understand it say that behind this meat cut into pieces is nothing more than the possibility and imports at denting prices, not only of what will go into production, but of what will compete with domestic production at prices that are Danish at 80 fening. And by doing so, we're directly destroying what little domestic production we have in primary. I think that instead of this decision, we should suggest to the Council of Ministers to introduce reciprocal measures, so-called. non-tariff protection against excessive imports of such and similar products in accordance with the free trade agreement. There's no need for me to teach people who are members of that thing here. I also think it's a law that's been put in front of us to see how many holes he's got in him. Here in your explanation you stand in addition to the law are the proposed quotas for 3 tariff codes, relating to imports of agricultural food products. This is how domestic production is stimulated. The amount of quota is set on BiH's quarterly needs. Keep an eye on the three-month needs. But the time period and volume of the quota can be extended, or extended, that is to say in the explanation. And from that you can conclude that it's possible that this is a three-month quota. I can, and it doesn't have to mean, and maybe it's monthly, and maybe it's annual, and maybe it's extended and maybe it's decided. And certainly our law. This opens the possibility, first of all, responsiblely argues this is directly harmful to the health of our people, this is direct, this is an invitation to smuggling, and this is the direct undermining of the little healthy primary production that has been launched and which, fortunately, crosses both the entity and state borders and people connect between themselves and this is how it is destroyed most brutally. What do I suggest? I suggest what to say is whether Munib is the responsibility of those who did this, that we are told why a decision was made that was against the law, why it comes before us with such a law which is an invitation to much of what I have already said, and only illustrations do I want you and the gentlemen of the Ministry of Trade to know very well, currently Croatia has a huge problem because Bosnia and Slovenia has entered the European Union. Croatia has found out, and we know that our farmers have problems getting to the Croatian market, let alone the Slovenian market that is now in the EU. So this Croatia that we have due to the lack of adequate state institutions of phytosanitary protection and so on because of the lack of certain accreditation certificates and similar institutions, we cannot throw it there. They have a problem because now they won't be able to get to markets that became part of the EU three days ago. You can imagine what problem we have when Croatia has it. And now we're going out with one of these laws that God forbid it's just a mistake. I think that's what the Ministry of Foreign Trade should ask them to seriously prepare a policy programme in this area for this year with the emergency measures they need to get our support. It is clear as a day that in a country like Bosnia and Herzegovina no animals have been identified at all in the way it is done in neighbouring countries when people are not identified as to what they say, then on what basis we're going to do this. Also, just to remind you that it took Slovenia six years to spy on the mandatory payment of incentives to agriculture. The system for six years, so they had money, what we don't have in the budget. And then it took them six years to secure the mechanism directly from the Ministry of Agriculture that the man who produced it got the money without having a million intermediaries scratching them. So we can go on this subject for a long time. I would therefore suggest that we go out with, if, with one serious piece of paper in front of us, that this be refused, that the Council of Ministers be tasked with getting us out of this with serious paper as soon as possible, and in that context, I would go with proposals that should contribute to that agricultural policy being different.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12353	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Novaković answered for the word, so Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12354	Dear colleagues, we have today on the agenda of the procedure of this law, and we should practically state whether we are to apply Article 105 or not. On the other hand, it shouldn't take us much time, or we shouldn't go into the details of the law, if we're already discussing the procedure, so we can plead for or against the procedure, and that's what we're expected to do today. I must say that last time I suggested that we postpone the debate on this procedure for this session with a clear intention of clearing up some of the ambiguities relating to this deviation during that period, i.e. to take steps to clear up some of the ambiguities. Unfortunately, we have to realize that this time has not been used for it so that today we have the exact same situation that we had last time. So nothing new, I don't know anything more than what I knew or have some new documents that would a little more support this whole thing. What also concerns is a decision that should follow. I would have liked it much more and I would have been much more pleased if I had had an example of this decision today, not to vote on it, but to know how this law would work. Unfortunately, I didn't get that decision either, nor did you here, so it leaves a pretty good spare in a large number of producers especially in the perry processing section. So, we haven't got anything new, and we don't have that decision that would explain a little bit, and for that reason, the SDS Club is not ready to vote for the procedure under Article 105. So we will not vote in favour of the procedure under Article 105, and in this way we will allow the debate on this law. And by the time I got up, I would like to make one proposal since the chairman didn't notice me when I raised my hand before this point, namely on behalf of the SDS Club that we are working up to 15 to 6 today, keeping in mind and bound by some other obligations of MPs and considering and really tiredness after 76 of all these discussions today, and also finds some obligations, so I am asking both the College and the other MPs to respect our proposal and simply continue this session somewhere or possibly 11th, so on Monday, at the point where we stand today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12355	Before Mr. Novaković, I am obliged, I have respected all your work requirements today in the way you have asked and I as chairman cannot interrupt today's debate on this agenda, because it is important points and I cannot accept that request. Thank you very much. We'll work, we'll hold out, who can. I mean, that's what we agreed. I respect the arrangements. Please do the same. For his word, Mr Doko asked for a word, it was practice, we give the word to the Minister, or to a member of the Council when he asks for the Council. Mr. Moranjkić, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, and Mr. Avdić. It is the order of applications and Mr Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12356	I thank Mr. Chairman, I will answer, and I will answer other questions later, but here is the fact that a lot has been said, I will answer to Mr. Potočnjak that the incentives given in the agriculture sector are not in the power of the Council of Ministers and that they are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity ministries and entity governments that have these resources. So the Council of Ministers cannot directly affect that part. You know that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed a 4% budget law and this is an increase in these funds. As regards species, coverts and means of distribution of these funds, the entity governments therefore establish these criteria again. As for the recognition of the Council of Ministers that it has recognised it means that it has made decisions beyond the law, it is not true, that claim cannot be correct. The Council of Ministers has the right to make decisions, it can, it's the only condition for them to be temporary and we've made such decisions. A bit of a bigger problem is with some other decisions that don't have that temporary character and there's this very important difference. So, as far as it's garbage, there's no evidence that it's garbage. These are the foods imported, which are healthy, reviewed, and that claim does not stand. The questionable quality as a term is controversial. What does "suspecting" mean? It can only be something that hasn't been reviewed, and if reviewed, then that qualification doesn't exist, a suspicious quality. These are simply raw materials used in the processing industry and it is absolutely true that these can't be parts of animals that are quality such as a file or other products. None of the files make salami or if they're made, then they're too expensive and that's one share on the market very modest. As for what the Council of Ministers did, the Council of Ministers is four months earlier, and here I am eight months in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, I can freely say much more than the Council of Ministers did two years ago, how much time it had to do in the formation of various institutions, accreditation institutions, laboratories, inspection bodies and everything else I can confirm that the Office of Veterinary has done a large part of these activities, for example. that we have now completed the certification process, that we have an Animal Marking Agency based in Banja Luka, and we have made a decision at the last Council of Ministers session on the financing of the printing of forms and that we have obtained a sopstfer and hardware at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, so that these are claims that are not standing and which are now being denied. 77 As far as excess meat is concerned, we have not used the excess category, though realistically in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this stock is not that big, but there are some kinds of meat that may be said to be excess and then they are the problem because they are not bought. You have a problem in Republika Srpska, right now with 3,000 pigs and they're overgrown. That's the information we got from the association. Please. And you can't wait here to make the elaborates, but you have to intervene urgently. These are pigs that grow up every day and mean they spend practically money, food money, and they don't have a buyer, and in this way we just wanted to solve the intervention and fast to buy that part of production, primary agricultural production, and only after buying that part and only after presenting evidence that the ransom was made and that the value was paid, the possibility of using quotas. I only mention the possibility, you're just giving one instrument, we didn't want to bypass Parliament and say that this is the decision-making process. Be sure that these decisions can continue to be made as they were, but respecting the House of Representatives, respecting the meaning of the Council of Ministers' legislation, I think that in the most transparent way it has offered the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt this amendment to the law or here's how I said the possibility that we could intervene in this way, because it matches the full regulation of the European Community. If you have read this decision correctly on other conditions you will see that this imported meat can only be used for production. Therefore, imported meat cannot be used for placing on the market. So it can't happen unless it's a crime behind which we absolutely don't stand to show up on the file market in the fridge tomorrow. It can only appear to mean reprocessing, only for those purposes, and I underline that it is very transparent in that part of the Council of Ministers' intention as well. So this is how we solve the issue of agricultural primary producers, and when it comes to this lager that you speak about frozen meat, chicken meat, in no way can we intervene except from the stock reserves to buy something like that. It has to find its place on the market and this may be the only way to help them intervene. What is important to note is that all representatives of these associations have agreed to these measures. If they agree and if this is the result of their work together with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and with the entity ministries of agriculture, then I don't see why it would be controversial. So they agreed and it is explicitly this and their request, this is a request and working groups for the implementation of veterinary regulations that have practically agreed to this proposal to supplement the customs tariff law. This should actually be some information that will explain a little bit about this, about this amendment to the law, and as far as the decision is concerned, we said that the decision will be subsequently made, again in cooperation with representatives of these associations, because we cannot know how much in Republika Srpska, at least not the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or the Council of Ministers, how many pigs there are right now. The information is that there are 3,000 or four of them that are just growing up, that they need urgent and urgent interventions. So that's the answer to this question that you don't have a copy of the decision. The decisions will later be in the power of the ministry of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will make those decisions in line with the needs. So it will intervene as agreed with representatives and associations and ministers, entity ministers of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12357	Thank you, Mr. Doki. Did Mr. Novaković ask for a replica? I'm just asking if Mr. Novaković asked for it or if he called earlier. If it's a replica, if it's a discussion, then you'll get the word? So you signed up for the hearing. Here you go. Mr. Novaković for the replica, so Mr. Moranjkić, Mr. Potočnik, Replic, Mr. Lagumdžija, and Mr. Moranjkić discussed. Please, let's really respect it. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12358	Unfortunately, I don't understand if we have 3,000 pigs on the market, so why do these producers, when they don't already have to buy them out, then come out with a request to give them full free imports, because there's just nothing left to buy out on the market anymore. [[can't hear the first part of the discussion-a short]] So there's little logic of this finding because if there already exists, and there's some amount, so why doesn't it buy out and the producers have nothing to offer after that, so they'll get free imports on demand so all processors will get free imports of both beef and pig meat.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12359	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12360	Mr. Doko has just confirmed what I said there is no mechanism, because if you give a preferential relationship to one sector, it means meat processing industry, and the other 3% that should be at entity level not to come to them or not to know that they are coming, means that it is placed in an irregular relationship would say one producer and one producer and another. On the other side, 6,5,000 tonnes were imported in 2002, and 10,000 tonnes in 2003, and here you said 3,000 pigs per 200 kilo, that's only 60 tons, that's meaningless. It's just saying there's a 50% increase in imports compared to 2003. In 2002, which means absolutely nothing is done to make sure that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to say work in the area of poultry, in the area of pig farming, etc. And it's known and I think it's clear to anyone who's not an expert that the fund is either cattley, whether the Peradian can reverse and put on their feet in five years and it's clear that one of the priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that it at least feeds itself if something can't be exported out. I have to do it again. So there's no system, there's no mechanism, and this is just solving one part of the problem, not getting into whether it's garbage on import or not. So without a system solution, I think this is a firefight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12361	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The replica of Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12362	Since it's been said here that the wrong things I've brought out are. Everything I've said is absolutely true and the minister has given these assessments completely on a flat-rate basis, and if he's given those grades on a flat-rate basis, his best statement is that all the producers, I repeat, have agreed to this. Everyone. So it's simply not true because here, according to the congregation benches, it's full of memos from various associations of manufacturers of these or those that point to what's being said here. So that's not true. And if you open the peach this way you can see that only this law opens the space if this is a quarterly quota that only opens this law at the start of a quarterly quota that will result in more than 16 thousand tonnes this year only by this law compared to 10 last and 6 before. So we're just increasing this. 79 It is still completely irresponsible to claim that this law here is made precise and clear, because precisely please meat, feathers cut to pieces etc. Pork, beef, frozen, boneless, etc. When you look here you see that it's about products that are directly referred to the market in markets, markets and the like. Why? Because we don't have the mechanisms to protect this from really just going into processing. So once again, this law is an invitation to smugglers to get further rich.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12363	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. The word is Mr. Moranjkić. Let Mrs. Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12364	Mr. Chairman, I'll try for a moment. I will try with the impressions I gained in the presence of several hundred processors of all Bosnia and Herzegovina from both entities that were held the other day in Srebrenica and when I heard it, it was no longer clear to me. They claim that their freezers contain 5.5 thousand tons of chicken frozen meat that is on the verge of losing all quality and being such a wasteland object. I'm particularly interested, I want to try to get involved in the problem, so I talked to these people and asked them if they could and confirm part of Mr. Minister's claim, they told me that all flesh truth cannot be used in industrial production. It should be used about 13 to 15% with the previous so-called. By disembarking who is not in this beautiful country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, except one small capacity that has... which has made some transfer with Slovenians and sold it to people who will be waiting for us in a few days on benches and on roads with tractors and locusts from farmers. I'm interested in being a man, in the extreme and out of that dam, because before that I had a farm that I had also closed was handed over to my son, and he closed down, because he came into a situation like the hundreds of poultry who had practically taken up the alert, and the product of those alarms was to put out these fires, and the only thing the ministry could do was to engage with the quota part. I'm only interested in the following, and that's whether those quotas are a reflection of a single mathematics or an account in which we have to calculate our existing state, and it takes so much to add, to give priority to our own, and to add to this. That I don't see, and that should be the predecessor of that, if it's not, then it's not to say flat-rate, but it's a sum because where is this in one or two tons of computer there and it says 652 or 1,273 tons, and it's not even a gram said, where is it from. If that's what this is, then it's somewhat to accept. If that's what I think the predecessor did, then I think that something is wrong and that these quotas, if they're still quarterly, they're going to be huge imports, and that means that they're practically going to put our agricultural producers who produce here at the very end of these three meat categories, not to say the other ones. Secondly, I expect and expect, I have asked, but the truth no one has ever answered my 30 questions so far, because they serve to make fun of certain ministers in the Council of Ministers, I have heard it with my ears with the presence of Mr. Petar Kunić, I am interested in why the tariff law does not come to the bench of this. Partial tariffs, dating with tyrifs in front of these MPs and extracts 3 out of 3 thousands or 30,000 items imported or goods say that we are not ready to deal with the real problem that practically pushes this country, especially agricultural producers. 80 It happens to me that he's going for eyes and a certain way of tariffring. I'm one of the people who had a son I handed over to the biggest phasery in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These goods are not recorded anywhere in this land through Sava. So these thousands of meats are, and I confirm part of this claim by Mr. Lagumdžija that it's just the openings and the door they're about to enter. I know exactly, there's no place for me to speak my name and last name as an MP in these benches today, and I can if I need an organ that's interested in telling this label how many thousands of tons of real meat that don't go into this industry. So this is just a cover that imposes that we have to do besides that and squeeze the customs that so give... that... that we did that job. Plus, I say, tomorrow let him go with me if he wants and we'll come to Arizona, I'll leave you as an interested buyer and ask you how many hundred toads you want to receive in Arizona, which won't even be recorded anywhere across the border that will enter here. They're practically problems and with this little shutdown, we're not gonna do anything. I suggest that the ministry normally take and this is one of the measures, to imagine taking it, I agree with what Mr. Lagumdžija said to the reciprocitys, which can be introduced as a measure, then to press customs to do the job and service that misses them, because I have the exact information that three days from that side of Sava or Drine pile up the helmets, set up the furniture in the DGS, which should let it go and she suddenly misses 50 or 100 high-tariff skippers, and even these goods that enter the country, and we're here to slaughter around these tones, etc. Furthermore, proper tariff on goods and I demand that one ministry come out and that this law sees all the light in front of this Parliament. The photo shoot is a measure, I welcome it, if it's accounted for, as I suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12365	Thank Mr. Moranjkić. I remind you of article 25. The Rules of Procedure, under f), that the Chairman may limit the duration of interventions in relation to one or more issues, which are necessary to ensure that the agenda is considered as a whole. I'm asking you to agree that I intervene, that you all get the word, but to find some time frame to absorb at least one significant part of this agenda. Can we do it that way? Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Avdić and Mr. Bešlagić. That's what I've got reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12366	I thank the chairman, I, when I listened carefully to the minister in the opening presentation, thought he fell for years of pressures, related to special status and treatment of machine-exploited meat, and I felt sorry for him. That, indeed, is what I must say, for the simple reason that I know that it stands in the background of this, and if it has already been mentioned a lot more about smuggling, crime, possibility, acle, anomalies, avoidance of law enforcement, still not built institutions to control the specific goods that are subject to regulation of this law. But perhaps what I find most difficult, which I know means breaking the rules of international trade with all the repercussions that this country is going to pay, because of that in the future. I thought that the minister had settled, however, in his explanation, the minister showed that and that he did not fall for it, especially the relevant fellow Lagumdžija on his rather strong arguments, so a colleague who is also a college professor along with me, on whom counterpart Doko finished his studies. So now I'm going to use that position a little bit to remind you of my colleague Doko, more in terms of some questions. You have learned from the analysis of foreign trade of the international economy protectionism, i.e. protection mechanisms in international trade, and that one of the exclusive measures of protectionistism in 81 international trade is the increase of crina. But I'd like to hear how that zero-foot thing, as you say in the explanation, stimulates and increases, or protects domestic production? If you have an argument for that, therefore, zero customs rate, protection of domestic production, I will suggest you to the Nobel Prize for economics. Secondly, you're saying here it's about companies that concern the production of primary agricultural producers. The primary agricultural producers shall not import with a zero rate of beef frozen meat, pig meat fresh, poultry meat, etc. It is the exclusive convenience of the meat-processing industry. Dale, it's not agricultural production, it's industry, it's trade. I understand, you're a trade minister and it makes sense to me, but don't use it in an explanation and especially written, especially in your elaborate argument that has nothing to do with the economy. Thirdly, I will remind you of what my colleague Lagumdžija said, you in December, or the Council of Ministers, in December of calling for the law on foreign trade policy, changed the tariff and brought the same thing, but called for the law on foreign trade policy. Furthermore, on 1 January, you unilaterally decided on a three-month suspension of the free trade agreement, which, I remind you of 1 January, means a zero customs rate for imports from countries with which we have a free trade agreement. Eh, now what does this mean, if we, with neighbouring Republic of Croatia, neighbouring Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and other countries, with which we have a free trade agreement, and with Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro in full application, so, with a zero customs rate, you change the tariff and introduce quotas, the amount of quota, so you violate international rules of trade with a zero customs rate. So it's no good importing from Croatia, but maybe it's from some country, where it's not a zero customs rate. Furthermore, fellow Doko, you say, among other things, you are proposing quotas here, which is a direct violation of the rules of international trade and, I suppose you know very well, at the same time, I remind you of the valid free trade agreements, with constant requirements for their application to be suspended, or suspended, I will remind you of one economic effect of the free trade contract, which is to create, or stimulate trade and through trade in production, and that there are negative effects in bilateral arrangements, or such proposals, such as this proposal that you delivered in the procedure, which is the detour of trade with all negative repercusions, you learned from the economy... I will not, first of all, congratulate you on the success this Council has in its council, especially the Ministry of Foreign Trade in the last four months, which has been working so successfully, as you have said. I want you to continue to do so successfully, and now I am speaking on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club, from now on, the Party for BiH Parliament Club is, for procedure 105, so we agree with the proposal for procedure 105 and, of course, the refusal of such a proposal and such nebuloses, which come once and for all...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12367	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, the word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go. Mr. Doko.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12368	I thank Mr. President, I think it's better if I do, because there were more questions and more findings and arguments. With regard to the free trade agreement, we have no obligation in those contracts or any other party to reduce customs rates. So, just giving up increasing customs rates or measures that have the same effect. So we have the full right to introduce quotas and release some products and all the more expensive in Europe use it, it is not at all an instrument that is new. We've never used it before, because I don't know why we didn't use it. Obviously, it wasn't counted as such a very good instrument. Of course, one part of the processing agricultural production can be considered an industry, but in a way that if we tie it to the purchase of primary agricultural products, then, surely, we can say that it serves to encourage agricultural production. In what way? If we release customs, pay customs, we bring our producers into an equal position or as competitive as it is with the countries with which we have signed a free trade agreement, a simple example. If the producer, a processor from Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro exports to BiH its products, he will be freed from customs payments and is on our market with privileged status, because he will use the import clause from exports, he will not pay for a better position. Our obligation and our responsibility is to ensure our manufacturers and processors a minimum level of equal position or a level playing field, and in this regard I accept responsibility. In another sense, I won't say that I don't accept it, you can talk, but I just don't think there's any responsibility in that negative sense of that word. So, as for this purchase of pig meat, why don't they buy it, and then I can use it. I'll tell you, if they buy it, and we don't pass this law or change the law, then they won't be able to use it, we're now bound to buy it, the most direct way, the ransom, the pay, and then use it. I don't see what the problem is. And they have a problem that they can't sell to anyone those three and a half — four suckling pigs, which are now just as much, as cattle, as chicken meat. They, of course, because we don't have that data, because it's not the Foreign Trade Ministry, it's not responsible for collecting data from the agriculture sector. We do what we can. The Council of Ministers did the most and the Ministry of Foreign Trade did the most in the last four months on these activities and certainly improved the position of domestic agricultural producers. Using that data, together with representatives of all associations, of course we didn't if someone realized that I had spoken to all the producers, I apologized, I didn't talk to all the producers, I talked to all the representatives, who are in my office, so I can say monthly ten days practically and I can say that and the chairman of the Council of Ministers got very actively involved in these activities and that we came together to these measures. I won't take all the credit for these activities, because I can't have too many people involved in this, just those who are interested and whose interests you've protected, but I don't know how effectively you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12369	I thank Minister Doki. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12370	Mr. Chairman, esteemed ministers, honourable MPs, time does its part, we work nine hours, with a half-hour break, and it seems to me that things are serious on the agenda, that a man would pay attention to every point of the agenda, and therefore I think that, therefore, it is my suggestion that after this point, a man could take a break and proceed with the work, that the College would agree, because we are still waiting for the serious points of the agenda, but, of course, it would decide this home. 83 What I want to say is that, otherwise, when it comes to the economy and when it comes to social accounts, it is very difficult for one serious MP to gals for any decision concerning the tariff quota and the budget, without clear social accounts. And, of course, this is possible only in BiH, trust social accounts and, of course, this is only possible in BiH believe only in BiH anywhere else. And that's why there isn't, not just for this, but for any decision concerning the change in customs tariff and any rate, I won't vote without a serious economic analysis. You see, by any chance, the Council of Ministers is in a position or not, I don't know, but Minister Doko says we didn't have any data, we're not in charge of the data. I now remind you of the explanation of where it is said. The BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry can either independently or on an entity's resistance ministry's initiative with the assistance of the BiH Chamber of Commerce and Chambers of Commerce, based on an analysis of the existing economic situation in certain sectors or in order to protect domestic production and increase production and increase production to propose the introduction of certain customs reliefs for certain goods. We just heard there's no data. How can you do an analysis without data? So, I wish you'd delivered that analysis to the MPs, whether there are 10, 20, 30 or 50 pages. But I'm convinced that every page of that analysis I'm going to swallow, if there is and I think there's a Council of Ministers here, I know that it's in a difficult economic situation, but under the pressure of the processor, the carnivores lay on blackmail and put this proposal on the table. I am convinced that the misused producers will be primary agricultural producers. It is said here that, in addition to the law, the proposed quotas are for three tariff codes and refers to imports of agricultural food products, in this way to stimulate and increase domestic production, it is really funny that imports stimulate domestic production, and remember the development strategy where our trust is listed there, within the framework of it, livestock production and I don't know the other branches, where this story is today. I have to say, there are now over two and a half thousand tons of chicken meat in RS only for processors. Just remember the TV shows where the people of the day were killing, suffocating, I guess somewhere in Gradac I saw this scene that was ugly to look at. We let the mafia in this country clean up the warehouses of Western Europe to take one leg, to import a kilo of bataks to KM, what to do, where to sell the one that manufactures, who loads chickens. So, I think we need to play some serious stuff. I respect the position of the Council of Ministers, Minister, but I am not prepared as an MP to raise my hand for something called an account, and there is no bill. So, in that sense, I won't support Article 105's procedure either, and I won't simply support this proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act, and I have to say that, it's simply a time when the problems have to be solved studioly, regardless of the difficulties in the agrarian and, regardless of the blackmails are strong and severe, I know that. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12371	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we repeat the discussion of the last time, and this discussion was an argument, this was all we talked about and what fellow Špirić said was a discussion and an argument for a simple conclusion, that it was given the confidence of the Council of Ministers to correct the document and to offer us a full analysis, a simple justification for such a decision by the Council of Ministers. We all said, the only things that were present when we made this decision. I'm telling you, I'm well-acquainted, I repeat once again, at point three, it's like this. Chicken machine-exhausted meat. I know the exact name. It's pure manipulation, Mr. Minister. Be assured. Three years ago, I was president of those two commissions, who worked three months on it. Which means, Mr. Minister, I assure you, that you are taking no critical information from the association, and to tell you that some associations are forming for this decision of yours. Formed in BiH. Associations that have nothing to do with agricultural production, which means gentlemen where we are. So the Council of Ministers can only draw data from a simple newly formed association. So did you see this 84 protest here in front of Parliament? Confection boards, paid strikers, etc. So, guys, what's that? So what is lobbying in BiH? So give the people, so that's the Council of Ministers, which has its dignity, simply represents the state of BiH, which means, I beg you, we got the same document, which I consider a provocation, I would say disrespecting this Parliament, objectively. Which means I don't blame you. The Council of Ministers, of course not, is also a partner of the organisations involved, representing agricultural producers, but cannot be the only partner. And you can't take their information uncritically. So do you know they formed an alternative BiH presidency for themselves? Do you know that? You lobby. The Alternative Presidency of BiH. It doesn't, I'm saying, that's what I'm saying, which means give it more, let's get in the middle of it once. Every honour of merhametluku and correlations and conversations with associations, but I ask you to use your data, analysis you have, you have entity ministers, do an analysis of what counterpart Špirić says, convince this parliament that it has a real justification. I can assure you once again, I know the well-wished chicken machinery industry in BiH. And you can't convince us simply that otherwise, in that sense, no matter how much respect you give, we didn't stray into this House here. Which means, please, without any criticism, simply making you responsible, the Council of Ministers offered us and returned the same document, the same without anything. I'm just asking this, answer me. Why didn't you, in this document, suggest a policy of import contingents, say from the area of the detergent industry, washing, cleaning, watch every night on television in front of the half-eight most advertised. We have a painful detergent industry at European level. We have eleven components that are introduced into the production of one detergent, and it's usually seven components. It works with 28 capacities. For a year and a half, they've been sending you memos to limit imports of simply detergents that make up competition for domestic production. No way, Mr. Secretary. I'm telling you, you have a request from the Tuzla factory to limit the imports of detergents. But lobbys do their job. I don't know what else to do here. Really, take it and do your job. So, as a whole with economic analysis, prove one whole package of change in customs policy in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12372	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12373	To be really brief, not in this form in which the predecessors said. Last time the prime minister said that. If the premiums had been given to agricultural producers, we would not have had this situation in BiH, etc. And they could have gotten it, and the entities did their part. Pam, we don't need these measures, if there are already measures in the end, but the problem is that they don't happen at entity level. He's got money. There's money, because it's said here. The second thing, these all measures here, which are proposed here, are paliative and to the detriment of our manufacturing producers. That's for sure. And why so, allow me in an analysis of 15 former European Union countries, all countries have a state-level agriculture ministry. Almost all countries have a clear sector development strategy and the need for single legislation. Everyone has a unique economic space and a well-solved protection of domestic production. They resolved the issue of institutions needed to control transparent exports and imports. In a horizontal sense, they have imported, says smart, reprocessing and thronging activity. Large material resources allocated to support the agricultural product sector. 85 Therefore, allow me that these are measures that we must implement in Parliament and we will launch an initiative on the establishment of a state-level agriculture ministry, because with this kind of work, we have no chance of stopping at green branches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12374	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. ... The Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, in accordance with Article 105, we first declare ourselves on the procedure. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the request of the Council and to vote now. So, the law has a simple majority, but it's 16 from the Federation, 3 from the RS law goes to compliance. So, the College will do it in time, according to the Rules of Procedure. Can we consider it now? So, he didn't have consent in college and we're going to the second round of voting. Now we're voting from the Federation, who's against the vote now? Who's against the Federation? We are now moving on to a statement from the RS MPs. Please state who's against the RS? Vote now. Therefore, the Council of Ministers' request for consideration of this law, in accordance with Article 105 of the procedure adopted. We are now pleading to the law itself. We now plead as Home in general. Please plead. We're pleading in full on the law. Vote now. So the law didn't get the necessary majority, please with 9 votes for and 24 against, abstention. I realize the law didn't get the necessary majority and it fell. We're going to point 5. I suggest we work a little faster, give a break, and we'll try really work today quality. Thank you very much. Ad.5. Novaković for an Momčilo and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Public Television System and the Public Radio Television Service of BiH, pursuant to Article 104 of the Law on the Foundations of the Public Television System and the Public Radio Television Service of BiH, We're only pleading today about the procedure. Please make your point, I'm opening a debate if there's any need. I owe you one. There's no need. Please state the request of Mr. Momčilo Novaković to consider the draft law supplementing the law on the basis of public television and public radio service, in accordance with Article 104. Vote now? With 31 votes in, 4 against, no one abstention. 18 from the Federation, 13 from the RS, was accepted by MP Momčilo Novaković for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Public Television System and the Public Radio-Television Service, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I thank you and we move on to point 6. 86 Ad.6. A request by MP Tihomir Gligorić to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I'm opening a motion hearing. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make a statement on the request of Agent Tihomir Gligorić to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Expensive Service, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please vote. Vote now. I agree that the request by MP Tihomir Gligorić was accepted unanimously by 36 votes in favour. Thank you. Moving to point 7. Ad.7. The proposal for a law on State Agency for Investigation and Protection in Second Reading As you know at last session of the Bill on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection we adopted in the first reading. You also know that we then touched the amendments submitted by representatives of Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Petar Kunić, calling for Article 94(3)a. I'm opening an amendment debate. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12375	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that amendments to the Law on the State Agency for Investigations and Protection are not about new aspects, which were not known to the Commission. Of course, that's what I said last time. The Chairman of the House has the right, of course in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to treat it in the way he thinks it should be treated and I cannot challenge it, but I want to tell you, therefore, what is the essence of the debate at the Commission's session itself and the defence and security policy. So, the text of the law offered to be the Agency's headquarters in Sarajevo and that the Agency has at least two regional centres in Banja Luka and Mostar. That was one solution that was on the Council of Ministers. There's a deputy minister here and he can explain that thing. And the second solution was not to specify the seat at all, but not to specify even regional centres. These things were known to us on the Commission, even the amendment was submitted to write instead of Sarajevo, that it would be decided by the Council of Ministers, gave up the amendment, and the Commission laid down the text of the law as it established it. So, I think it is in principle today that we support the text of the law as established by the Commission, that the seat should remain as it is written in the law in Sarajevo, because if this amendment were accepted and it was written that the Council of Ministers would determine the seat of the Agency, then we would be unprincipled, the second part of the Council of Ministers' alternative to regional centres would remain in the law, and the first part relating to the seat would not remain in the law. Therefore, I believe that, first today's amendment should not be considered an amendment, but should it be considered an amendment and vote against the law and, of course, vote for the law afterwards. It's simple and it's my commitment. I needed to explain this matter to you once again as the Vice-President of the Defence and Security Policy Commission here at the pay phone to let you know what it was about. So much and thank you. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12376	I thank Mr. Džaferović, but I think it is very correct for the amendments delivered within the deadline, according to the Rules of Procedure, to be treated here. Everyone can make a statement about them, but I think it's also correct and we need to get into trouble. Mr. Zorić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12377	I want to say a few words because I was on this committee and I wish the reporter in our home from this commission had passed on the real situation. So the truth is that Mr. Zrno, because it was the same amendment that was submitted to the Joint Commission and that, after the almost incident situation, he gave up the amendment after various pressures, and the representatives of the OHR had silenced their letter which they had divided into benches at that moment and of course we did not even have time to read it, and the letter said that OHR considers that the current provision determining that the SIP headquarters in Sarajevo is politically difficult to meet the above priorities of this institution. The OHR therefore proposes to return the previous formulation allowing the BiH Council of Ministers to decide on SIP headquarters after all information concerning financial and operational efficiency is available. So the HDZ Club, and I don't particularly have any interest in standing up to one provision or another. But the truth is, I'm saying this, and we're going to support these amendments in principle. It really doesn't matter to us. We know if we look at what everyone in this house is counting on, if it comes to their party, their homelands, etc. Then they're a little different. We know that it will be neither in Ljubusko nor in Tomislav City, nor in Orasje, so in some of the municipalities, or centres, or Knights, or Mostar where HDZ has the majority, or where most of the Hrvat are. But for principle reasons, and especially because OHR didn't draw attention to this, we're going to support this amendment, because we're going to adopt some amendments and then they're responding from OHR. We even moved on to the Police Officers Act. Let's get back to that law, what we've adopted isn't good, so it's re-voted, giving up, etc. So for these reasons, I think it was correct for the representatives of the OHR at that session to warn us. And as for this alternative, I respectfully respect my colleague Džaferović, I really didn't hear her, because I, as a member of the commission, would have respected her. But there will be regional centres in Banja Luka and Mostar. I think it's just saying it won't be a seat. So it's not some kind of obstacle for us to leave the Council of Ministers. I think the Council of Ministers will decide that it will be in Sarajevo. And I say the HDZ Club has no interest, but for principle reasons we will support this law and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12378	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12379	Again, to repeat the occasion means that this amendment stands and I just want to say that this amendment does not mean that this seat will not be in Banja Luka. I also want to take one turn, once again to draw attention to the letter that we met here and the letter from the Agency that we got and look at in a year and a half, in October there will be two years of what the SIP Agency went through and what it came through. What objects have they passed? From the Sarajevo Police House, the Union Invest building, BH Bank, Energoinvest, not to add any more. And then we had the situation of gentlemen 88 that an interresor group was formed along with OHR's suggestion and this EU Police Mission to seek a permanent solution to the accommodation of such an important service. However, we are now going after a temporary solution, a settlement by contract. Secondly, what I'm saying is that the more accurate and accurate definition we've heard from the representatives of the international community is that we here spend the most on the issue of the law on seats. About the content of the law is talked about for an hour, on the commission half an hour, and then on the seats you can do all day. So you can leave and go out and call and someone who's gonna put pressure on others, and I don't think that's right at all, and there's any justification. I also think that what's going on with the seat under points 10 and 11. Because you see, once there's an excuse that something is too expensive. This may be an excuse, and the second time nothing is expensive to achieve that goal. It really doesn't make sense, and I think we should have the same archaic towards everyone and that on the Council of Ministers to be in line right now, I think it's the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission based on points 10 and 11 that our council of ministers is trying to find one way to solve the problem of the headquarters and that it's all over Bosnia and Herzegovina to create a dispersion that will be real, because we can't make Bosnia and Herzegovina in just one place. I think that the real demands of different regions and I don't go to Mostar or Banja Luka at all, in particular, to make one scheme and act according to that scheme. If that happens, then we won't have this story about how we almost had it. We've got her today. Maybe we'll have it again tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12380	I don't have any more logs. Mrs. Palavrić. Would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12381	If you'll just let me have one reminder. As far as I can remember, the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, I think it is impossible to set up an administrative organisation, which is the SIP, without the establishment act being established as a seat. In particular, given the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission, which I strongly support, that the Council of Ministers actually sits down and builds a network of headquarters of all organisations, all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think those two reasons are enough not to accept the amendment and not to touch the SIP Act when it comes to this. Otherwise, we should really unpack and then touch the whole member, touch both Sarajevo and Banja Luka and Mostar, and they're still challenging the impalementation of the law and that fight we say we're incompetent at the state level, because there's still no possibility of fighting the greatest evils of today. I therefore appeal that my colleague and colleague give up their amendments so that there will be no vote, and that perhaps next month we have a whole network of seats for all BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12382	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. It's a closed debate. If they have amendments, they do not give up the amendment. The amendments are the same in content, so I suggest we make a statement on the amendment and Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. It's the same about. Okay. It's the same content, and different formulations are not the same. Okay. 89 I therefore propose that we respect Mr. Kunić's request and discuss it first, we vote on his amendment. I wanted to because it's the lady we're talking about giving her, but good. We are voting on the amendment and Mr. Petar Kunić and on the amendment and Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. I will read to you -- the SIP headquarters is determined by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will decide on the SIP headquarters. So they're the same. Please make your statement on these amendments. Vote now. 16 for, 19 against, 3 abstentions. The amendments didn't get the necessary majority. We move to a statement on the proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection in general in the second reading. Please plead. Vote now. With 35 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, I find that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the proposal for a law on the state agency for investigation and protection in the second reading. Thank you very much. Moving to point 8. That's Ad.8. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering in the second reading and this bill was adopted at the 34th session in the first reading. On the occasion of the observations presented by MP Filip Andrić at the draft law, Dom concluded that until this session, the committee in charge would once again consider the bill and submit a new report to the House. The Constitutional and Legal Commission held a session on 30 April. We got the report. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted according to an earlier report. Are there any reports? There isn't. I hereby conclude the debate and suggest that the House of Representatives declare with the House the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering in a Second Reading. Please vote now. I konstatirati that with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the bill on preventing money laundering in the second reading. Thank you. Moving to point 9. That's Ad.9. Proposal for a framework law on pledges, first reading I remind you that the proposal for this law was sent to you on 22 February this year. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on 25. The proposal for a law is under regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge. We got her report on April 20th. As you have seen in the report, the Commission adopted two amendments to the draft law and there were no amendments in the plenary phase. 90 I am opening a debate on the Proposal of the Penal Code in the First Reading. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House Representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a framework law on stakes in the first reading. Please vote now. Unanimity with 37 votes for, without protest, the House of Representatives passed a proposal for a framework law on pledges in the first reading. As there were no additional amendments and how we unanimously adopted the first reading, I suggest that the House be made known whether we will plead in the second reading. Please make your point. Vote now. 37 votes for, without prejudice, with one abstention, I agree that the House declares that the proposal for a framework law on pledges is also spoken in the second reading. I ask the House to make a statement in the second reading on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Stocks. Vote now. I find that the House, House of Representatives with 36 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions and in the second reading, passed the Proposal for a Framework Law on Bets. I thank the MPs. We're moving to the point of today's 10th agenda. That's Ad.10. The proposal for a law establishing a power transmission company in the first reading You are aware that at the 31st session on 15 March we adopted the conclusion that the competent commission is preparing a new report. A new report from the Transport and Communications Commission was sent to you on 28 April. You have the Commission's report. Just to point out that the Commission has held a discussion at home on amendments I, VII and X in a certain way. Amendments I and IX have been amended in a certain way. I am opening a debate on the bill's proposal to establish a power transmission company in the first reading. Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12383	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to try to be brief, I think you've received this report. We've been having a debate about this law for quite a long time. The Commission has since 11 proposed amendments, and on the basis of the House's conclusion that this law is being discussed again on the basis of new guidelines and arguments, we have discussed amendment number I and amendment number X. The essence of this amendment is that in some way we have returned the role of an independent member of the Governing Board of Elektroprivreda BiH to say that a compromise has been adopted where it has been said if the board of directors fails to implement an allocation of funds within 60 days then the independent member of the 91 Management Board who has the task means that within 30 days it does so which the Management Board has not done. I think the amendment was agreed by the representatives of the ministry and the OHR, and I think that the Commission was unanimous so that I hope that we will also vote for this amendment and another amendment number X in some way we have returned the role of an independent member of the board of directors to mean that he has an obligation to submit a report to the Council of Ministers and to the relevant entity governments and entity ministers. So these were the two amendments that we had objections to and which were to say to the Commission again discussed and adopted in this form as you received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12384	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Who wants another word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please state the proposal for a law establishing a power transmission company in the first reading. Vote now. With 35 votes for, one against, no one abstention, I find that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a bill establishing a power transmission company in the first reading. I suggest that the House be made aware of whether or not we will plead in the second reading. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about it. Vote now. I find that the House unanimously decided with, not unanimously, I apologize with 32 votes for, no one against, four abstentions to plead on the draft law establishing a power transmission company and in the second reading. Please, the new report has no amendments. We passed the law in our first reading on, with the fact that the Commission conducted an additional debate and that we accepted its report. That's what I mean now. Not now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12385	My amendments are no longer under any law because a new report has arrived and I have not submitted amendments to the new report. So forget those amendments. They were in the function of those earlier reports. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12386	We have pleaded as the House to plead on this law and in the second reading. And I suggest we make a statement about this law now. Go ahead, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12387	I do not dispute, of course, the need and decision of the House to make a statement in the second reading, which does not mean that it will not be declared if there are amendments, or that we will not enter into the debate in the second reading. 92 I delivered the 20th in accordance with Article 94(3), point 94 of the second amendment that was not subject at all to the last re-session of the commission. So they weren't the subject of a debate at a committee meeting. So the Commission has not again stated on these amendments and they have been delivered directly to the House session and when I have already taken the amendment, a group of amendments in accordance with Article 94(3) concern certain powers of an independent member or even technical amendments to the law, so let's say a specific amendment that speaks, because it says that instead of text an independent member will seek to regularly convene meetings, I suggest that...an independent member will regularly convene meetings. Why? A set of consequences an independent member can make with his decision. So he'll be calling, not trying. What he was trying to do, he didn't call. He can always explain that he tried and failed. What's the matter? I don't understand Secretary Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12388	There are no amendments to this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12389	Go ahead and finish the debate, Mr. Novaković. I already said that here, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12390	I won't finish the debate if there are no amendments. I'm talking about the amendments they have, if there's no amendments, there's no my debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12391	But I already told you there are no amendments. We have a report from the commission in charge since 27 April this year, signed by Mr Miloš Jovanović. And that's what we have this one
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12392	Article 94, paragraphs 2 and 94, points 3 and 3 shall refer to the amendments following the meeting of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12393	They're not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12394	So it's about amendments that can come after the commission's meeting, not the commission's meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12395	But after the new report, you don't have an amendment, Momčilo. You have amendments after an earlier report that fell into the water and the amendments with him fell together.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12396	Am I to blame as an amendment that the Commission has not considered amendments? 93
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12397	You should have repeated the amendments after a new report from the commission. That's the whole joke. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12398	Okay. I tried to explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12399	And you didn't do it, so there's no amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12400	I think gentlemen I'm right, but I think you've lost sight of something, but it's no problem at all. So I'm not giving up on this, they're going to vote on how to vote, but you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12401	Please, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12402	I can't be blamed as an amendment promoter because the commission hasn't considered the amendments and because someone hasn't taken the amendments that I sent directly to the House of Gentlemen, not the Commission. Directly at the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12403	Please, Mr. Novaković, just to be clear, you can see that I, as the chairman, was just a moment ago in the previous point, although there were different opinions treated by amendments that came in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on time to this home. I have not received such amendments as the chairman nor has the Secretary of the House received. So the thing is really procedurally clean. There are no subsequent amendments according to the Rules of Procedure, a new Commission report. I mean, it's a clean situation, absolutely. Why this happened, how I can't get into it right now, but it's not my responsibility as president or secretary of the House. Mr. Jovanović, did you want the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12404	Well, all you can see is that we're clear. The Commission has decided not to discuss any new amendment. However, we did not have a discussion in the second reading. So the commission had already adopted 11 amendments and it was up to me to say within the planned deadline of the new amendments that were to go to the House. I think that might have been a little confusing. So the question now is whether those amendments that are proposed are valid, because the commission did not discuss the new amendments, because that is what we agreed on. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12405	I thank Mr. Jovanović. We have not received amendments that we can now declare in the second reading. We have a proposal for a bill with a report from the competent commission and, please, since we have determined that, as the House, we will declare ourselves today in a second reading to make a statement in the second reading on the proposal for a law establishing a power transmission company in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 33 votes for, no one against, 3 abstentions and with the necessary entity majority adopted a bill on the establishment of an electricity transmission company and in a second reading. I thank the MPs. Is there a need for a break, for a break? Let's work. Thank you very much. Moving to point 11. That's Ad.11. Proposal for a law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is a complicated name ahead of us. First reading. We have the same situation as on the previous wheel. In addition to this report, the committee further proposed that the House adopt the conclusion of the following content - taking into account the previously executed distribution, the seats of newly formed state institutions, authorities of the administration and other independent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina are entrusted to the Council of Ministers as well as other competent institutions that, when proposing and setting up the headquarters of such an institution, they have an obligation to evenly dislocate seats in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12406	Here in this bill of law and the only disputed amendment was the headquarters of an independent system operator. And then the situation appeared that because a HDZ member proposed the amendment that he could, and did not have to be referred to the cost that pulls the seat behind him, the situation across Bosnia and Herzegovina appeared to be against such an important law. And so it was done, no matter what the Commission adopted the amendment, and the Committee of the Transport and Communications House has nine members, one of which is a member of the HDZ commission. But regardless, HDZ is guilty, etc. etc. An additional report is required. There was no reason for an additional report, no million in change of seats. I'm the bearer of that amendment. The man from ZECC, I think he's the director, he's caused nothing to send letters to the MPs in this house, nothing challenged. How come he has the right to write letters and to lie about how much it costs to move NOS from Sarajevo to Mostar. He wrote, I don't have it here, but 19 million and 200 thousand marks. Here. And now only one piece of information. The cost of moving 25 employees, 350 thousand marks. Motivation of employees for the transfer of 500 grand. And you gentlemen MPs, if you have a salary of 2,000, then the paper says you have five grand. And you see only for the motivation of 25 employees that's 500 grand, so by employed 20,95 grand for motivation. And no one's talking about it. But now it can be a little funny for all of us, because it's the whole seat of Sara. And now we can laugh a little bit and let Zorić talk for 5 or 10 minutes and forget it and we'll make a conclusion that's never gonna happen. So it won't disperse the seats. And it's always stuck, it's always stuck when it comes to the seat. We just saw it when the SIP was involved. So the OHR isn't being respected, and we're full of OHR mouths. In the same item, so where 850,000 marks are to be spent on moving costs, which is to be motivated, says retraining, a million marks. I'm asking why we're going to retrain workers who are already doing it. Well, there's the one that says cross that million. That's the way these people at Zekc and those people, those women, they're sorry about OHR. 11 million costs of one-year delay in EBERDE, IBEERDE project. Imagine it's not too late if it's in Sarajevo, it can be a year late, it can be two, if it's in Sarajevo. But if it's Mostar, it costs $11 million, etc. etc. So why did I give up the amendment? All my colleagues know this, and Jovanović is here, and ruža is gone, and Bešlagić is there, and Huskić is there, so that people don't embarrass themselves. The members of the Commission of the same committee who adopted the amendment have changed their minds and I did not want people to be embarrassed. So once they accept that amendment and take it later, because the vote would be 4:1:1:1. 4 for, 1 against, pardon 1 for, 1 abstention and 4 against. If it were to vote for the amendment. So that's how the vote would be, we're not gonna talk about who it would be. So we have all three variants. Everyone can be classified into whatever they want, but I know all 6 members of the Commission know and the vote would be 1 for the amendment, 1 abstention and 4 against. I will, I will leave it to the members of the HDZ Club, so I am not the one who determines this law to vote however it pleases, but for principle reasons, I will be against it. I'm sorry, my hand was on that committee, no matter how quiet we were.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12407	Here's Mr. Zorić, thank you. Anybody else want one? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12408	Well, I would, since I've had another amendment that won't be considered, I'm really now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12409	It can be interpreted and you do not deliver the amendment in time, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12410	Wait a minute, I delivered the amendment on February 20th. Please, colleague Raguž, the chairman. The Commission discussed it in the first session and refused. And she didn't argue with him that way, but she turned him down. She was not discussing those she refused, only those she had accepted to refuse again. So she debated and refused and I repeated it at the House session, which they would say according to the Rules of Procedure. And he didn't find it on the House, so now I don't know why. Now I'm going to be a little like Vinko Zorić like him, this is the style he's got. But at least I want to warn you that we have adopted the past and that we will adopt this law so that an independent member can exercise the rights of the owner. I asked at this session of the Commission if there was a case in practice and in the world that one man could take over the role of shareholders in whatever conditions and in the conditions of war. And this is happening in terms of peace. And I asked to be told 96 which is the country so we could take advantage of the country's positive experiences. And I didn't get an answer, and that's why I've made an amendment to see that someone in additional reasoning like Mr. Zorić's will say what country it is and how much it would cost if he didn't have the authority. So I am convinced that we have made a mistake here, not by voting for the law and against the law, but by not taking into account the Rules of Procedure and the possibility to declare our amendments. But it's not a problem for us today, so there's no problem. I can't, I won't be in favor of the law, and even if we discussed amendments, it would be hard for a law where an independent member can take the rights of the owner and have the property when he thinks and evaluates it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12411	I thank Mr. Novaković. Is there more? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12412	...maybe that's funny, but I was really trying to get the Commission to try the arguments, and that's why I called on the representatives of ZECC and the representatives of the Elektroprivreda Herceg Bosnia and the representatives of the Elektroprivreda, or the Power Transfer Company of Republika Srpska, to really try to prove with arguments whether it costs 19 million and 200 thousand or it costs 115 thousand as the other side said. I got the impression, I think the members of the Commission, that they really couldn't convince us either one of us that it was killing so much, and it seems to me that this was a more realistic colleague from Herceg Bosnia because they said, "Let it be in Mostar, we'll do it for 115 thousand marks, and all the more we can be our expenses." I here, regardless of what I want to say about the correctness of my HDZ colleagues who pulled that amendment, and I think, really, I repeat that the representatives of the electorate have failed to convince us that it costs 19 million, but it is much less.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12413	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Anybody else want to talk about this? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. So I suggest we make a statement about the bill in the first reading. This includes this conclusion proposed by the Commission to the House. Please state the proposal for a law establishing an independent system of operators in the first reading. Vote now. I agree that with 24 votes for, against 3, the abstention of 1, a sufficient entity majority, was passed a bill on the establishment of an independent system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Would you like to make a statement in the second reading? I ask the House to state whether we will decide on this law and in the second reading. Vote now. With 27 votes in favour of, 2 against, 2 abstentions, the dom accepted, by an entity majority enough, the House accepted to plead on the bill's proposal and in a second reading. 97 Please state the proposal for a law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a second reading. Vote now. I find that with 25 votes for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, the enough entity majority, the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed a bill establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a second reading. I thank the MPs. We're moving to agenda 12. That's Ad.12. A review of the motion by representatives to vote on non-confidentiality by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina You received a motion to vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers submitted by a group of deputies on 31.3 this year. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 116(3) of the proposal, I remind you, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples was presented to the representatives, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have received a timely notice that the Council of Ministers is familiar with the initiative of a group of deputies, and the Council of Ministers has writtenly assessed that there are no valid reasons for this. I'm opening an initiative debate. Please, let me remind you, even before the chairman of the Council of Ministers arrives and arrives, that according to Article 119. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1. - each of the motions has the right to explain at the House's session a proposal to vote for non-confidential to the Council of Ministers, as well as paragraph 2 that the Council of Ministers has the right to respond to its position, after which it opens a general debate. I am opening a debate on the request of representatives to vote on mistrust by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12414	I answer the word, Mr. Chairman, just so we can end this here. It's really not serious that we're having this debate here in a situation where there's practically no one here from the Council of Ministers. This is really the easiest thing to say. That's why I'm really suggesting, since you are certainly the Council of Ministers has broken the business deadline. According to Article 116, we signed that on 31.3. Today we have practically received an answer, although according to the Rules of Procedure it took 20 and 30 days for here to be found on the agenda. It's been 30 days. By the way, the Council of Ministers has sent us, you can see, brought this letter, which was the least said inconclusive, 15.4. And we got it three weeks after they're this, it's not exactly a big deal, so they needed to knock it down for three weeks. So, don't make a farce out of this, so I'm really proposing that we do this for the next session fine, please. It's just today, isn't it? 98
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12415	Please report for a hearing and respect the Rules of Procedure, as I respect it. The agenda item has been established by Mr Lagumdžija. You as applicant of the application
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12416	Okay. Then I'm looking on behalf of the SDP MPs' club for half an hour's break to see if anyone's coming here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12417	As long as it's now. Did you ask for a break? We'll continue at 7:30. At the request of the SDP Club. Good at seven and 35. We'll continue at seven and 35. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Stanku was looking for the SDP Club. Does anyone want it on behalf of the club? Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12418	I thank you, Mr. Raguž
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12419	And please just before the debate, so let's go with the subject, not about the suggestions that were just a moment ago, whether it's justified or not, I think it was all correct and get back to the point of the agenda now. Here we also have the presence of Mr Andan Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers who was also invited. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12420	Since we were looking for a break, I would only suggest that we see whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers will speak to us before we begin, because otherwise it might turn out incorrect that the man came, after we expected him, and yet he doesn't get the chance to take the first word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12421	Mr. Lagumdžija, before the debate, I thought it was correct to be correct. Before the debate, I read the Rules of Procedure. So first you have the opportunity to explain the proposal you've submitted. After you, the Council of Ministers has the right to respond and state its views. It's business and I'm, please, I know I've read it correctly, so there's no need to open it that way right now. It's your move. That's where he said I'm the president, he's gonna do what he thinks needs to be done. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12422	Mr. Chairman, so the reason why I said this, I'd be happy to, as soon as I get a chance to say what's normal. However, I am sorry I did not hear there, but the reason why I wanted to offer that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers address us because the notice we received from him does not give what the Council of Ministers is expected to give us as an answer for which it is, here sees a 30-day period broken, so that is the reason Mr. Chairman why I offered Mr. Terzić to address us. However, since none of this has anything to do with it, then I believe that this 20th letter that we received today is all river. Namely, the Council of Ministers, I'd like to speak first of all about the legal reasons whether the procedural nature of how this happened, and then to say the real reasons. The very answer that we received today from the Council of Ministers, which we can read as a whole, is that the Council of Ministers has informed us that at session 15.4, I am underlining 15.4. has come to know the initiative of a group of Members and has assessed that there are no valid reasons for this. That's the complete explanation we got. This argument itself speaks of what the Council of Ministers thinks of this parliamentary assembly and what it thinks of itself. Because this says more about them than it does about us. Namely, this one sentence took 15 days for the Council of Ministers for this one sentence, and then it took 20 days for the Council of Ministers to throw it to us through their services. I am saying this because the Council of Ministers has already shown how much it does not hold up to this Parliament, because according to the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, Parliament was supposed to declare this 20 days after the initiative and no later than 30 days after the initiative. We could have discussed this very simply in the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm saying because I'm probably not the only one who repeats often that the procedure itself is an integral part of the democratic relations between us that need to rule. Let me remind you how this happened. We can't forget that. The reason, namely, was not an act that took place on March 31st. It's March 31st, we got one reason to talk about this today. Namely, then, the respected Mr. Novaković, as president of the SDS MPs' club, informed the public that the SDS no longer supports the Council of Ministers, or that it is not participating in the parliamentary majority. And given the facts and the state we are in and the challenges ahead of us, it would be natural that, after such a statement by the president of the SDS's Club of Representatives, things become more visible than they have become very sad in these 35 days that followed. So, once again I want to tell you that the reason for this exposure today and our exposure and this point of the agenda was the fact that the SDS informed us that it was no longer part of the parlamentary majority. What happened in the meantime? What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the figures that we, at least part of us who is the beginner of this initiative, have characterised as, I will use one word, so with shameful figures in some elements. In fact, 100,000 marks of conversion budgets have been allocated to Corridor V-c in which the Council of Ministers informed this parliament and the BH public a year ago that in three years' time it will end the production of the Corridor V-c project and that we will get it for nothing. After a year went by, after nothing was done on that plan, we got a budget in this year with a letter and a number of miles in it for Corridor V-c. Then the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I thought it was a bigger effect when we launched this initiative, but he reiterates that he can do without the parlamentary majority and without the support of 100 parliaments and that we should just let them work. To be very clear, the President of the Council of Ministers of Parliament's majority, which I belong to, and thank God, is not, but by any chance true, that the President of the Council of Ministers of Parliament's majority where I was and in every democratic country would say that he can do so without Parliament and without a parliamentary majority, that would be sufficient reason for that parliamentary majority to either be changed or to change such a Council of Ministers president. We can also read with, here, only some of the reasons that happened in the meantime, in the meantime, that unfortunately, European Commissioner Kris Paten warns us, through our media and from international heights, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has unfortunately slowed down its initial enthusiasm for the arrival of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When you add all that to today's press, it's in one newspaper, so come on, come on. However, you can also see today a statement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that after Stej de Partment published a report on the state of terrorism in the world, after a sentence was given there – the arrival of the national parties slowed down activities in the fight against terrorism, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the only comment he has on this is to inform the BH public and he has nothing to do with it, that the Council of Ministers has nothing to do with, but that they already have some lower instances and that he will take responsibility when he has intelligence and the SIP, which, by the way, is said to be 6 million marks in the budget and already has people or as many. Normally, we have the Ministry of Security, who is sitting in the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers at the Ministry of Security, and they all have nothing to do with terrorism together. That's why someone else is responsible. It speaks of a lack of leadership in this council of ministers when it comes to implementing reforms. Let me cut it short. We believe that the problem is not the personal nature we have today, but simply this is no longer how we can behave and stick our head in the sand that we do not know who is part of the parliamentary majority, to whom this council of ministers is responding, to whom it marks, if it does not mark this parliament, and that we are not talking about today's events that were related to the Law on Higher Education, which is the most radical example of how it has shown and within the ruling majority there is no unelementary mutual respect that I would not specifically speak of. So today, we need to make this clear and make ourselves clear. If the Council of Ministers remains in its full capacity today, then that means that the SDA, HDZ and the SDS together with the PDP and the Party for BiH today have once again taken responsibility to continue doing this together. You can explain later what you want, that one is for, that one is against, one is abstention, that it is from to etc., that it is valid, that it is not valid and that I know, but the result of this vote will show whether this coalition, which has chosen this council of ministers, is still responsible for implementing reforms. We believe that reforms are being carried out slowly, that reforms are being implemented not systematically enough, and we believe that this council of ministers should today, if they get your support, that this here is being strengthened by this session of parlametan and that it is rapidly moving towards taking responsibility for what it should have done a long time ago. We consider this today's session to be good, even as it is, because after this everyone will do their job one more time and verify it to the BH public. If the Council of Ministers doesn't get support then that means there's enough critical mass between us to understand what people in this country think, which is that this state of economic and social that's happening in our country needs to be interrupted. Not to interrupt personal changes, but to end the formation of the governing structure in the way it is today. 101 And finally, Mr. Chairman, I think that we need very clearly today to draw the line, so that we can see whether the SDA, HDZ and the SDS with the PDP and the BiH Party continue to be the political owners of this council of ministers and as such fit for his work and we want them as an opposition that in that case all the successes that have been achieved to record to themselves, but all the failures and delays to take into their balance sheet. And I hope that Mr. Novaković and any of us, or of you from the ruling coalition, after this will be in a much clearer position. You're here together, there's no reason not to be, if that's your will.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12423	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is possible that this can be characterized, this presentation of the representative of Lagumdžija by principle – the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. So I really didn't hear a single argument, apart from any newspaper articles, I didn't hear any more arguments which would make me vote on the Council of Ministers' trust at this time, the House of Representatives of the Parlametarian Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just to say the last thing Mr Lagumdžija said, as far as I understand the Rules of Procedure and the Initiative, it is not today that the Council of Ministers is voting on the initiative launched by the representative of Lagudmžij and one of the representatives of the House of Representatives. So they have launched an initiative that will be voted on today, not whether there is any trust in the Council of Ministers or not. To be quite precise, as the Honorable representative of Lagumdžija likes to say, why the initiative did not come to the agenda, it is not a matter resolved by the Council of Ministers or by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but by the College of the House of Representatives. Believe me, I was surprised why so long. I assumed it was a matter of sufficient number of MPs who launched this expensive initiative. It seems to me that they've been on some roads and they haven't been in the country, and I have to admit it's not easy working on that sword that someone wants to vote your mistrust and it's been going on for days. It is a strong pressure, a negative pressure on the Council of Ministers, which is certainly reflected in the pace of reform. But I see it as a constructive contribution to our European path from Mr Lagumdžija and the parts of the MPs who signed this initiative. Budget, if you're taking Mr. Lagumdžija as an argument to vote for mistrust in the Council of Ministers, I think you're smoking in the wrong direction. As far as I know by the Constitution, the budget is being sent to you by the Presidency, and the presidency actually needs to defend the budget. Unfortunately, if you have certain complexes that these people don't have at your meetings, don't treat it through the Council of Ministers. So, the sole constitutional authority is that the budget is sent to the Parliamentary Assembly by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if something is wrong with that budget, then it should be voted on phasing, if possible, and I'm afraid it is not, the Presidency. I'm not sure I've made a statement that I can do without this parliament and I don't think any Prime Minister and the chairman of the world can actually make that statement. You may have pulled something out of the context of why you're a master, but I don't see why you would now try to turn the representatives of the parliamentary majority towards this council of ministers. And I'm sure that the statements that 102 you made about today's news articles about this fight against terrorism have gotten you all out of context, but good. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I would like to say that I believe that this Council of Ministers is surely leading Bosnia and Herzegovina along its European path. This council of ministers started a serious dialogue and for the first time had a partnership with the European Commission. Thanks to our initiative and our insistence, we started making physibilities of studies, we got a positive physibility study, we got a number of conditions that we participated in, and if you remember, and I remember that on the package of measures proposed by the Council of Ministers at the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina that you were constantly raising the physibilities of the study and saying that you should support the study rather than the package of measures of this council of ministers. If you remember in that physibility study absolutely no deadlines stand. The European Commission said it expects Bosnia and Herzegovina to make progress according to these 16 focused priorities by the end of 2004 and that after this seen progress, it will consider approving the start of negotiations for the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This Council of Ministers and I are personally seeking to take advantage of the opportunity and the positive relationship of this calls on the European Commission and towards the Western Balkans region, and to come in a position that possibly the European Commission begins to agree to start negotiations on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, so that it is absolutely not true that this Council of Ministers is gossiping about some of the deadlines that the European Commission, OHR, has given these are the deadlines which are the product of our policy and our desire to speed up the pace of reforms in BiH, that as far as possible, we have introduced more segments into European standards this year and to show ourselves as a worthy partner to the European Commission. What we have on the dream today, if we look at the realization of measures, 45 measures resulting from the physibilities of conditions, the physibilities of studies, I can say that the Council of Ministers absolutely follows the dynamics, the necessary dynamics, not according to the deadlines, but according to which we should show visible progress in all 16 priority areas. We may, for some of the following, normally if today's initiative by Mr Lagumdžija and parts of the MPs do not receive the necessary majority, we can offer a report on the implementation of these priorities for one of the next session of the House of Representatives. And I must say that, finally with last Thursday, so far, we have sent 22 laws into parliamentary procedure, directly from the package of measures, that this moment the working groups have completed the preparation of 12 legislative regulations, that within the Directorate for indirect taxation, together with KAFA, work to complete the seven legislative regulations and that in principle every measure in the 16 priority areas is being implemented. And by who knows what time I want to make it clear that this Council of Ministers will fully implement this package of measures by the middle of the year and I hope that we will have both support and this part of the Parliamentary House of BiH that has launched an initiative to vote on the confidence of the Council of Ministers. Here, that would be what I think it's important to say in view of the introduction Mr. Lagumdžija submitted. I think I've given a lot more elements to vote against his initiative than he has, reading certain newspaper articles, expressed his views against the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12425	I thank Mr. Terzić. The word is Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Potočnik. Please stick to that deal, try to finish today's agenda and make 103 possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12426	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow MPs, since I am in some way both directly and indirectly called about this item of the agenda, I must first say that clearly my colleagues have not heard or listened well. And they obviously don't hear or listen to me very well here very often. Well, that's the way it is. They didn't hear what I said. They could have taken a stenogram to see what I said. And if they'd heard that, they'd probably have thought about it a little before they started the initiative, or maybe they'd have put me on the list first. I'm astounded as I'm not here, so next to me Miloš, I'll continue, since we're the ones who, like this, said that the Council of Ministers no longer has our support. Ladies and gentlemen, I made it perfectly clear then, and it can be checked in a stenogram, that we will review our support to the Council of Ministers on the one hand, and on the other hand that the Council of Ministers will only have our support on those projects, so only on those projects that are in the interest of RS. I made it quite clear, as I am now quite clear. I also said the reasons why I said it, and these are the last steps, very high-ranking SDA and Mr. Sulejman Tihić compared to RS. So my reasons are not the reasons for Mr Lagumdžija, and they are not the result of a desire for authority, but the result of a very different situation, or a completely different view. But, well, I'm saying it probably wouldn't have come to this if we'd listened or at least listened to each other till the end. Of course we, as far as the club is concerned, have a very clear view here. And it's not just on this one, but on every other issue, and we're going to make it as clear as I've been saying so far and in my own and in the name of the club. It seems here, that the most important result of this initiative is actually proof whether the SDA, HDZ, SDS and the PDP and the BiH Party work together. It seems that's all that's left of this initiative, since everything else is obvious that it's not even interesting for the press, because none of them are here, and I guess it would be logical to have a lot of journalists here when it's being discussed about the Council of Ministers' trust. I have to say my course of view, that we don't work together, but we work together against you and that's our attitude. And that's why you're the opposition and we're the position. And in some other version, you may be the position and we may be the opposition. What's the point? I think more goals have been achieved. First of all, I'm not going to answer any lines, because I don't see any reason for that, but we've achieved a few goals here. So we showed that you work together. We have shown that they work together even Mr. Blagojević who is not here, and Mr. Lagumdžija. It's a tough but possible combination. Obviously possible. We have shown that together those who are against reforms and those who voted against reforms and those who voted for all reforms are working, so they are asking for a vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers. We gentlemen, on all and one law that the Council of Ministers proposed and anyone else, acted and amended, so where we considered it necessary, we acted again where we considered it necessary and that it was in the interest of the way we acted. Whether it's reform or not, it's a whole other question and whether we're reformists or not, I don't want to talk about it. That's not the end of the topic. But what it is is certain, that I would very difficult some other occasion to put together this list. I'm afraid there's no cause except for the desire for power to put this list together. We'll make it perfectly clear. Gentlemen, this Council of Ministers is in the same relationship, i.e. the Serbian Democratic Party is in the same relationship with this Council of Ministers as at the previous session. So we're going to be very critical of everything and one project and all and one project that we don't consider useful, we're going to refuse. That's what we've been doing, and so far it seems to me, at least in the last few sessions. And there's no need for you gentlemen to worry at least not you to take care of 104 SDS. So I don't expect you to show that concern about the behaviour of the SDS. I have to say, and it's good when you're giving this initiative, which is just what I'm not sitting here and I've started all that avalanche, that I'll never vote for the Council of Ministers for which they vote here on this list and I'll never vote against the Council of Ministers with those who are on this list. The moment I feel the need and the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party, and when we vote, then we will be the necessaries of a vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers and we will not force the authority of the opposition. So we're going to, uh, influence and submit that initiative and offer to sign. And then when we do, there'll probably be no more majority for the Council of Ministers. I think in several of these sentences I have said the position of the Serbian Democratic Party, therefore, towards this initiative. Maybe some of my colleagues could go fishing with me sometimes I do it, so they realize that every hook doesn't have to be caught, that some can jump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12427	I thank Novaković, the word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik, and then Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12428	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, my motive for signing this initiative was primarily to address both the Council of Ministers and ourselves. No special desire for authority in that act. At least I didn't see it. However, now I find it incomprehensible to speak further until Mr. Terzić returns, because I want to address him right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12429	You're giving up the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12430	I'm not giving up the debate. We'll wait for the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12431	This is being decided by MPs, not by Mr. Terzić. So if you have arguments, you assure the MPs, me and the others. So, please, I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12432	Well, then I'll keep going, and we'll wait for Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12433	If you don't want to talk, I'll give
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12434	No, I want to talk. There's something I need to tell us. All parties, without exception, swore on economic reforms during the election campaign. Hand to heart, we haven't practically made any economic reform in a year and a half, as far as we've been in law enforcement, either in executive power. Therefore, we are both insecure and unserious and the Council of Ministers. Nothing has changed radically for the BiH man. And the economic reasons, which I am talking about, is that in January 2003, on my request whether there is a Council chairman plan and a crisis exit programme, 105 will resolve the economic crisis, how it will come out of this situation, the chairman replied that only at the level of a year laws are being proposed and that is the whole plan. I said at the beginning, Mr. Terzić that my basic motive for signing this initiative of seriousness was both us and you, not a desire for power or a desire for position or opposition. On March 15th, this Parliament, too, was tasked by the Council of Ministers to freeze the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries by 30 January. The Council of Ministers did not respect it, but ignored it. A development study that has actually grown from a study on the fight against poverty, has virtually no concrete elements other than a good analysis of the current situation. All this together doesn't give me the confidence that if we keep this up we're going to get out of this cover in some normal time. I'm not gonna speak emotionally right now, so let's just say that our man doesn't have time to wait, but thank Bog, you all know that. That is why I propose that this initiative, both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, accept as a reminder to itself and begin to do what must be done in one normal state, in relation to the legislative, control function and in relation to the real Council of Ministers that will deal with the problems of the economy and not just the military, the Security Service and the road to Europe. The journey to Europe is very important, but it does not solve anything unless we have solved our economic problems. Let me get this straight. I suggest once again, that you take this initiative, at least on my side, as a warning that what we're doing is not good enough and that we all have to change, whether we're in position or opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12435	I thank Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12436	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with Mr. Novaković, who unfortunately has not, who has raised the issue and quite understandable that the opposition has had a certain reaction. I believe that the SDS should make a certain radical request or a twist in terms as Mr Novaković has now said. So the exact opposite, and they surprised me that they made a bad move. First of all, they have a man in the SDS who comes up with combinations and he should have realized, that it would be good if the SDS had voted "untrusted" to the Council of Ministers, to bring them back into play, so that at least for a moment they could win the people's trust in the elections. In the end, as Mr. Novaković enters, this bad combination of SDS will ultimately have the mistrust of the people towards the SDS, instead of having now voted no confidence in the Council of Ministers and that for a moment at least return to the political campaign as one serious party. But I'm glad you made this very move, not that you like being a fisherman and that someone reacted to this one, a hook, etc. Therefore, here to say that the Council of Ministers has not done many jobs, that it has never made a serious analysis within the work of the Council of Ministers with the objective problems you have, which you are concealing. I'll give you an example. You cannot agree on a key reform law within the Council of Ministers, and then what you would say is that hairs don't come together, transfer it to Parliament, so Parliament or these obedients within the executive authorities will have to do so and that's a bad message. It is an underestimation, while Mr. Terzić says they have managed to make partner relations with the international community. The people think it's half-tronic relations and I personally think it's half-tronic relations, not partner relations, and in that situation, based on such relationships, you can't do objectively serious work. You were supposed to understand the opposition's initiative in two directions. 106 First, that the opposition is as much as anywhere, the cursor to do better and to stay in power for longer. If you were politically educated, here you would be headed by the Council of Ministers, thus giving rise without distinction whether the opposition is right. We'd hit a political slap on the opposition, but you can't do it, but simply that handful of 20 people, who backs you, thinks they're exulting over the opposition. I'm smashing it all over my head. And now I've just realized that after 13 years, political work means SDS, HDZ and the U.S.A., I actually thought that more intelligently you're running politics, because what I've seen now is really going to be very easy opponents and that calling on the past will finally be between the people and you. Now, Mr. Zorić and Jovanović, as you have so far, remember my words. Remember my words. It's not pretentious. You have two options. The first is to try based on analysis and better work, etc. really do something on the economic plan, etc. And not to talk about the economy and many other things. And the second option, Mr Zorić and Jovanović, is to seriously consider today, you three national parties that at their conventions, assemblies, clumps, etc. to the highest authorities, think and make a decision on self-decommissioning, as you once made a decision 13 years ago to form yourself. Get an analysis into these parties and you'll see that the time has matured and that social legality is immeasurable. You need to make a decision to disenfranchise national parties, each of course individually, especially for yourself. Of course, you think you have the support of the people and that all of this behind, but you know there are some new times going on and you're going to, and I already said that you're politically uneducated, you find yourself in shock very quickly. But well, that's your problem. And of course we wanted to homogenize you with this initiative, to see, to embrace, to simply say to the people for the sake of a gram of power, we're here to play the kosara wheel, because you were commies, and all the communists are honest people. In this new mile, you show that hug publicly and it will definitely be true what I was saying, that instead of voting no confidence to the Council of Ministers, all the national parties together could have had a chance to gain the trust of the people. This is how you will ultimately lose the trust of the people, which is especially important to me from the opposition, dear. So, about these things, it's too much to talk about. On the functioning of the Council of Ministers, you are objectively Mr. Chairman should have said, about these problems. Carriers, deadlines, why are there bad messages from BiH? What you're telling one story about yourself, you know, praise me for my mouth, but you don't have a concrete result. You don't have new jobs. You don't have a business. You have nothing. And that's why I'm telling you, it's not good for you. You should have listened to the constructive opposition in terms of our initiative, that we should have been your corridor, so we could do some jobs. Now I've definitely realized that you're satisfied and that you think that you will be able to rule until 2006, which I think is certainly not going to happen. Of course, it's a matter of opposition, that it always hunts down what you do badly, so that it can bring itself into a better position, not because of the government, but that the social work and the state's work finally starts working in this country on three shifts. Of course, you all come down to twenty people who support, some nine people who are half-trons towards the international community, to stay in power and not to bring BiH well in terms of the prosperity these citizens expect. So, here I am deeply convinced, I have given you some prophetic words, write it down secretly, and we will meet for a while, so that we can also agree on a policy for someone, because you do it, and I can catch up with you, see, if you'd listened to me for a long time. Thank you very much. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12437	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The Republic, or intervention, was requested by Mr. President of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, and then Mr. Špirić. Please, just call me back and you from the nationals are treated the same as these.....at my bar. So Špirić, Križanović, Zorić, Sead Palavrić, and Mr Lagumdžija. Mr. Lagumdžija, I'll tell you what it'll be, since you used pavu to argue. Excuse me, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12438	Here's probably not good at this point in the agenda, but Mr. Gligorić has every time inspired me to stop really doing politics, so I had to go out and tell him. I remember Mr. Gligorić how well-intentioned you were when I put up with the exposés, and when I was elected chairman, how well-intentioned you instructed me to go run the Geodesk administration, something that you ran this, for a while, and you messed up and I didn't listen to you. I guess I was wrong. And I was wrong just because here, a year and a few days I've been trying to come up with an analysis, because I'm a geodetic and I don't really understand myself very much in the economy, and I come up with an analysis and a vision of your Council of Ministers and you as Minister when you took part in BiH's policymaking, and BiH has never been in Europe, nor had an economic programme, etc. And I have to admit that there are already a few months that I've given up on this crazy idea, that I'm going to find some program that you and the Council of Ministers have been taking part in, so we've decided to do some things on our own, to consult civil society, which you refused as an opportunity to discuss in the way you discussed the PRSP strategy, to open a dialogue with business people in BiH, which you also refused to talk about quotas and change customs tariffs at today's session, etc. So I understand that you have a desire to help the Council of Ministers, but I must admit you've missed your chance. You could have been a respected member of that Council of Ministers by your work and activities to help BiH get a base behind you. But there's a black hole behind you that I'm slowly filling up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12439	Please make a deal. Mr. Gligori's replica, is Zorić the same? And Miličević. Is it for replicas? I'm sorry, I thought it was a request for a hearing because I didn't have a record here that they were replicas, which is why. I don't have that kind of record, you have to point out if you're in favor of a replica, you have to especially emphasize, not just you, but all of you. So Zorić, Palavrić, then Gligorić, then Miličević in order of replicas. Mr. Gligorć, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12440	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12441	I didn't take it from you. I think I'm straight 108.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12442	...here's the possibility of me talking more times than you're taking me down to speak only once in the end. Well, I'm not the chairman of talking in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12443	Well, there's no reason for you to answer as many times as you do, you'll get your word. I must respect the MPs who sought the replica before you. It's just that. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12444	I'm replicating, and along the way this one, I'll correct my colleague Gligorić. I'm not a commie. So, you're on your own when you say, so you're commies and commies are good people. And the communists, and the commies aren't. So, I've never been thanked to Bog either, whether they're good people or not. And what you're talking about is self-destruction. Probably with a ban on political action, right? Because it's the only way to save you, because if we could just break up, we'd win the election again. You would be the only salvation to ban us from political action and disband us, because what you would be, Mr Gligorić, for example Miloš Jovanović. He'd sign up for your party and be president there. And then what are you going to do? No, when the SDS disbanded, Jovanović would join his party and be president again, and Gligorić would not be anywhere. Don't complain about those combinations. Don't complain about us. We're doing the wrong thing, you're changing us in the election and we're done. And don't feel sorry for us, how we should replace the prime minister, so this minister, and all the ministers, because that's the only way to save us. Don't feel sorry for us, but make a choice... we'll try to beat you even better than we did last time. And don't feel sorry for us either.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12445	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12446	Thank you very much. I'll just replicate now, and then I'll discuss it later. I mean, these twenty people that Mr. Gligorić so misbehaves, who here represent the parliamentary majority, I think he would give a lot of, a lot for those twenty people if he had them on his side. I also mean, it's hard to expect it to happen again in 2001, and it's going to be able to scrape some alliance of twenty people without winning the election. So, without the will of the citizens and the people. Also, when it comes to national parties, I ask you to use a little respect when talking about national parties. If you did not know, in the European Parliament, the largest group is the European People's Party. So, parties that respect themselves, who invent nothing that holds water while masters leave, which lasts forever. And when you talk about political uneducated, I don't think it's right for a colleague to talk like that. And the bad messages from BiH, this is not the Council of Ministers or this parliamentary majority, but rather the people who are making opposition today with the help of the media they are managing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12447	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. The word has Tihomir Gligorić, a replica, and then Mrs. Miličević, then Mr. Jovanović. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12448	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, I was really shocked, rather than fortunately passing these few minutes, so things settled. I first thought that we got a tarabi new prophet here, so let's see what's going on, that we know exactly what's going to happen to all of us, so then I take this notebook that we got here today, and I'm surprised to see if I should take it seriously, and we should take it for granted just or take it into consideration. Does this theory have a real foothold in the people? Are we mature for self - insecure with salcomortella (?) So I look at the letter and the number of SPRS 22,126 votes, 4.32 total of one compensation mandate. And then I realize that Nika Antić was right when he wrote all sorts of things I know and I can't understand but myself. So I'm trying, I really hope I understand Mr. Gligorić and his thesis on how he should be with the people. Praise the people of man. Now, if we're a foothold like someone who's had 172 thousand votes, if we need an advisor, for the next election, if we open the competition, if it's open, we might consider it, and by then really all the remarks with a full reserve.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12449	I thank Mrs. Miličević. Mr. Jovanović has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12450	I just want to tell Mr. Gligorić that there are probably people here who were commies but they're not anymore. But there are also those who were commies and unfortunately the rest of the commies. And let me ask Mr Gligorić not to worry about the Serbian Democratic Party, that he takes care of himself and that he'll take care of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12451	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. Replica Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12452	After all, Mr. Chairman, you denied me the opportunity to respond three times, but it doesn't matter, four times. I see they turned this story on me. The chairman is running away from the O.R., who says this gymnastics worked, but it doesn't matter if it's first, now there's no Mr. Chairman to tell him that the passport he travels with is the interrelational part of the Council of Ministers and my smallness as minister. At that time, I was attacked by the SDS as this passport was bad and as they wanted others, so they took a passport, and secretly travelled with it, and the neighbour and the Srbin showed a passport from the RS and considered it to be the highlight of the good. Of course, I had a lot of problems in RS and Banja Luka at the time, but time has shown that I was right and you are walking around the world with the passport of the gentleman between the rest and Tihomir Gligorić and the Council of Ministers. Among other things, it would be good for Terzić, someone to pass on to him who is a good friend, if he had something to find in the programme of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, and it would be good if serious people had no difference between opponents to study what they were doing before, and in particular I could say about Mr Raguž as the chairman of the Council of Ministers that he was doing well, and he had always had support from me personally. So, it would be good, it's a coincidence that it's Martin Raguž now, but even if he didn't, he'd have the opportunity to study it and I'd say it's good. As for Mr. Zorić, I apologize to him if in the package I hooked up because there are really few people who weren't really little. Eh, then we smoothed it out. As far as self-decommissioning is concerned, the word self-decommissioning means making a decision and just disbanding. For example, the HDZ, as you have formed, gathered together and went well. So you can if you want. I don't think any political decision should disband any political party, so I really wouldn't have a sweet victory if that space were to be narrowed down. Therefore, I never mean it to anyone, but with as much anger as you said, I think you would destroy the opposition. Here we are tolerant yet you must admit it, because so much kind of political hatred was that in some way as Zorić says today, in the morning and I was scared in the afternoon. And it's between the rest and Mr. Zorić, because that's how I've experienced just one cry. Don't touch us until the election. Let us exercise power in peace, which is what you are constantly provoking us to do in 2006. We'll provoke you all the time. That's why we're here. Don't be mad. So when I voted for Mr. Raguž in my time, I'm against the alliance, and then Mr. Krešimir Zubak told me, and that it was just your HDZ, that I was paid. Don't say that to Tihomir Gligorić because he has principles and no money, well, I'm sorry I didn't... get it. You're not Krešimir Zubak. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12453	Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12454	And Seada, assumed something about alliances and national parties. I'm not talking about alliances, there are more competent people than me to say, but about national parties, or nationalist politics, and talk about people's parties and conservative parties in Europe, you know how much it is? Like heaven and earth. It's like between a crazy and a smart man. So don't ever say that through what you've been through. You're wrong. As for Ljiljana, and about the prediction, and about the tarabic, etc. It would be good for you to remember, within the SDS, how you walked through trees, marked the borders of the RS, dropped ribs from those trees, that you remembered it, and you thought and believed that this border would be what it is, and today you have crossed those borders and you are criticising me who as a man objectively considers that there should be no border, of course not in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12455	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12456	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, I've almost thought about whether there is any need to report for my word at all, but since you're talking about disbanding, I don't think anyone should be disbanded more than it is disbanded. Otherwise, the situation in BiH is sufficiently disbanded that the Council of Ministers stands and the people fall to their knees. And it's a picture and an opportunity for you. And I don't think the parliamentary majority should be angry that we've made your heart happy to bring the chairman to see him. And that is a sign of what the Council of Ministers has to do with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself attends this session because this does not apply to Mr Adnan Terzić but to the Council of Ministers, but also to the mutual collegiation of colleagues who think that the Council should now defend their position in the Council by Adnan Terzić. He said that this is the Council of Ministers, I would unfortunately say that this is a listed Council of Ministers. Now, as far as we can get, we'll see. He thought that... that I thought they were being led and I'd be glad to be able to congratulate them. But 111 you see this Council of Ministers, I was asked by journalists before this session, I knew the outcome of this debate, I think that only naive could believe in the honesty of the SDS and their stories here in the Parament, as naive as I can otherwise believe in stories of ruling political options at any level of BiH government. This Council of Ministers can't fall, it's lying. So how something that's lying can fall. So it can roll, and that's why we're all rolling around in this unfortunate country in the mud. And that's why you don't know what the parliamentary majority is, what they want, what the goal is, and it's clear what the opposition wants, and I don't think it should piss anyone off. But here, I'll speak for what reason. So by respecting what the Council of Ministers has achieved, given what I think should have been achieved, and it has not been achieved, to say what is the reason, what is my reason for signing this initiative and I will care to sign it and I think it is the error of the parliamentary majority, so you can tell yourself what the badness has to do with most of it and change it. But if you're smudged in the self-satisfaction that this is ideal, then please ask the citizens, ask them every day, how do they live? Do they live better? Do they feel short? If they feel it, it's my story. Don't worry about this story at all. But the Council of Ministers, who with its activities and negotiations with the IMF, brings us to adopt the budget in May, rather than in December last year, speaks enough about its activities. I understand the difficulties but it doesn't amnest anyone from what they say about the Rules of Procedure. The Council of Ministers, which proposes a budget in agreement with the international community in which only the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons has a shortage of funds in this unfortunate state, and we are full of people who need to return and rebuild their homes and talk about self-sustaining BiH. The Council of Ministers for whose failures.....has been delayed and appointed, for example, by leading people of the Intelligence Service, and we know what the situation in BiH is, regarding the internal security of citizens and what concerns our environment. The Council of Ministers whose decisions do not apply when it comes to the single oil and oil products market, and that's funny to someone, which is to say that the budget is a billion marks and that another billion is out of the budget, I'm telling you that 100 criminals are controlling that billion. Am I supposed to be chasing it? I'm doing it. In the RS alone, then, two times in the Federation, you are the dream of the Council of Ministers, therefore, the Council of Ministers which demonstrates full inertity in the fight against crime, corruption, violence, and that I do not speak big words, etc. inertness in addressing economic and social problems. And I have to tell you that the Council of Ministers has given us the same budget or similar budget as we had last year, and now you're going to get a soft report, so you're going to see that this is the budget that allowed Paravac to be the most expensive trained politician in Europe. So, the budget buys a suit of 2.5 thousand marks in Doboj, and you can buy an entire store in Doboj for 2.5 thousand marks. The Council of Ministers who allowed the Presidency to patent that the car used one of these before noon, so the Americans were grateful to have such people and thinkers, using the oil from Lukavica, and the afternoon great from Doboj. So the Council of Ministers who allow such spending in the budget, let's say Hadžipašić buy Tihic Mercedes an A8 of 180,000 marks, without budget procedures. Where's that? And it's not enough that he doesn't ask for a shift. So the Council of Ministers who allow spending that when Mr Tihić goes to Malaysia, he buys 18,000 stamps without a tender. So the Council of Ministers that you allow, we're here having political debates about the suit of Yugoslavia, BiH against Yugoslavia and Montenegro, and it's going to be running between the offices and these agents in The Hague, so people are buying luxury cars to members of the presidency like these cars are going to be chasing war crimes suspects. How do they need a passport or some good cars in these rubbers, they chase and bring you in, because I voted against that budget, but I want my fellow MPs to ask you, when that report comes to you what are you going to do? You hoći to say again as members of the same parliamentary majority, so what is it for BiH million, two. As this fellow Zorić used to say, delete that million, so if you'll be more pleased. 112 That's what Nikola Špirić wants to talk about. I'm sorry this is the Council of Ministers in this situation. I know what their pain is. But ladies and gentlemen, we need to look ourselves in the eye. This is about responsibility, not whether anyone has the will to achieve a result. I think they have the will to put this all in gold, but it's not like that. So you can imagine what kind of power it is if it is harder for citizens every day, and you in the parliamentary majority do not show a shred of willingness to change what you think is wrong, not, say, Mr. Terzić. So if we asked him, would Adnane be bogat or the chairman of the Council of Ministers please you with all ministers or ministries? And that we're looking for a really collegiate answer. I'd tell you a man, I'm with something, I'm not with something. And why don't we make it possible for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So you from the parliamentary majority, no matter who the Srbin is, who the Hrvat is, who the Bošnjak, to create a structure that will push this into what they're talking about. So that's the way we have to talk. Well, of course the opposition will keep trying to talk about power, which is why it's the opposition, but what we want is to wake you out of that complacency, that it's good for the citizens to be up there. And I have to tell you when these things happened, I want to say how the government works. When did these happen I call incidents in RS. First thing I called, I called the department ministers, and I asked people if you had any information, then I presided. They call people, they want emergency sessions. Ministers tell me we have no idea. It's because people have no idea they need to change the situation. And what ordinary people, ordinary mortals should... So in that sense only naive could believe today I said it before this session, that you would make most of it a shift. But I think this is educational for all of us and for us from the opposition and for you but also for the Council of Ministers who become the subject of this may often be debated. And there will still be such a debate. I don't think it bothers anyone in particular. But what I pointed to, if it turns out not true, I am met publicly from this pay phone to apologize. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it's true. Unfortunately, it is true, and it does not deserve support, at least I think of parliamentarians, no matter what political options they are from. Now we can share SDA, HDZ, SDS I don't know SNSD, SDP won't say hello to the citizens. And it doesn't matter who wins the unhappy state where people are on the verge of misery and hunger. And the more miserable and hungry they are, we compete and say, we have a parliamentary majority, we defy. It's not good for the Council of Ministers either. I am in favour of allowing the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, to reconstruct in the way it suits him, to achieve the objectives. Can Terzić do that? Why can't he? Because you don't give him that chance, so we really know in this country who's incapable of being able to. Will anyone answer for incompetence? Because these are really the most capable. If they are the most capable, I am in favour of organising elections for MPs to keep people a hundred years, not to tie them to the election process at all. And I won't mind, believe me. Thank you very much. And I think in that sense that this is good today, first of all, to see the chairman, he was outside when I was talking. The opposition at least has the strength to bring in the chairman, to be seen by the parliamentary majority, although it would be good for colleagues from the Council of Ministers to support you here because it is not collegiate, each time to appear only as chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12457	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12458	I mean, the second part of Mr. Špirić's discussion would be signed. So, in the part where we talk about really sincere desires and seriousness, which is the part that tells us about the seriousness of the initiative, that I got the impression that someone signed that initiative for serious reasons. And that 113 would be part of a serious motive, so I think there's no reason but motive and I would sign that part. It's not an accident for this people to have such a power, it's an accident for them to have such an opposition so they don't see an alternative in it. Because if she did, there wouldn't be this power, she'd be somebody else.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12459	This is how it gets to me sometimes from a respected fellow Špirić that I hear from him, you from the parliamentary majority, and I witness that he was elected by the parliamentary majority and not only the Council of Ministers in BiH. It is also the College, it is the BiH presidency. So, I think Špirić is part of the power in the legislative section, because he was elected by the parliamentary majority and I congratulated him on that. So, in that part, I replicate, that he shouldn't keep telling us, you from the parliamentary majority. So let me hear it for once, from the parliamentary majority to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12460	It's no problem, I respect it especially when my colleague Zorić speaks, otherwise we'll get along better. Nikola Špirić is part of the majority. I'm an opposition to stupidity in this country, but you don't, so there are structures that are party swearing and that's not the opposition either. I've made an argument now. I would really beg if you would bring it to Parliament to vote, to see if you would support Nikola. So I can't be the majority where I see it's the sunflower. Everywhere, I have supported you on all the legal projects that I think are the well-being of citizens and of this country. Did I? So don't ask me to support the crime. I can't. That's not what I'm gonna do. Here tomorrow, okay, I'm sitting there next to my colleagues and I admire the success. So that's what you have with Nikola Špirić whenever you want. So I am supporting important things, opposition to stupidity what I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12461	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Križanović, so Mrs. Ušanović, so my smallness and Mrs. Palavrić. I apologize in order, Zlatko, reported. Mr. Križanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really want us to try to focus on the topic of conversation after this long work today and on a very serious subject like this and try to do less replicating, because we are divorcing both the subject and the seriousness of the situation. I would also like to emphasise that as a signator of this initiative, I was motivated by the sincere concern of the country's economic, social situation and the behaviour and the Council of Ministers towards this problem, but by parliamentary majority on these issues. And instead of having a serious conversation today, what motivated us to set ourselves up according to this initiative, which is a statement by colleagues Novaković. A colleague, Novaković, looked into the opposition today. As my colleague Zorić, I can say today that I am sad today because there are colleagues in this House who make lists of MPs, colleagues with whom they would never vote on the same thing, regardless of the quality of these things and the nature of these things, but because they are such and such. I want to stress this, we are deeply aware that the government is winning the election. But you must also be aware that as well as the responsible MPs in the opposition, we are obliged to point out failures, to seek out more responsible, better quality work and executive authorities and colleagues from the parliamentary majority. And precisely because the statement questioned parliamentary support from the authorities, we did not require 114 shifts from authorities. It's simple for things to get serious here to see if it's our Council of Ministers' support they can do. And it is not directed towards anyone personally, but we want to say on the way, which is not an opportunity today because we do not have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, to point out once again that we are dissatisfied with the Council of Ministers towards this Parliament. If you colleagues are satisfied with the relationship, I am only talking about the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament when it comes to the presence of meetings and relations with this House and parliamentary issues and initiatives and the conclusions of this House. Please, is it simple to conclude today and in the fifth month that the Council of Ministers does not have its work programme for this year. If that's okay, we're fine with it. But it's not right for us. We have to say it. Here, these were the azlogs of the initiative, but I think we're gonna lose a lot of time. We will be pleased today to attend one of the plebicitarian majority support of our Council of Ministers and I wish him successful work.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12463	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mrs. Ušanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12464	Well, I'd like to say hello to all my colleagues first and thank you. This is my first address, to thank you for your warm reception, since I've been your colleague for one month. If Mr. Špirić had spoken before Mr. Gligorić, I would probably have considered whether I would have applied for the replica, not because I approve of everything Mr. Špirić said, but he seemed to think seriously when he signed that initiative and signed it out of persuasion. I, let's put this on my political inexperience here in this House, have truly realized that this is about voting, about an initiative to vote against the Council of Ministers, so now I see Mr. Terzić that you don't really need to worry. Here, this one, the breath of early October, I'm just sorry that here in these short evening hours, when we're all so tired, I'm sorry that Mr Gligorić was really underestimatingly talking about the three parties you consider a parliamentary majority. I really don't approve of it, nor do I ever have the habit of underestimating anyone, and I think that yet your biggest party opponent is SDS is not so much for underestimating, because Mr. Novaković, with his statement, has really led you to the wrong lead, if I may say so, so you have signed the initiative with a trace of his statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12465	I thank Mrs. Ušanović. The word has a chairman of the House. Mr. Raguž, I ask you to sit down and continue to give your replicas to the Rules of Procedure, you see, you have been reported. Mr. Gligorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12466	It's my last name, so I have the right to the line. First of all, when I spoke about national parties, and I saw your discussion as well as well-intentioned, I know there are good people in all parties, and that's not the problem. When I criticise it, I criticise a wrong concept and a missed policy and you have to understand it and you have to admit it to yourself and to your own conscience, you will never publicly, quite understandablely. 115 At the same time, I think when you tried to say that Mr. Novaković, you didn't say wisely but as a good answer to me, in fact, what did you say? Well, Mr. Novaković, as a serious man, as head of the parliamentary club, said something and today he stepped on it. In the politics of people who don't keep their word, and publicly they say, these people fail. You see how you know, and if you know. Like, so, eh, he's a psychic like those doorman who helped SDS, eh, so
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12467	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12468	I didn't really want people to get me wrong, but I was talking about the wrong policy and concept, and if you think my date has the wrong policy, you say I'm not angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12469	We understand each other, thank you, Mr. Gligorić. May I have your attention, please? Mr. Avdić, may I have your attention, please? He has the chairman of the dom, gospodin Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12470	I won't do it. We may surprise some of you with some points of view, but as time goes on, I can't afford to tell myself about this important subject, I don't say a word, given what was heard here, what Mr. Prime Minister's Council President said. As far as HDZ is concerned, it has been clear to us for a long time that the parliamentary majority issue is open to one serious finding. I'm not saying it was absorbed this way. Today we had an eclectic example of the Law on Higher Education. We had it inside the Council, we had some more cases. So, but not just because of that. Even today, the opposition has not even raised the issue of the Council's concept and strategy, but it has all turned into the banked relations of the parliamentary majority and of... If such a debate had been opened by the promoter, it would have probably already been effective in having a serious debate as I think the Council of Ministers has an interest in having a serious debate on whether those instruments are to implement the strategy and policy and programme objectives that this Parliament has verified at the mandate that.... Mr Terzić. And Mr. Terzić, as far as I've heard in his explanation today, has not presented any of the restrictions on his work here. And I know there are. So a serious debate on the position of the Council of Ministers would come from what circumstances, with which instruments and in what context the Council of Ministers acts. I'm in that sense really, I'm not going to say disappointed, that's a hard word, but objectively I don't think at this point we have a level of responsibility for that lack of instruments, an initiative that should be. That's what I'm obliged to say. That doesn't mean any intention to shorten trust. It's something that we should all do to give one opportunity to the Council of Ministers and to subvert and per horizontally have instruments for its function. I know that you do not have it, Mr. Terzić, not with your guilt and responsibility, but simply with such a functional arrangement of BiH we are in such a situation. On the other hand, we don't have an analysis yet, so I'm going to remind you of what we did at the Plenary Session of the House in the fourth month of last year. That every three months we will consider structural reforms that are necessary in BiH, so that it achieves European objectives. We don't have that, gentlemen. For what? Maybe it's our responsibility, too. I don't transfer here to the Council of Ministers. Without that approach, we're going to have a hard time taking politics seriously. 116 In addition to the question of what is the parliamentary majority, and whether it can function this way, I think this issue will be brought together. And not only should the BiH Party exclusively say to itself that it will only support the laws that she thinks or as we have heard Mr. Novaković, it can all parties from the parliamentary majority today definitely, because it is no one's exclusive right, but the right of each and every one of us and gentlemen and we will act that way. But we heard that on many occasions and that's fair. I'm not questioning it, I'm just saying. As for another important issue that has not been touched in any way, it is the position of the BiH government of the vjeće of Ministers towards the international community. The balance of relations, the way the government is supposed to manage this country, takes the responsibility and steps this Parliament needs to take to get that position. I still don't see it as a concept of strategy. Maybe he's got it somewhere. Maybe that's what someone thinks it's enough to do. I speak for myself now, I can't say it on behalf of the club, nor is it transparent enough, nor is it sufficiently this one, strategically designed. Here are a few questions, so when we agree to open this way of discussing both the capacities and the instruments that the Council of Ministers has and the strategy and the plan, I will try to personally and the club to make a contribution and by then, I think it is really politicizing a situation in which we are not willing to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12471	I thank the Chairman of the House. Now it's Mrs. Palavrić's turn, as far as I'm concerned, I'm reporting for the word after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12472	Thank you very much. So I will go back to what some of the signatories of this initiative said, which is that they were disappointed by counterpart Novaković. They really didn't listen to a colleague of Novaković when he spoke. They listened to the first part and rushed faster to create an initiative, and they didn't hear the rest. And the rest was that the SDS would reconsider its relationship with the Council of Ministers, that it would support the Council of Ministers projects that are in line with the BiH Constitution and that guard RS. That's what Mr. Novaković said if I was a good paraphrasist. However, some have been eager to think of this opportunity, the parliamentary majority is falling apart, and here is the opportunity to vote against Mr Terzić and the entire Council of Ministers. I am the first not satisfied with my effect in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And I believe that anyone who talks to himself, from MPs and members of the Council of Ministers, or perhaps primarily members of the Council of Ministers, is not satisfied with the level of reforms achieved, either in BiH. He's not happy, but let's compare that to the condition of a year ago, from two years ago, from a few months ago. The things we did together with this Council of Ministers were unimaginable at the time that Mr. Križanović was a member of the presidency. Let's take the terms of the Partnership for Peace. Unimaginable, the alliance was in power. According to the opposition today, they could have done a miracle. That's when we jumped in and voted reform laws. I was in the Federal Parliament at the time, and I had no idea that in the way the opposition points to failures today, that way I react, together with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we voted for every law that BiH has led to Europe, because there were no votes missing from the Alliance. And the way the opposition points to failures today is that every time we spend a few hours on the agenda, what resolutions, so when we're exhausted, then we approach law decisions. 117 Here today the Council of Ministers has been objected to for the Bureau's proceedings. The Council of Ministers cannot be responsible for the proceedings of the Bureau. He's been objected to by entity governments. There is no Council of Ministers of Indemnity over entity governments. He's been objected to for the amount of the budget. And who could offer this gentleman a budget bigger than what the IMF said? Any time, that's what happened with this. It has been said to care for terrorism. First of all, it is not true, and secondly, to continue the fight against terrorism by violating human rights, where the House of Human Rights has established crackdowns and ordered this government to pay off 36,000 marks only in one case with interest, and to allow legal aid to Cuba, for gvadanati, however, is a little too much in this way to fight terrorism. And yet BiH then acquired an image that cannot be freed from today, not deserved. Mr. Lagumdžija, today has tried to come up with reasons, so today's daily press, demands, actually an initiative to vote for mistrust has been filed how long ago? 30 days and a few days. Therefore, it was necessary to talk about what was supposed to be the alleged reason for a vote of no confidence. I say again to Mr. Lagumdžija and all the signatories of the initiative that the times have passed when it came to power without the support of the citizens' votes. Ljilja read well how many votes she had won in the election. It is also evident that there are no early choices. So let's not waste any time with initiatives like this. Let's take the results, let's take the number of laws passed since December 3, 2002 and what content of the laws. How many entity responsibilities have been transferred to the state in the interest of all BiH citizens. So let's take these results and see how slow the reforms are or how fast. There are certain of us who wish they were more complete, that they were more efficient, but I say again, and I'm sure no matter what you say, here we wanted to challenge you, to see you on the surface. You see what you want on the surface, but to one who is not clear today, that in BiH there can be peace and prosperity and improvement for all citizens in BiH only by agreement, by all three constituent nations and all others, it is indeed in deep error. In deep error. The OHR will no longer solve the problems of BiH citizens. That's what we have to do. And I'm not ashamed to do it in this establishment. I'm glad to do, with whoever wants to improve all BiH citizens. The way we can, we can. Therefore, it would really be high time for the opposition to really start pointing to failures rather than politicize, not to take away valuable time by unnecessary debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12473	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Lagumdžija, get ready. Wrong quote, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12474	First of all, the MPs shouldn't be nervous, we work normally as if we've started. I know, I've got five hours, I've got to take the car and drive for five hours, and you're in Sarajevo. If I may, then you appreciate someone's time. Now, whether it's an empty walk, Mr. Avdić, or not, it's the wrong quote in the next one. I agree with what Mrs. Seada said peace, prosperity, whoever wants to continue to the citizens, the peoples of BiH, etc. Great. But I'm telling you about the concept, the missed policy in the last 13 years, who was the one who brought us here to the international community, the guardians, etc. Who is this guilty man who brought these people into a sovereign land? And that's why I'm trying to tell you, you're a snowball effect. You start off the mountain small and later in trouble, Mr. Terzić, and for the Council of Ministers you can refer to this picturesquely, make a problem for BiH. So you've made a problem 118.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12475	Please, Mr. Gligorić, the correction to the wrong quote was, so please be more correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12476	..political in BiH after I brought everything down in that BiH. That's what I was going to say. If you understand me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12477	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12478	To remind those who forgot our initiative. In the initiative, we made it very clear what was the reason for launching this initiative. In the initiative, we said the cause was Mr. Novaković's statement. But we have said that the reason why we are driving this is because we are concerned about the economic and social situation in the country, about general imperceptibility as well as about the need to speed up reforms, the timely fulfilment of the conditions leading us to the Treaty on Stabilisation and Association of the EU. That was the reason and these reasons, I expected that in the answer that we get in writing, that we would be elaborated on the arguments that these reasons do not stand. I didn't think it necessary, that we should be here today giving information about the economic and social situation in the country, because I thought they were well known enough. I didn't think there was any need to explain us, further general inspectibility in the situation that the Council of Ministers is responding to in this way. Was it necessary to talk about the question of the citizens of this country, whether you feel better today than in October 2002, one out of ten people said he was feeling better today? Normally, a smart man wonders which one is one of those ten. I didn't think I needed to talk, that UNDP research and other relevant institutions were saying that if you think you'll be better in a year, only one in five people believe he'll get better. So it's not this country's problem that we're so sick of. The problem is this imperceptibility that opens up here. I felt there was no need for me to talk about it in the introduction, because I thought we'd get a relevant answer, to tell us that, we'd meet the conditions that were set before us. Instead, we got the president's answers that he had nothing to do with this, I'm not from here, I don't know where you got it. It's not his budget, it's the Presidency of the State's budget, terrorism isn't mine. We've heard it's here now, so I want to subdue BiH was never a terrorist country. Another thing is that some have used their pre-propaganda campaign to accuse the country's authorities of making this country a terrorist country. It has never been in any relevant place called that. Just thanks to what was done and to the mistakes that were made. But the fact that there is now an assessment, that the arrival of national parties, activity in the fight against terrorism, has slowed down. It's like a grade, and we can't get away from it. It's not a matter of propaganda. It's a hard fact we can't escape from. We can hear that here today, you can hear today while we had a snail, on the council that the president of the presidency now says he has nothing to do with the generals, with the appointment of the generals there's nothing, there's nothing man, like there's nothing our prime minister has to do with the budget. Now we've heard there's no obligation to have no deadlines, but this Council of Ministers has given themselves deadlines. Here, did I make it up? The papers have held an interview with the prime minister who said, I will resign unless I meet these conditions by six months and we open the process of negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Treaty. So the man said that, too, Martin, you're right when you say 119 that we are expected to have a discussion every three months about the structural reforms that are being made. But here, we've got three, here we've missed these three months. Here, in a month and a half, we'll get a debate here, I guess, in which the chairman of the Council of Ministers will, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, run an analysis of what was done for the first six months if he hasn't already done it in the first three months and will then get from us a card to join the Partnership for Peace, which we have opened negotiations on the Stabilisation and Association Treaty and normally needs the Council of Ministers to get the support of this Parliament and to say thank you people for doing a big job. And then we'll explain something, too, that we're doing something a little bit, but it's clear. It's the Council of Ministers if he does, it's his fault. Normally, we'll have a chance to talk about it in two months. I am, unlike the gentlemen who here say they belong to the folk parties, by the way none of you are in the membership of national and international associations. I am a representative of the party that is in the member of the European and global social Democrats. We are to inform Parliament and Mr. Raguž as chairman of the committee responsible, we had no intention of saying it, but we are doing everything on our part to make sure that people we know, and we know people from non-national parties on the party line, to activate, to allow us, if we are able to join the Partnership for Peace to open contracts, negotiations of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. Why? Well, because I think that when we're given a discount and we go inside, it'll be better for whoever's in power and who's in opposition if he's a normal man. And I have no intention of being lucky here if in two months we say we didn't make it, because watch out what it is, what, I think if we act like we've never done it, there's nothing about it, I don't know anything about it, it doesn't matter to me, it's the Presidency, it's you. We're being told here that this isn't any shift vote. Please, Article 116 says very clearly, the vote on the non-trust of the Council of Ministers then in...... talks on a vote of mistrust, so when a no-confidence vote is passed, then it is given, watch out for the people it is a termology and democratic countries. You know what it means to vote mistrust in one parliament. I mean, it's nowhere defined any different than thank you goodbye, live, I'm gone. I mean, look, you can tell me what we're like right now, and we're saying we don't trust each other, so since the ruling coalition has happened, it doesn't seem to have any of that. No problem. And even if they voted, what difference does it make? Well, that doesn't say it's a shift. Well, I mean, this doesn't lead to anything, and that's why I want it very clearly here, not repeating and not citing the explanation of economic and other nature, we'll have a chance in two months, hopefully, to see where we are. But in the end, I'm glad I got this book today, too. And she's a co-worker, so we need to imagine these numbers and be serious about it. But don't be incorrect. Behind the signature of the people here, that's one-third of the MPs of this House. Behind these signatures stands here, take that book and check, it's 400 thousand votes. Behind one who is not disputed to be together, which is the SDA, HDZ and the SDS, behind you is 550,000 votes. In that book when you add it up. There's one 160,000 between and so, watch out for me had a responsibility in front of 400,000 people behind us, and get it together and you'll see out of a million and twenty-two thousand people who voted, you have over 550,000. It's a respectable figure we respect. Don't tell me there's some singing company behind it. There are 400,000 votes behind us, these are the ones we signed here. You can do it with your foot and say what I care, because you have a majority. But there's no problem, and it's a matter of the elemental democratic culture that seems to be missing to Bog we have to make. So be it, what I can do now. And finally, what I was glad to hear in all this was that Mr. Novaković told us that we didn't hear him well. If Mrs Palavrić had told us that we didn't hear Mr. Novaković well, thank Bog we all heard him now. He said he was going to review the support, and 120 of the office questioned everything, so you're going to vote nicely, and we're going to see what the situation is like after the review. What was shocking to me, I guess, is what I've been doing for a long time. This gym works a little bit. The statement will remain registered, Mr. Novaković, yours. We don't work together, but we work together against you, and when I heard it, I went over there to check it out, maybe I didn't hear it right. We don't work together, but we work together against you. It was not clear to me who we were, then you said against you, the opposition who signed this. No problem. I mean, it would be funny if it wasn't tragic. Well, no, but tragically, it's tragic that we have really tragic and that's what's most tragic, Mr. Novaković. It's tragic that what brings you together is that you are against us. That's not normal. And when you realize that's not normal, then we'll be able to talk normally. I invite you to be together in what you promised the High Representative told him an honorable word we will be...informators, take over our program, work and justice, and we are now dissatisfied that you are slowly implementing our program. We're just not happy about it. And that's why we're asking you to either speed up or start doing something, which isn't just against us. And, Mr. Raguž, I thank the Prime Minister for taking the cream that I'm about to end up with, I totally agree with him. It would appear that the shaking of the mountain was born again to the mouse. We'll get this same Council of Ministers again, but well, it's good to shake up again to see that the mouse is there again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12479	Thank you very much. Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, has the word. After him, Mr. Džaferović then Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12480	So I must say that after these discussions we had, especially after this last debate by Mr Lagumdžija, I understand why this group of MPs asked for a vote on, submitted an initiative to vote on the confidence of the Council of Ministers. I'm sure the Council of Ministers doesn't arrange this for them. And besides these, all the numbers Mr. Lagumdžija mentioned, we should maybe take a little bit of a stenogram and take a look. Surely, then, we will make sure that this Council of Ministers cannot have the support of Mr Lagumdžija and these 14 MPs, since Mr Lagumdžija leads these MPs to vote against the law proposed by this Council of Ministers, the reform laws which read, proposed by the Council of Ministers, against defence reform, against the reform that meant the introduction of VAT and the Directorate for Direct Taxation in BiH, the merger of customs administrations, the reform of intelligence services, etc. So these are all laws against which Mr. Lagumdžija voted and it is certain and certain that it can be examined in stenograms. And Mr. Lagumdžija, do you think only you in this room can talk nonsense? What you were talking about earlier was a total story of nonsense and even a distortion of what I was saying and it's not true, Mr. Lagumdžija, that I didn't take responsibility. For the thousandth time I tell you, whatever you think about it, this package of measures will implement this Council of Ministers. It's not because someone's pushing us, it's because we took ourselves to do it. And we don't need any of your thanks. And it is true, Mr. Raguž, that we have a limit, that we have limitations, but our greatest limit and our greatest restriction is that we do not have time, because thanks to the former Council of Ministers' compositions, where there was a mass of MPs sitting here, including you, we have lost that time and now we are running who are going crazy to get the rest of the countries in the region and to fill in what the European Commission expects of us. In such an atmosphere, I don't have time to talk about limitations, I don't have time to talk about whether a minister is doing a little better or a little bit worse, but I'm pushing the processes forward to get us back in a position to step back on something that no Council of Ministers has ever done before. So we've taken a huge step of physibilities, a positive physibility study, and we're going to take a huge 121 step and start negotiations to sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. And I must admit that in the end, when I add it all together, and it probably isn't the end yet, I expect that here are the majority of the MPs in this room to give support to this Council of Ministers, not to mention all these rhetoric that the opposition is shooting at in these late hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12481	Mr. Raguž, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12482	Here's the short part, since Mr. Terzić mentioned it. You know, Mr. Terzić, we're gonna have to learn to talk with arguments. Those when they're heavy for me, they're relevant to me. You have no argument that the Council of Ministers, whom I led for a short time, four months, was a black hole. He's going to. I will bring you arguments from the most relevant international institutions and assessments, that I launched the Council of Ministers after a six-month blockade, formed three ministries within four months and fully introduced a new spirit into BiH's relations in general. And if you had some correctness, you would say that as I commended you for the things that are of quality and tried to tell you now where your limitations are, not your own, but the limitations in the work of the institution. And that was my intention, and it's not my intention to pollemize, it's my intention to talk to the argument. Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12483	But, Mr. Chairman, to open the story, whether this parliamentary majority is stable or not, is exactly the collapse of the process leading us to Europe. To open that story, in conditions where there is so much more to be done before the Council of Ministers and we expect that support from you, to open that story, I think it is extremely unproductive especially with this opposition, and I expect that after this story, we will again have a request for a vote of no confidence because you gave them an excellent creamworth.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12484	The need for controversy ceases. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12485	Respect for my colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to say it, but things are going too seriously, please. What's the problem? So things
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12486	Please, Mr. Džaferović listened patiently and waited
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12487	So things are going too seriously for a man to keep his mouth shut about what's been said today on this agenda point. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Lagumdžija for finally staying in Parliament after 16 months. Unlike him, me and most of our colleagues sat here all day long. We did not use this pay phone to give a lecture at the beginning of the session and then leave the session and leave it to discuss important laws without us and reforms in this House. 122 Mr. Lagumdžija, you were not at the session at the moment when the Law of Defence was voted, or when the report was accepted. I'm telling you because I'm following. And the other thing, when it comes to the law, you weren't therefore entering the session after the Commission's report on the Defense Act was passed. Check the documents and other things, you voted for the Law on indirect taxation, which practically meant his non-acceptance, i.e. The introduction of the fifth regional administration completely unnecessary, which is why we later had problems one month late at least with the adoption of the Law on indirect taxation. But it doesn't matter. I went out here for a pay phone to tell you some facts. I understand the need for Parliament to discuss once a year the report on the work of the government elected by the Council of Ministers. I don't understand that in one year, and of course if we want to help this Council of Ministers, we can discuss the work of the Council of Ministers and give them suggestions to improve the work of the Council of Ministers. I do not understand the need, in a year or eight months, to reach twice in this House for the provision of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. the application for a vote of no confidence, i.e. to initiate an initiative to vote for a non-confidential vote by the Council of Ministers. I'm not saying that this is not a legal and legitimate initiative, but I want to tell those who are driving those initiatives that they are considering, therefore, what initiatives are, first of all, government in BiH and then what it declares. I'll take a few facts. I've been listening to a lecture here in Parliament, Mr Lagumdžija about what we should and should do, what's wrong and what's wrong, but I'd like to remind Mr Lagumdžija that from 2000 to 2002 he was in a period of time because then there was a rotation in the Council of Ministers chairing the Council of Ministers and that he had a stand to talk a lot about what he was talking about here today, if he thought it was possible to do it then, do it. And he didn't. In this meeting, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed 60 laws between 2000 and 2002. The laws were mostly written by OHR. They were formally passing through the Council of Ministers and some were adopted in Parliament and some were not adopted. 60 of them were adopted in a letter and number according to the list of official documents between 2000 and 2002. Of the significant laws that have been adopted, I'm trying to remember, and I remember it's election law and I remember it's five laws from the CIPS project. There may be others, but that's what I can think of right now. In just a year from 93 to 1993 or 16 months from now, over 70, 2003, pardons were adopted in this House, so over 70. At a press conference held by my colleagues while taking over Mr. Raguž by Špirić, the data was 70, today it is more. But I want to talk and be sure of what I say. So in a year, more laws have been passed in this House than Parliament has done in the last term of 2000 to 2002, so in two years. The laws were proposed mostly by 95%, this is the Council of Ministers. The laws were written by a commission, which was mainly written by reform laws by a commission formed by the High Representative, in which they participated. So this is a step forward in relation to the practice that existed in the previous Council of Ministers and domestic experts delegated by the Council of Ministers and the draft laws were established at meetings of the Council of Ministers and regularly passed here in Parliament. And then laws were passed for the past year. So I just want to remind myself of which you couldn't even think about between 2000 and 2002. Laws in the area of the rule of law, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office, criminal laws, the SIPI Act, the Law on Defence, the Law on indirect taxation, were launched on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. These are the facts I want to say for the Bosnian Herzegovina public. Of course, I have no intention of saying everything the Council of Ministers has done. 123 Mr. Lagumdžija, when in your discussion they sow a dreary picture of the situation in BiH then it would be correct to say that the image was at least present or was worse present when you were at the head of this country and when you were its practical boss. I'll tell you the data. The only statistical indicator that comes in favor of the government that you represent is greater foreign direct investment in BiH, I say it in a very simple way but I will tell you why, in 2002 than it was in 2003. This is because the privatisation of the banking sector was carried out in that year, and therefore those investments were enormously higher in 2002 than they were in 2001 or 2003, even though the index was also on the rise in 2001. I would like to remind you that in 2000, in the Federation of BiH, 410.808 about the Federation I am speaking now, of course I am talking about the state, I have no data for this other entity, in 2001 407 thousand 199, in 2002 394 thousand 132, in January 2003 386 thousand 397 workers, and in January 2004, 387 thousand 099. Why don't you say that in 2003, if you want to be correct and fair, the drop in the number of employees that has been registered since 2000, 2001, 2002 and that there has been an increase in the number of employees in the Federation of BiH in January 2004 compared to January 2003 from 386 thousand 397 to 387 thousand 099. Why don't you say that in BiH, export coverage is 10% higher in almost 10% in 2003 compared to 2002. You're talking about these things. Look, it's easy for this country in a situation like this to be objectively difficult, telling the story you're telling. It's easy to sow a sense of inexperience and a sense of imperceptibility. Give us something to fix the situation and tell us the truth. Don't let us here in Parliament talk about our country in a way that tomorrow and whoever thought they'd come to this country won't come to this country. It's supposed to be a task for us here. And give me every piece of information. Now I've been honest with the statistics, so I've got statistics on me. That's what we need to talk about. This is where you used to go out for pay phones talking about the VC corridor. The VC corridor has a problem, so we all see it. But the VC corridor wasn't talked about at all during your government. Corridor VC gained the right of citizenship and became an undisputed project in 2003. is no longer a question of whether to build a VC corridor in BiH, the question is when it will start to build and who will build it. Behind the government in 2000, I ask you nicely, behind the government that was until 2000, you were left with a project highway to Podlugov, you were left with money, you did not make a complete journey, but a second tape of course of the same pairs had to be done during the period 2003. And the government that came after you didn't find a mile of the highway projected beyond what was projected. No idea project or anything else. And you're here saying that you're the only ones who've built cars, that others haven't done anything. I beg you, therefore, we speak objectively here. Of course, there are things I'm not happy with when it comes to the Council of Ministers, I'll also say it honestly. I'm not happy with, say, the MP's watch and the attitude to that MP's watch. I will suggest that when the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament is done, we introduce the Norwegian system into Parliament. Let the MP on one side ask according to schedule and let the minister answer. I'll suggest it. Whether it will pass, I don't know, but I think it's a promotion to practice so far. Therefore, this is not the reason why I would vote today on the Council of Ministers' mistrust to vote today for this Council of Ministers to go. This Council of Ministers needs help, it needs a chance, this Council of Ministers needs the support of this Parliament and, of course, needs support for both the opposition and the positions. When the country is in a difficult state, when reform laws are passed, then in normal countries and BiH should be a normal country, it should not be seen who is the position and who is the opposition. I voted for the Electoral Law because it was reform 124 laws. You were in power back then. I voted in favour of the law, and I made my full contribution when it comes to the law. that I am not talking now about some other things that we have done for the benefit of the BiH state's interest and of course act exactly the opposite of the way you behave. That's it, thank you. I had to tell you these facts, this data. This is statistics, so let the public know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12488	A false allegation, Mr Ivo Miro Jović, is the replica of Mr Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12489	Very short. I learned a lot tonight because we talked about everything but the agenda point. From what I have learned, I can see the words in this House, unfortunately, there are no parties in power and opposition. We're not gonna be able to figure that out today, at least. And my guilty quote was not shaking the hills; neither was the mouse born, but the mouse's round of water. We need to read the obituary today and see what's missing from the story. No cats, no cats. And for that reason, for that reason, I want to say that's why it's a guilty allegation. If we're going to do this job, this is how we're going to do it, and we've declared that we're in a permanent session, and we're having our permanent session two days a month, breaking constitutions and laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12490	Mr Ivo Miro Jović, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I still have Mr. Moranjkić. The replica of Mr. Lagumdžija. You're the one for the hearing. No more reports. Mrs. Leho, no. Can we close the debate? I think we really gave everyone a chance to tell. Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Moranjkić, and if Mr. Chairman is here, if he wants anything more to say and I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12491	Yeah, my replica is about Mr. Džaferović's cheeks, I guess, so some others wouldn't replicate, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12492	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12493	I think it would be correct for Mr. Džaferović, and you have insight into it, to look at the various statistics that when he was at these sessions of Parliament, who was when he was as active as he was, so you'll all be told if you want to take care of it. I was not at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly when a report on the work of the Council of Ministers was adopted one year, which you said would be good for him to submit. I wasn't at that session. And probably if someone else was at that session. It seems that's the problem, which is that 125 people were not in the session at which the Council of Ministers gave its Annual Report. It wasn't a subject or we could talk about it. On the other hand, I want to tell you that for the eight months I've been the chairman of the Council of Ministers and you've heard that a few times from me and it's obviously going through your ears, no law has been imposed by the Council of Ministers by the High Representative in which I sat as chairman. And I suggest you refer to the European Commission's report on the basis of which we have made those 16 areas very clear, on page five, the last paragraph on the Bosnian version, from above when you go last to the bottom, and then you move on to a new page and there says the assembly's session at the time of the 2001 and the 2nd years passed three times more laws than in the previous two periods before that. That's what the European Commission's report says. The report also says that this Council of Ministers for the observed first period from to the report, up to five months ago, is a narrow throat that has slowed the trend that was at the time of the alliance again. I didn't write it, it was signed by Kris P.. i you could see it in that report that we pulled our conclusions from. I also want to correct you, not the laws that came here, come from this Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, some laws came directly here without this Council of Ministers. And we had a problem procedurally seeing what to do with it. I'm not talking about the laws that came as the ones that we had on the agenda today, that came without the Council of Ministers' position on it, and we saw what it looked like to discuss it. And that you claim that you invented VC corridor for this vaccine here and that we didn't, we said, that it wasn't talked about it. It was not about what it was about, and I do not want Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović to take my word for it, which was led by the order in which the VC corridor was then and when the construction of the VC corridor began. Anything on the subject would be degutant to explain. We've left you with a document called Business and Justice, which you won the election and then you took the program of the previous ruling structure and said this is our program and we'll make it happen. No problem, we left it to you. Since you said it was the only indicator of foreign direct investment. I'll refer you to three more. It's a social product, it's industrial production, and the number of employees would suggest that you take Mr. Terzić's exposure when he presented us here with a medium-term development strategy, in which you can see that those data you're talking about are simply not like that. Otherwise, actually, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12494	It's a replica now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12495	Mr. Džaferović, you obviously have AIDS to follow people, not indicators, of what is happening in the economic and social sphere, and you have followed that wrongly when it comes to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12496	Can I replicate 126?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12497	Please last, Mr. Lagumdžija said this refers to Mr. Džaferović's debate. Here's Mr. Džaferović, a replica if it applies to Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Moranjkić and if the final word wants the President of the Council to conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12498	So, to this last sentence by Mr Lagumdžija, which is one of the most common insolences, of course, I have no intention of answering, except to say that I am proud of every minute and every second of my career, including those three months I spent at the Agency for Information and Protection of the Republic of BiH as a secretary. And of course, I'm proud of every minute of my career, Mr. Lagumdžija, and it's not in my blood to follow people. On the contrary, I've never done it, and I'll never do it. I don't need to. I came out here to tell you, you're simply making a statement. When I talked about the need for a debate about the Council of Ministers' report in a year, I didn't say there was a session you weren't at. You made a mockery of it, didn't you? And you applied one like that, you chose an irony tactics according to that part of my discussion, and you said as if I said something I didn't say at all. During the Alliance's government, the High Representative imposed 20 laws. These are also the data published in the documents of this Parliament. He's the High Representative for the past 16 months, and I'm telling you, take the documents, read it, you got it as an MP for the parliamentary assembly from 2000 to 2002, imposed so for these 16 months he imposed 5 or 6 laws. I know, therefore, that these are a set of criminal laws and the original Law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which is 5 or 6 laws in 16 months. I didn't say at all that you have not passed more laws between 2000 and 2002 than was passed from 98 to 2000, and I claim that you have passed more laws and, of course, I say so. But I'm saying it's a number of 60 and I'm saying that in a year or so it's 15 to 16 months of this call, it's as much as you've brought in 2 years more by 20 or 30% more. I didn't say that all the laws that came into parliamentary procedure came from the Council of Ministers, I said that it was 95% of the law at least, if you remember what I said. And I'm staying with that, of course, and I know what law you're targeting when you say that not all laws have been passed, and I honestly said that in my discussion. I did not say that there were no talks on the VC corridor and that no activities were done but you must admit that the VC corridor in this meeting has been given the right of citizenship in the BiH state based on valid decisions by the State Presidency and the Council of Ministers. In terms of industrial production, if you don't believe in me, take statistics. I've given you some of that information and brought it to you. BiH's industrial production in 2003 is higher than it was in 2002. The number of employees, the decline in the number of employees, Mr Lagumdžija, has been halted since January 2003 in a slightly larger number of employees. This is just for the truth. I call you once again, not for the sake of Šefik Džaferović but for the sake of all of us and for the sake of BiH, I understand your need for opposition but this opposition fight should also have its own dignity and should have a certain level. I therefore suggest that you lead her in such a way that she is in the interest of the BiH state. When you talk about BiH, you only tell the truth. So don't make up anything and don't represent this country in that light, because we know that it's an extremely difficult situation in which it isn't. That's it, thank you. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12499	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, we're finishing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12500	Mr. Chairman, I've been thinking for a long time whether to take this call, but I still had to say something because I saw this point quite differently. I've seen her seriously, I've seen her more seriously. Unfortunately, it has been put into context, it has been put on a track that does not serve both this Parliament and this situation as it has been established. I have seen this situation today, this point as one, not to say a friendly but business report on the difficulties and work of our council of ministers associated with this parameter. I couldn't imagine that this point would cause so much insult, so much emotion, so much tension and so much excitement that again I don't feel appropriate to one state Parliament. I'm afraid so. Someone's always in these situations, someone's an opposition. The position is usually and always the one that must be responsible for both good and evil in the period in which it is a position. Is that how it is with us? Now, that's a little bit of a discussion, and maybe we're not all on it. The opposition is usually in the form of a monitoring of the corrective factor and a real observer and should keep an eye on and aim and respond at the right time using the legal right that it gives at the end of the Rules of Procedure. I expected here what I think part of it and Mr. Chairman Raguž said, to say what we did, what we didn't do, from those parliamentary issues through all the programs that we've done ourselves, from the programs that the international community has imposed on us to do and to do to get certain conditions that we need to get into any of the European, world integrations to the misery that is wandering the streets and waiting for a solution from us, I probably won't put it directly on the soul or the position or opposition, it's objectively out there on the street and we can be sure when we get out of this building and I wouldn't label it whose. I expected the chairman to tell us what his working atmosphere is in the Council of Ministers. As jobs go there, those who are set up as additions to the program, as far as it came and whether the opposition that said we want to check, so I say trust in the government should expect that government to tell us what we've seen, that it's not done yet, that it's done wrong, or that it's not done right, that it's supposed to work and that we should find ourselves on some background so that we can say, gentlemen have satisfied the tasks or failed to meet the tasks, we'll vote against or we won't vote. So, from all of this, what Mr. Jović said, you should learn good lessons, no matter what the result of this, I will not say voting but this whole painful situation that is here, it is, in my opinion, the last thing I agree with, I said once again with my colleague Jović. This is without needing a charge, this is a perfectly normal thing in a democratic world. I spent 7-8 days three days in the UK Parliament and listened to sessions like this and similar sessions. Guys, no one's making a sound. They ask people to repeat the matter, to check it out, to sign it up, if they need to be checked out, and to deny it or to present it with arguments. It's not like that here. For us gentlemen, you can't say we're a non-operational opposition. As a man, as a Parliamentarian, I could never accept it and swallow it. It looks bad in my mouth and for that insinuation created on that background, I don't accept it again. I resent Mr. President Terzić, which is what disappointed me when he said the opposition was a kind of enemy of this country and this society. I don't feel that way, I don't want to qualify like that because I want to use my legal opposition rights in this House, but at the same time, 128 acts constructively and help as much as I can in the position of both this country and this people who chose me. I'm not the one who didn't vote for any law, especially the law that we adjective said was reformal, etc. On the contrary, I tried to do everything I could to make it go away, and I really wouldn't accept such attributes. They insult me even as a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12501	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. We've closed the debate. We move on before we move on to Article 120 of our Rules of Procedure. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Especially the chairman of the Council of Ministers regardless of certain intonations and a certain kind of politicisation if you allow me this comment. I think that the debate was also useful for us, and I hope for Mr Terzić as well, and that as Parliament and as Council, we will find the means for better and better communication in the implementation of these strategic priorities presented to us by the Council of Ministers and he himself as chairman. Therefore, pursuant to Article 120(1) after the debate is concluded, the proposal for non-confidentiality shall be put to the vote. Please, so we are pleading on a proposal from a group of MPs to vote on mistrust, to be precise means you have that in mind. No, I don't think I'm obliged to do this, since I'm doing it for the first time, to specify this, Mr. Lagumdžija procedure and I'm now asking MPs at the House of Representatives to plead on the proposal for a vote of no confidence of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12502	...by voting for us, we reject the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12503	We vote on your proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12504	Our proposal, thank you very much, well
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12505	So people opt out whether they support your proposal or they're against it. I ask you to come forward with a proposal from a group of MPs. You're voting now. So with – 9 votes against – 23, abstention – 2. I would like to konstatirati that the proposal by the Group of Representatives to vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers is not accepted, that the Council of Ministers by the House of Representatives as the competent home for the election, confirmation and verification of responsibilities has been given confidence in their work. I thank everyone and wish for the successful work of the Council of Ministers and Chairman, Mr. Terzić. I'm closing, 12th point. Coming through, please, I think we can be really a little bit responsible right now and finish this agenda in half an hour, if we are, we can do it. We're still working on Mr. Lagumdžija since 129 of the opposition we've been getting criticism in terms of how we're doing, here I'm already practically applying your suggestions and moving on to Ad.13. The appointment of members of the BiH concession commission, which is a very important thing for BiH and the Council of Ministers so that it can work operationally. You have a proposal for candidates who have been proposed by the Council of Ministers with résumés and I am opening a debate on the 13th wheel Is there anyone here to discuss? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12506	... The party MPs' club for BiH will not support the proposed candidates even though we are a party that has been for a year and a few days... anything that is faster set up by this concession commission. We will not support the proposed candidates for the following reasons. So other than the observations on the very report from which it is difficult to see how many candidates are either and which structures, which competences etc. And on the very course of procedure, our basic remarks are next. So you have mostly proposed candidates from state structures, professional associates, cabinet heads, etc. You have candidates who, as they should come from the entity or district of Brcko and apparently live in the Federation, and off that base conditionally, so we think that the proposed candidates are not the level of need of such a significant commission, including these reasons that I just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12507	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Špirić, so Mr. Gligorić, so Mr. Novaković. It's the registration order.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12508	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow Members, honourable chairman of the Council of Ministers, I think otherwise when the appointments were made, what I was talking about earlier, I want to continue now. In order for this country to succeed, it is therefore very important that people who are willing to respond to the task in those places come to the responsible places. I have to say, I'm not convinced that the names that were proposed, all together, if they were to add up that I could write two sentences about what would be their work assignment. So they're all political people, but it's not even my idea that they're political people, but that you read a little bit of this biography, so you'll see what people are getting into when they're writing about themselves, and that's why I'm a supporter so we don't put everything in the same plane, that if we have to say individually about candidates. But here, I'll only give you one biography. For example, Mr. Amir Novalija, who says, by aggression and brutal war on BiH, his work was violently, unjustly interrupted, continued etc. I think we're choosing candidates who need to meet what they're supposed to do and let go of the grade and what happened to those in charge. So I'm very interested in whether we're going to vote today to confirm some things and tell citizens other stories entirely. I'm sorry that here from five, six candidates may see two candidates who might be able to meet this task, have suggestions, no matter what I share Mr. Beriz Belkić's opinion, I won't vote for this, but I would be pleased if we were to declare ourselves individually about the candidates. And I think it's past the time of the five, sixy-fifty, or ten people, I think that's the worst example if we want to get to the good candidates for what, pick them for the job they're expecting. We have so far because the parliamentary majority may not trust each other, have grouped everyone in this country and come to below average solutions. That's why I'm asking you to show off when it comes to people. I do not dispute that parliamentary majority representatives should give candidates, but I also have to tell you that I am not prepared to vote for people I appreciate that they are unable to meet the task that awaits us, who is actually expecting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12509	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12510	Ladies and gentlemen, here at the next point we saw how well this power worked and that it took her a year to solve this important issue of the commission, related to the concession in BiH. And today I heard a journalist say these are the chosen people to be covering the BiH mafia to do some jobs. If it had been approached honestly, that question could have been resolved long ago. Therefore, there are objectively some reasons very important that have led to the fact that we have not resolved this issue to this day. I also agree with Mr. Belkić and Dr. Špirić on the incompetence of practically these people who are proposed, again proving that it was about ordered meanings for people who will need to be obedient. So I can't support it means this commission proposal and I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12511	Thank you. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12512	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I would support Mr. Špirić's proposal to vote individually on the candidates. I don't know if it's possible now or not, I'd like to know. I think it's possible. What I really have reservations for these candidates, with these actually also agree, the need to have this commission, means a very specific need to have a commission, I have to say that out of seven commission members, the two are 43 years old and one 40th. So I'd rather say they're closer to the pensioner's advice than this serious commission. I also saw from these candidates' applications here that only one Srbin noted that he is not a member of any party and that only Srbin do not go to political parties, only Bošnjak said that he was being aggressive. I guess, considering that these are very important facts for both of us to find ourselves on this committee. This one is not a member of any political party and this one is either gone or left this one because of a brutal war. So, I join the proposal to vote individually for the members of the commission and those of course who do not get the trust, that the Council of Ministers proposes others for them, is again substituting from that region either from that entity or from the Brcko District and of course from that group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12513	I thank Mr. Novaković. Anybody else want to talk about this, if you don't have a final hearing. Please, Mr. Jović, I'll give you my word, but for a short time because here I am, and I'm trying to follow you. Here you go. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12514	I want to say very briefly, unlike my predecessors, very affirmative to two people, it is Ivo Andrić and Nikola Antunović. I am pleased that often within the Croatian people, they say that Western Herzegovians lead politics from Hrvat, which are both from Bosnia with pride.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12515	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Please, we got this as a proposal from the Council of Ministers and I treat it as a proposal in general. Now, let's not make a statement about the proposal as a whole. If you have a reservation according to the part of the proposal, you also have a reservation according to the proposal as a whole. Everything else is unserious now. And I put on the vote of the Council of Ministers' proposal for the appointment of members of the BiH concession commission, in line with what you received in the proposal. Should I read? Thank you very much. Please state on the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the appointment of members of the Commission for concessions of BiH. You're voting now. So the proposal has a simple majority. No entity. He's going to get into college. Can I talk to you right now? So we're going for a statement in the second round. We now vote first, please from the Federation to declare who is against this proposal for the appointment of members of the BiH concession commission? Vote now. So 7 is against it. So the Federation passed a proposal to appoint members of the concession commission. I'm asking the representatives of the RS to come forward who's against it? Vote now. So – 10 MPs from the RS are against it. So this proposal for the appointment of members of the BiH concessions Commission has not passed. The word is for Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12516	Mr. Chairman, I demand that this section be checked by voting entities individually, through the Secretary of the House of MPs. I have the right to ask for it. I doubt the results of the vote and ask that when an entity vote is recorded or checked via the secretary and the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12517	Please, we need to respect the Rules of Procedure as a possibility. I'm asking Mrs. Branka this, Secretary of the House to conduct the procedure. Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12518	Thank you very much. Miloš Jovanović, v., 132 Ljiljana Milićević, v., Nenad Mišić, v., Momčilo Novaković, v., Mara Perkanović, v., Nikola Kragulj, v., Nikola Špirić, v., Molorad Živković, v., Jelina Đurković, za, well, Petar Kunić, there is no Mr. Mirko Blagojević, is not there, Tihomir Gligorić, v., Elmir Jahić, za, Munib Jusufović, v. 10 – is against, for – 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12519	Okay, thank you Mrs. Todorović. I find that the Council of Ministers' proposal for the appointment of members of the BiH concession commission has not received the necessary majority. We've seen it in a way. The procedure will have to be renewed. We move to the point of the fourteenth agenda, that's Ad.14. Proposal for a resolution on the recognition of the status and rights of national minorities of former SFRY citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, we have received a proposal from Mr. Representative Sead Avdić. He's being referred to the committee responsible. The committee responsible was the Commission for Human Rights and Migration of Refugees and Asylum, which delivered a report to us on 8 April. The Commission supported the principles of the motion for a resolution, accepted the text of the resolution as proposed by the Proposer and supplemented the text of the resolution with the text contained in the report. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a resolution. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please give the House a statement on the motion for a resolution with an addition proposed in the Commission's report. Please vote now. With – 23 votes for, against – 4, abstentions – 5. Enough for the entity majority. I conclude that the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the status and rights of national minorities of former SFRY citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, the proposing representative of Sead Avdić, was adopted in the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. We're going to the fifteenth item of the agenda, that's Ad.15. Proposal for a resolution on the provisional moratorium on Article 121. Dom's Rules of Procedure, Proposer Nenad Mišić on submitted this previous resolution 24.02. Resolution referred to a preliminary examination of the committee responsible. The House has designated ustavno-pravni law as the competent authority that submitted the report to us on 20 April this year. You have seen that the Constitutional and Legal Committee did not support the motions of Resolution 133, and has found that the motion for a resolution, even if it is not temporary, to suspend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you. Please state the motion for Mr. Nenad Mišić's resolution. Please vote now. For – 13, v – 15, means With the motion for a resolution by Mr Nenad Mišić, he did not get the necessary majority. I thank the MPs. We're going to the sixteenth point, that's Ad.16. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the importance of public documents. The joint commission of both homes provided us with a report on the consent of the identical text of the Law on the importance of public documents in BiH. As you have seen, the Commission has agreed to the same text by adopting four amendments. I'd like to make a statement on the Commission's report. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, With – 28 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. With enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report, which finally passed the Law on the importance of public evaporation in BiH. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, which is Ad.17. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH You have received a Report from the Joint Commission. The Commission agreed with the same text of the law by adopting one amendment to Article 5. I'd like to make a statement on the Joint Commission's report. Vote now. With – 34 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. I agree that the House unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report, which finally passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH. I thank the MPs. We're going to the eighteenth item of the agenda, that's Ad.18. The Commission's report on the human rights of immigration, refugees and asylum, on the state of human rights in the Arizona market. The commission report you got. The Commission adopted certain conclusions and measures concerning the problems related to the Arizona market. According to Article 40(1), under g) of the Commission, for the purpose of considering a petition on human rights violations, and basic freedoms by adopting appropriate measures, it shall notify this House of adopted decisions. In accordance with this provision, the House takes this report into account and can, of course, support measures, decisions taken by the Commission. Is there a need for a debate? Anyone want to comment? All right, here you go, Mrs. Sopta. 134
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12520	It seems to me that this is a little bit much, let me say, after all this effort and after the discussions and the debates and our work, a little bit come on, not fair to be, first 18th point, to discuss it at 10:30 p.m. I would suggest to the chairman, if it's possible to put it somewhere in the next session, and to discuss it somehow, because I think it's still the subject that deserves the attention, because this is about drastic human rights violations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12521	Can we accept this proposal? I think he's constructive. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12522	I agree with Mrs. Sopta that the moment someone after 12 o'clock and getting up to signal us as she has now done, that he was coming upon a very important point, I think it would be this one, correct to listen to it. There's no need for us to train on ourselves, but I would also ask Mr. Chairman, this principle isn't applied when I intervened in a similar way I thought that some of us here did too quickly, considering exactly the same reasons as you, but that doesn't mean that now it's going to be.....what you said because I really respect everything you said and it's not correct to blame you for being against such a principle when we were looking for something like that. I agree with you completely, we will support you, but I would also like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, when we get back to some more agendas, to try to behave. I've got one of the next points, even for one ratification I have questions here to answer, what are we ratifying? So, we agree on this, if you want to go down to the point by the point where someone suggests access or stop here completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12523	Okay, thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I don't think the work so far has been at the expense of the quality of the debate at any point. If we now appreciate that we can, since the other points are that I can wait for the next session, I can accept that we stop here and continue at a regular session. Please don't make a precedent between these three points now, but leave them for the next session. It'll be very soon and we'll finish these. So let's continue from the 18th point of the agenda. Thank you very much. And to be surprised, Mr. Novaković, really. Here you go. I mean, look.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12524	Since you have proposals to amend the board members and that indeed some of us are already on too many committees and others under-engaged, I see no reason at all why it is a problem to ratify agreements that we otherwise ratify in the way we ratify and replace (?) members of the commission. And this point isn't questionable that this point, maybe I didn't get it right. So I agree to postpone this point and keep the rest of us going. I thought I heard a proposal to interrupt the session, that's what I mean. I'm sorry. 135
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12525	No, don't look. So we can decide to accept the proposal to leave the 18th point for the next session, to complete the Commission's appointment of ratification or to stop now. Shall we go first? Please, can we be constructive? Come on, I'm the one who put up a terrible pressure today, pretty unencumbered, and I've shown that I can appreciate the mood. Let's find out, finish the session when we've left this much time. And my suggestion is to accept the proposal, because there's really been a lot of effort from the commission, there's a lot of work going on, it's an important question. This is one of Parliament's fundamental roles, to leave it for the next point. This is the second, these two points of 19th and 20th, I also accept that we can finish them today and put this one into commission. Here's Mr. Lagumdžija, if you'd like to come along, but here's the real deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12527	I would also like to wait 20 floors a) to postpone for the next session, to have someone from the Council of Ministers come to us and tell us what we ratify this $32 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12528	Under a) is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12529	Yes, under a)
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12530	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12531	To tell us what it's about because the material we've got doesn't show it. If anyone can explain,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12532	Okay, thank you. I think this way we can get out, point 18. The Commission's report on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum, on the state of human rights in the Arizona market, is being left for the next session. We agree on that. Thank you very much. Moving to nineteenth point, Ad.19. Permission, appointment of membership committee of the House of Representatives, we have recently two new representatives. The team of clubs has received proposals on the appointment of new representatives to the commission. From the SDA Club, we have a proposal to appoint 136 Mrs. Mubera Ušanović in the Commission for Gender Equality in BiH instead of Mrs. Seada Palavrić, and to appoint Mrs. Mubera Ušanović in the Administrative Commission instead of Šefik Džaferović as well. I beg your pardon, may we make a statement on these proposals? I'm asking the House to make a statement on the suggestions I've read. Please vote now. With – 33 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, I find that the House of Representatives, instead of Mrs. Seade Palavrić, appointed Mrs. Mubera Ušanović, as a member of the Commission for Gender Equality in BiH, and instead of Šefik Džaferović Mrs. Mubera Ušanović as a member of the Administrative Commission. Thank you. We received a proposal from the SDS Club to appoint Mrs Mara Perkanović and the Commission for Human Rights and Migration of Refugees and Asylum, instead of Mr Miloš Jovanović, also Mrs Mara Perkanović, at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. I'm asking the House to make a statement on this proposal. Vote now. I konsatatiram that with – 33 votes no one against, no one abstentioned, the House of Representatives appointed Ms. Mara Perkanović instead of Mr. Momčilo Novaković as a member of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, and instead of Mr. Miloš Jovanović as a member of the Commission for Human Rights and Migration, refugees and asylum. Thank you. The HDZ Representatives' Club has proposed changing members of the Parliamentary Assembly's delegation to the Central European Initiative, and suggests that Mr Vinko Zorić be appointed as an delegation instead of Mr Filip Andrić. Please make your point on this proposal. Vote now. I agree that the House with - 33 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, unanimously accepted the proposal that Mr Vinko Zorić, instead of Mr Filip Andrić, was appointed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Central European Initiative. I thank the MPs for this gallanting and understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12533	You didn't remember, Martina. So instead of Filip Andrić, also in the Finance Commission, Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12534	Can we make a statement about this proposal? I'm asking the House to plead. Vote now. With – 31 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, I find that, instead of Mr Filip Andrić, in the membership of the Finance Commission and the budget, Mrs Ruža Sopta is appointed. Thank you. So we exhausted the 19th agenda. 137 We're going to the 20th, that's Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification, so now according to this amendment we accepted, I suggest that the House be declared. The word was asked for by Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12535	...I didn't agree to take the floor a) off the agenda. So I don't agree to take this off the agenda. I don't see any real reason to take it off. If we're already ratifying the others, then I'm asking that we make a statement as to whether or not we're ready to take off.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-1.u12536	Okay. I would like to put Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal to leave point 20 under (a) for the next session, and to ensure the justification of the Council of Ministers. I'd like to make a statement about Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal. Vote now when it's in favour? For - 29,22, - 10 v, and 1 abstention. A sufficient entity majority, Mr Lagumdžija's proposal and approval for ratification were accepted and under (a) the first amendment to the Agreement on the Credit Agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development... at the next session. Please, now it is our turn to give consent to ratification, so the Agreement between BiH and the Swiss Confederation on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments, the Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Montenegro on the return of refugees from BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. I'm opening a debate on granting consent to ratify these three agreements. Anybody want some? He doesn't want anyone, I'm closing the argument. Can we make a statement in the package? I ask the House to declare its consent to ratify these three agreements. Vote now. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives with -31 votes for, unanimously, no one against, no abstention, agreed to ratify the Agreement between BiH and Switzerland, the confederate of promotion and reciprocal investment protection, the Agreement on Scientific Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return of refugees from BiH-Montenegro. I thank the MPs and conclude today's 35th session of the House of Representatives. Sit down and finish work at 2:45.
