ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3505	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please insert your cards here. There are 13 delegates present at the session, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. So delegates Tomislav Limov and Mr. Halid Genjac justified the lack of a summary that they were prevented from being at today's session. For the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose the following updated Agenda 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record of the 28th and 29th meetings of the House of Peoples, 3rd. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation for 2002, 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, 6. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, 7. Proposed conclusion of the College of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. I'm a colleague of Čengić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3506	Here I want Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, using the opportunity to greet you and to marvel at the fact that we don't have representatives of the Council of Ministers here today. I think it would be good if we stopped this session and didn't work. I think it's an extremely inadmissible way and an inadmissible relationship between the executive and this respected home. I'm looking for a five-minute break to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3507	Break five minutes. We're continuing the 30th session. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Čengić, you'd like to propose.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3508	Nothing, I just wanted to say, since no one has appeared from the representatives of the motions of these today's documents that we should plead to propose to the College to decide on. I think it's normal for us to give 30 minutes to have the proposing's representative show up, if he doesn't show up, then we'll interrupt this session and you'll schedule a second term for the session. I would just like to remind you that on the agenda of our today's session there are also agreements on the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. on financial co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Germany, in which there are some very clear commitments both on the one hand and on the other. In order to be able to decide, we will probably all want to hear some information and information about what happens when it happens, for example. The funds were to be withdrawn in 2002, and the withdrawal contract was signed in 2004. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an economist, but I can't understand that much without an explanation. I think it will be necessary for the Council of Ministers who are under way to give us the necessary explanation in order to make decisions. In that sense, I propose that the College decide on this and give a deadline for the Council of Ministers to appear, and if they do, then we interrupt the session while we schedule a follow-up when the Council of Ministers is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3509	I thank my colleague, Čengić. 3 Here I have a report from the committee proposing that the Parliamentary Assembly make a decision on granting consent to ratification. Now these are some new moments, so we should practically get a new report from the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3510	I apologize for the replica. So I'm not sure I'm gonna need a new commission report. But for me as a member of the House, and I'm not a member of that committee, I have dilemmas and questions. I'm sorry, if someone was supposed to pull the money by the end of 2002 and if they didn't pull it off, that money couldn't spend any more. The agreement doesn't show which projects exactly. You can't tell if the money's been withdrawn. Whether it's fully withdrawn or not. In what way it was spent, and that all foresees an agreement as a commitment. A contract signed in 2004, I'm sorry, but I have to ask for some arguments. I think it's possible that the funds were to be withdrawn in 2002, and that a contract was signed this year in the fourth month. That's what it says in the document that I got. Maybe it's some kind of printing error. I'm sorry. Even if it is, I still have to get an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3511	I give my word to my colleague Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3512	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, honored guests, journalists, I'm trying to make one of my little contributions to try and work this out. I agree completely and join all those who consider it inappropriate and unacceptable that we do not have a proposing representative at the sittings, because there is obviously a need for their presence and for certain clarifications. However, this time Mr Hasan Čengić has a comment, then I would only like to see these documents, or reports signed by Mr Čengić on behalf of the commission, at least a consistent reserve, or the fact that there were no good reasons. I.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3513	It's not my commission, it's the Finance Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3514	Excuse me, yes, it is. So, I think that if the committee thinks that these arguments are valid, then she needs her own report to be complemented, or if she thinks that, be careful, it should mean agreeing with the Commission's position and here this request here regarding the need for the presence of the proposing representatives at these points, because otherwise we won't be able to solve it. Of course, we are all calling for our one conclusion from the beginning of our work in this term where we have said that we insist that the proposing representative be present at all sessions when necessary, and that is whenever the subject is referred to on behalf of an institution, that the representative of that institution be present at the session to assign everything, necessary questions. I think we'd better discuss this with the committee responsible. If they feel that there are no conditions to consider these materials, or points, I would need their attitude. So that's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3515	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Čengić
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3516	I don't want this to turn out to be some kind of controversy, but let me just remind you that there are three points in the jurisdiction of two different committees in relation to today's agenda. Therefore, this item of the agenda on the Agreement with Germany is in the jurisdiction of the Administrative Finance or Financial Administration Commission, and the other two points are within the competence of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. At today's session, however, we discussed two issues from our jurisdiction, but without the presence of the proposing representatives, what we have and for what we have prepared, which is why we have taken a position and prepared a letter to the College of the House on this matter. So we thought it was under quotes a small mistake for gentlemen, that they were so significant that they could not descend to the level of a parliamentary commission. But now I see that it's not a formal mistake, but that it's obviously some kind of attitude, whether it's new or not, so they don't show up at the House session. Therefore, one commission cannot decide on that. I therefore propose to the Honorable College that you consider this question, you as a College and decide on it. And the question is very simple – except for the sessions at which this House would consider the sole issues of the functioning of the House, or the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore exclusively and not related to financial functioning, at all other meetings representatives of the Council of Ministers must be present. I don't understand what we're doing, and what the Council of Ministers does if we're sitting here, and the Council of Ministers doesn't need to be present and informed about what we're doing. I mean, I don't understand that way at all, that approach to that function. For that reason, I think this is a principle question that we really need to decide on once and determine on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3517	I thank my colleague, Čengić. A colleague, Vinko Radovanović. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3518	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Čengić has said exactly what I wanted to say. I think this is an opportunity to solve things in principle, not related to a proposing representative, a certain item of the agenda at today's session. I think that from this session today we should make one request, in the form of the Council of Ministers, and ask them to attend representatives of the Council of Ministers, or ministries, whether they have agendas at the session or not. So, not about the agenda point. My opinion is that the representatives of the Council of Ministers should be present and familiar with the whole situation, not just what is happening in their ministry. Perhaps today is a chance to ask the Council of Ministers for one conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3519	Thank you, fellow Radovanović. Mr Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3520	I have to apologize here, and I have to tell Mr. Radovanović that there are such conclusions in this house and that such conclusions and such letters have been sent to the Council of Ministers. I, too, must say that at several meetings, where I participated in some discussions with the Council of Ministers, I stressed the need for representatives of the Council of Ministers, i.e. ministers or their assistants to be at the House meeting, especially at those times, when projects from their ministry are being discussed, because very often there is a need to clarify things, to better consider things. However, the Council of Ministers, as you see, has been deafening our demands for a long time, and I am a person who thinks that the Council of Ministers, we must very seriously reprove and say that this is no longer possible. Tell the Council of Ministers clearly and loudly that it must do so or this House will reach out for a little more rigorous decisions, and we will ask the ministers a question and trust, and we will ask the question and trust of the work of the entire Council of Ministers. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3521	Thank you, Mr. Pamuk. nada Radović, and Dr Hilmo.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3522	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just to clarify the commission, the Administrative Financial Commission has been considering this agreement and has heard the explanation of the Ministry of Finance, so the reasons for the agreement and unanimously accepted it. So, I'm not gonna get my idea that we're having a dilemma about it. Here is the principle issue of the presence of representatives, which is 6 normal and logical to this House of the Council of Ministers. And, I think it's good to give them a clear message, that in future not only this agreement, not only these laws, which are today, but in the future it would be normal and logical, what Mr. Čengić said, to be depicted representatives of the Council of Ministers and those people who are relevant, are in matter to explain either the laws or decisions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3523	Thank you, fellow Radović. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3524	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests On my part, I would, respecting the reasons for this debate, suggest that we act or try to act, to say quite certain, that we no longer deal with these principle issues and that we consider in accordance with, in fact, to set ourselves on the agenda and to consider each individual point, as appropriate to the requirements, which it includes. If we conclude that at the second point, then one of the delegates has objections to the Commission's report or if there are questions, and we can't be sure that the commission can be a lawyer or a Council of Ministers' tax collector, and if it's unsatisfactory by that point, of course we can either reject it or return it to the Council of Ministers that we are considering it when we can get the full answers. So, I suggest we set ourselves up according to the agenda, accept the proposed agenda, and take the point separately and determine each point, in a way that we may accept the Commission's position, without question, there may be questions, here, we have heard and can expect them. If they are, obviously the commission cannot represent the Proposer in this case of the Convention and the Convention will either refuse or return to the Proposer. So I suggest we set ourselves up according to the agenda, not to question the whole agenda, because of two or three points, which are the most important, to say, part of today's work of our home, but to solve the point by point, so what can we solve, which we don't solve, we're going to return it to the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3525	I thank my colleague Neimarlija. My kolega Filipović, and my colleague, brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3526	Thank you very much for your word. I welcome all those present in the hall, I, in principle, welcome from the bottom of my soul and accept the remarks of every representative, who wants to have here when discussing certain points of the agenda of the authorised proposings and in principle that we have our own rules of procedure, that the Council of Ministers, therefore, as the executive authority of this state, follow the work of Parliament's sessions, including our home. But I do have a small deviation from the proposal that if there is no one here today from the Council of Ministers, we stop working on the proposed agenda. Why? Please, nice. Not a single item on the agenda today, by an authorised proposing, and that is the Council of Ministers. We have, according to our Rules of Procedure, Article 139c. 7 The Council of Ministers is required to monitor the work of this house. It is necessary to follow, but I would not oblige him to do so under this Rules of Procedure, especially today, and for this agenda, because it is the materials of the jurisdiction to say foreign policy, which is in the responsibility of the BiH Presidency, that is, the proposer of all these agenda points, before the debate on the respective committees of this House, was the Presidency, not the Council of Ministers. Because of this, I don't think I would take for a sin and I wouldn't take it now, I wouldn't be an advocate if we were to stop working today, because we don't have anyone here from the Council of Ministers, since they are here and the whole government is here, and I don't know if we would now and in relation to these circumstances spoken of by Mr. Člengić in principle, therefore, in principle, we can always ask one of the MPs, regardless of what international legal act it is. We here should only give consent to these acts on points sorted by agenda, give consent to ratification and nothing more. Let our further desire for more know would certainly be welcome to sit here gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, but please nice, they're gone. The authorising officer and signator of acts on the agenda is the Bureau, not the Council of Ministers. That is why I hold, therefore, the remark in principle that, following the work of the House by the Council of Ministers, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, respect the Rules of Procedure under which the House works, but today do not delay the debate on the proposed agenda, because there is no one from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3527	I thank my colleague Filipović. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3528	Dear Chairman, I'm going to try to be very brief and I want to say what we were saying on the committee today, because the same thing happened to us that nobody was on the committee, but then we said what should be proposed? So there were suggestions to write a letter to each other to the Presidency, so to the Government, then we decided to write a letter to our colleague, who will take it, we have three conclusions there, which you will get in writing. But I want to say something in principle. As long as we don't postpone one session because there's no proposings, there's no presidency, there's no one, there's no government, this is going to happen to us. This has been happening for a year and a half. I wasn't, after all, writing letters. We've written them all you want. The letters don't say, no one respects them. I think we should do something concrete or interrupt the session or the College here tells us we'll talk to them, so we'll let you know what happened on the oral conversation with the Council of Ministers, with the predsjedništvo, so we can know what it is. The rich don't write any more letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3529	Thank you, fellow Brk. Mr. Čengić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3530	If I accept the arguments made by Mr. Ilija Filipović, obviously in order to preserve our work and do what is possible. So, according to my assessment, it remains that only points 2 and 3 are possible without the Council of Ministers, in particular point 3 is, in my opinion, important, indeed. However, with this issue of principled relations between the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, namely the Council of Ministers' relations to the sessions at home, let me just remind all my colleagues, I believe they know that, but here, let me tell you. The number of acts sent from the House of Nations 025016730/04. Since 21.9. says. In accordance with Article 141 and with Article 139c. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we would like to inform you that on Monday 27.9.2004, starting at 12 o'clock, is scheduled for 30 sessions of the House. Please inform the members of the Council of Ministers on the maintenance of the 30th session of the House, that is number one. And number two. If we look at the proposal for a conclusion, proposed by the Honorable College as a complement to the agenda, these conclusions apply to equal five laws. For these five laws, the Council of Ministers proposes. On the other hand, we have a letter from the BiH presidency since 16 September 2004, where in point 2. The presidency says, the Council of Ministers is tasked with removing certain legal and technical ambiguities in agreement with the OHR, taking into account the objections of the Court of Justice and delivering to the Presidency the consolidated text of the laws to be adopted. So, did the Council of Ministers do it? Maybe you have some memo, which is, I don't have as an MP. I now want to understand, especially to ask my esteemed colleague Filipović, who, with everything else and an excellent lawyer, is he really thinking after this, if today we're going to discuss this conclusion of yours, does he really think we don't need the Council of Ministers, I think we should. Excuse me. For that reason, I suggest that you, as a College, withdraw and decide what to do next. You've heard, I mean, enough arguments on both sides. If it were just a matter of principled relationship, it would be enough. And if we go into surgery, then we'll do the next one. If you don't decide now, then we'll have the same debate at each point. I repeat, I think it's important that we work, I think it's important that we make decisions, but I also think that we can make decisions only if we have quality information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3531	I thank my colleague, Čengić. A kolega of Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3532	Thank you very much for your word. In a way, Mr. Čengić called me. I'll say it very briefly. This conclusion that you as a College have proposed is the conclusion relating to the future work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as responsible for the set of these laws mentioned by Mr Čengić. 9 I, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and its chairman, and how I think that, in relation to this agreement and the cited act of the Bureau referred to the Council of Ministers in relation to the agreement which is the basis for a set of these laws which we should consider as a relevant and competent commission when agreed, perhaps in a term which you have proposed or in another term and that I think that the presence of members from the Council of Ministers is necessary, not at the House, but at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission when we are. We won't hold her unless there's anyone from the Council of Ministers. I guarantee it to you as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because it's extremely important, every law is important, and this one is extremely, extremely important, because it touches some of the principles that we haven't had so far and want to inaugurate into this country's judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3533	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Is anyone else answering for word? Time out for 15 minutes for the college to get along. Fellow delegates, respected representatives of public information funds, I continue my dear guests. [[PAUZA]] The college on this break that we had agreed to continue to work today, with today's session, and I will now put this agenda to the vote. I'm opening a vote on the agenda. All right, you can vote. So the agenda of all 13 delegates was unanimously adopted. So we move to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions The answer to the delegate's question is Hilmo Neimarlija. Is my colleague Neimarlija satisfied with the answer? Maybe a little clarification. In the last session, you received that answer, so you were not present in the first part of the session because you were late for traffic problems. So now you don't have that answer on you. All right. Let's leave it for the next session to come forward, shall we? Okay. 10 Any new delegate questions? Vinko Radovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3534	I thank the chairman. With this question of mine, there are two dilemmas. The first dilemma is whether to ask a question at all, because two months ago I asked two questions, and I haven't got an answer yet. And the second dilemma, as far as this issue is concerned, is who we should address this question to, so I addressed it to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, OHR and the Constitutional Court. What's this about? My question is: Did we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in addition to the parliaments and the High Representative, also get a third legislative body in the Constitutional Court as two legislative bodies? Namely, what it's about. The final decision of the Constitutional Court is in fact a legislative decision and it is the Law amending the Law on Territorial Organisation in Republika Srpska. Another issue related to this issue is – Who in Bosnia and Herzegovina actually assesses the constitutionality of the decisions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court's decision may be unconstitutional, and who is it that can assess that decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3535	I thank my colleague Radovanović. He found a foothold here in article 122, so that issues can be raised by extraordinary delegates can ask questions in writing concerning specific facts and situations and others, not just the Council of Ministers. So there. Okay. All right. Keep going. There are no reports. I'm concluding this first item of the agenda. So we move to the next item of the agenda, which is Ad2. A record of the 28th and 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Who answers the word? Mr. Đoko Pajić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3536	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, I have only one brief objection to this report on page 7 under point 23. The proposal for a law on the Red Cross Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, then I took the floor and I made a proposal, i.e. my opinion on the law. But it doesn't seem here that I've been involved in it at all. So someone who keeps a record on all the points of the agenda needs to figure it out and put it in the record. That's it. Page 7 point 23. Proposal for a law on the Red Cross Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3537	Okay. No more reports. So we will now declare this record, and there will be an observation in the minutes of today's session. I'm opening a vote. - 11 for, 2 abstentions. I find the law passed, the record, the apology, not the law. So I'm realizing that there are logs from the 28th and 29th sessions of the House of Peoples. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been given to you by the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted a Joint Commission Report at the 44th session held on 23 September 2004. So I'm opening a vote. - 13 for, so we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission Report. We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is Add.4. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation for 2002 You have received a report from the competent commission. The word came from Nada Radović, therefore chaired by the committees in charge. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3538	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues, is the Commission for Administrative Finance of the Affairs of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to Article 79(2). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discussed the Agreement and unanimously adopted it, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and proposed to Parliament, or the House of Peoples, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3539	I thank my colleague, Radović. Mr. Hasan Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3540	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, respected media representatives, I will set up a dilemma here, since I have already discussed this, I will not repeat that I find it inadmissible to discuss this agreement without a proposing representative. In this case, for me, it is a representative of the Council of Ministers' proposal and for the reason that the implementation of this agreement is on the Council of Ministers. So in, I ask you if someone, I have here a version of this cover text, and it's still Latin, so if in these Bosnian languages there are other versions and other data, I'm going to ask my colleagues to fix me. Maybe it's a printing error. But I'll let you say it like this. He says, I quote the title page signed by Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers Ranko Ninković, in which he says -- an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation for 2002. A second sentence says -- the agreement was signed by Mr Ljerka Marić, the finance minister and Bosnia and Herzegovina's vault in Sarajevo, on 6 April 2004. With respect. And then he goes on to say, now writes Dr Mladen Ivanić, the Foreign Ministry and writes – to the BiH presidency and says – I am delivering a draft decision on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation for 2002, concluded in Sarajevo on 6.4.2004. I would like to remind you that at its 25th session, held on 8 October 2003, the BiH Presidency adopted that agreement and authorised Finance and Treasury Minister Ljerka Marić to sign it. And I am now reading the Agreement alone which, among other things, says in Article 2(3), the amount referred to in Article 1(1) of point 3 will be provided from special funds that must be paid by 31 December 2002. Let us return to Article 1 paragraph 3. says this - contribution to the financing of the Project credit programme for crisis regions, under quotes of 4 million EUR 500 000 in total, in letters of four million five hundred euro. 13 So these 4 million 500,000 euros must be withdrawn by 31 December 2002. He says they're meant for a credit programme for crisis regions. I'm interested in: - what are crisis regions; what is the credit programme; how much funds have been withdrawn; how much has been spent; who has checked that they were spent in what they were spent; who has confirmed that all the funds have been spent; how much funds have been withdrawn; how many funds have not been withdrawn further, should questions be asked, here I will wait for answers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3541	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else picking up? Since there are no promoters, is as we have found, there is no one to answer these questions that Col. Čengić has asked, and we have accepted, we have adopted the agenda, so I can only put it to the vote, since there are no more discussions reported. I'll open the vote. So who's up for it, excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3542	Now, if you put it to a vote, then we can have two situations. One is that colleagues who have a possible need for an answer like me are suspicious because they have no answers and vote against. If we vote against this agreement in the House of Peoples, it's a very bad message to the federal government, the Federal Republic of Germany. If we vote in favour, and we do not have an answer to these questions, then we will in public confirm that we are not at all responsible for the spending of public funds, according to the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers' commitment to spending the funds, and that it is very easy to take the funds in 2002, spend them in 2002, sign an agreement on these funds in 2004, and then finely dry the House of Peoples ratifys the House of Peoples and says that everything is fine, regardless of how much money is spent. I personally don't want to be in any of these two positions. I highly appreciate, as I am sure I share the opinion of all of us here and the role of the Government of the Republic of Germany towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, the assistance we have, the economic co-operation we have, and I believe we must be responsible. On the other hand, I really don't, I'm not saying at all that there's been any illegal behaviour or business with these assets. But I don't have any information to make sure it's done that way. For that reason, I think the only solution possible at this time is to postpone the statement on this point and leave it for the next House session, and in the 14th time we ask for someone who has information and the fact about this issue to be present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3543	I thank my colleague, Čengić. He's also on that trail with the Kolegijum. Here's Nada Radović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3544	Well, I don't mean to be the Council of Ministers' attorney or the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury. However, we must be aware of the fact that we must trust those institutions we choose. So here the parliamentary delegation, or our delegation from the previous call, signed, so we must respect some continuity and have been representatives of both governments. So, according to the information we received on the commission, they agreed on where these funds are and which are crisis regions, i.e. credits for crisis regions and withdrawals by 31 December 2010. If it's not ratified, then it's not gonna happen. So the condition to withdraw is the ratification of this agreement. I agree with Mr Hasan that there must be information about everything, especially that it must have the House of Peoples, or a full Parliamentary Assembly, but this adoption does not mean that we will not ask for a comprehensive report whether in any way, not only of these but also of overall responsibilities, because we will have on the agenda and the total responsibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't think there is any reason why we can't accept this and leave ourselves space, and it is our obligation to tell all the ambiguities and clarifications in this and other loans that have been withdrawn and we haven't been directed to their spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3545	Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3546	Respecting fellow nadeti, but respecting the fact that we have only six days, or five days until the election, in my previous address, I have not mentioned that fact, but now I will be very clear, the past Council of Ministers' meeting is not chosen by my party. You can't expect me to back up without knowing what happened. I respect continuity and I don't mind. I will, instead of this debate, just remind you, please once again to Article 2rd paragraph 3 in full which is literally the amount referred to in Article 1(1) point 3., which is EUR 4.5 million for crisis regions will be provided from special funds that must be paid by 31 December 2002. Therefore, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany will, through the Credit Bank for Reconstruction together with the selected recipients, verify in due time the extent to which it will be possible to achieve this. The amount of funds that it may not be certain will still be withdrawn before that date no longer be promised on July 5th 2002. 15 The promise is one thing, the agreement is another. So there was some promise that was the basis, and then there was an agreement. I repeat, I don't think anything was done incorrectly. But since I don't have any concrete information about it, I can't plead. It's not good that you bring me personally, maybe someone else into the situation to vote for something I don't know, or at the same time vote against an agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany which is unacceptable, which is unimaginable. Because we actually need, not just this one, but a lot of other agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany. So for all these reasons, I don't think we've done anything wrong, that we've sent a bad signal, if we just come in a position to have answers and then finally make a decision maybe at the next session in seven days, I don't know how many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3547	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3548	I answered the word very briefly. So I'm in favour of preserving the integrity of our permanent bodies in this home. If the relevant committee has taken a position and proposed that the House marry be given consent to ratifying this agreement, I would like to respect it. With all due respect to all this we have heard from our esteemed colleague Čengić, I would suggest that we also accept the Commission's report, give consent to ratifying this act, and all these questions and all of these dilemmas that we have heard from Mr Čengić to refer as a question and ask for a brief, therefore my opinion, to answer these questions as soon as possible. Obviously, it is clear which address and choir all of this is addressed by Mr. Čengić. He's right about that, too. But I think not accepting the commission's report and not giving consent to ratifying this agreement would border on an excess diplomatic with the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3549	Thank you, fellow Filipović. Anyone else want to talk? Here is the College coming out with a proposal so that we can plead on this agreement, and after the adoption of the agreement to propose a conclusion to clarify all these issues that Mr Čengić spoke about. So I'm going to do what I said is that I'm going to propose to the Kolegijum how I'm going to proceed and I'm going to give, I'm going to open a vote on the ratification of this agreement. You can vote now. - Nine for, three abstentions, one against. 16 So the House of Peoples agreed to ratify the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation for 2002. And the conclusion of this which I mentioned earlier, so let's ask the Council of Ministers to answer what's been realised from these funds so far. We might, we'll formulate it a little bit better, but in that sense, it'll be a question of why the funds from this program were spent. So I'll put this conclusion to the vote. Who's to make this conclusion? - 12 for one against. So this conclusion was adopted. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3550	So I voted against both the first and second times for a very clear reason. I think we need to take a principled stand on how we're going to work. I respect every body of this House and the Parliamentary Assembly, but I don't think it's the way to defend us from something that doesn't exist, we have nothing to defend the commission against these issues that exist. I think we must finally come into a position to talk openly about doing every job and that the public and the Parliamentary Assembly have the opportunity to get the necessary information before making decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3551	I thank my colleague, Čengić. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad.5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention establishing the Council for Customs Cooperation Report of the Competent Commission you have received. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify the agreement at the 44th session held on 23 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3552	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered this agreement, the Convention and faced the problem of the absence of a proposing representative. 17 It has been informed that the reason is that the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers interprets and believes that the proposing representative, in this case and otherwise in the case of conventions on the international agreement with the BiH Presidency, and not in the Council of Ministers, has refused to send representatives to the Council of Ministers. Our commission has been considering this issue and has taken two positions. It has been said that it will propose to the House to give its consent to this Convention and at the same time has taken a position to ask the College of the House to resolve the issue in the discussion and in consultations with the competent authorities to resolve the question of who is the authorised promoter to present such documents on the committees and the House. Is that the Presidency or the Council of Ministers? It is strange that such a question is first asked by the Secretary-General, not by the Council of Ministers, which is really very strange. I think it's a precedent for the secretary general to interpret such questions. Another is strange, too, because the issue is now being raised, after a year and a half of the work of this home in this term, that is, more than a year and a half of the work, almost two years, without the question being asked in the meantime. And third, of course, that the Commission was disabled by the fact that there were no proposings to which questions could possibly be referred. In this respect, the Commission has therefore drawn up conclusions that will refer to the College asking for an answer, or a position, or a solution to the issue of further proposing the representation of the pedestals on the competent committees. Now I see from today's state of affairs and at the very sessions of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3553	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Who else is answering for a word? There are no reports. Who is to give consent to the ratification of the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council? I'm opening a vote. - 11 for, 1 abstention. I therefore find that consent has been given to the ratification of the Convention establishing the Council for Customs Cooperation. We move to the sixth point of today's agenda, which is Ad.6. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the navigation regime under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin You have received a report from the competent commission. 18 The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 44th session held on 23 September 2004. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3554	So the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy as the committee responsible has considered this agreement and faced the same problem as with this Convention that we just adopted. All, the conclusion of the representatives' presence is the same, and the Commission's conclusions are the same, and as far as the content of this agreement is concerned, so this is an addition to a really existing agreement which, first of all, may be the most important question of depositaries since we have already agreed as a Parliamentary Assembly to ratify this agreement, it is now defined that the depositary is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the obligation of all signatories to have the documents on ratification and other documents of delivery to the depositary, and again to inform about further action. In this case, the Commission, noting that there were no proposing representatives, has made a proposal to give its consent to this Agreement or to ratify it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3555	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Is anyone else answering for word? Niko. So I'm opening a vote. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? You can vote now. - 11 for, 1 abstention. So I'm realizing that there's been an agreement for ratification. I'm going to the seventh item of the agenda, and that's Ad.7. The conclusion that the College of the House of Nations proposes to the House of Peoples to adopt the text of the Conclusion you have received. I don't think you have a valid explanation on it, and the explanation of why we went with this conclusion is, since this proposal is in line with the adoption schedule for the War Crimes Council Council, so that we can fit into the scheduled deadlines, so that immediately after the end of this constitutional and legal committee for the same day plans to hold and sessions of the People's House with which this will be on the agenda. 19 So I am opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the College. Niko one's answering for a word. I'm opening a vote. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3556	So as you all know, we at last session of the House had a proposal that these laws be considered by article 100 means without the possibility of investing amendments. We made as the House a decision that most votes to change that, however, to follow a shortened procedure under Article 99 and we were expecting a proposal and opinion from the Council of Ministers. What's here in front of us is a proposal to literally pass these laws over the next few days that are extremely important. As far as I'm concerned, I consider it a matter of responsibility for war crimes. It is unquestionable that responsibility in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions is unquestionable and lasting until the process is completed. In that sense, I think we have already lost time when it comes to joining the Partnership for Peace because we have not fulfilled certain obligations under these tasks. There's others now. At least it's a matter of responsibility or carrying out responsibility for war crimes is a political issue, but it's primarily legal. Now with this set of laws, we want to settle this issue and this area. The question arises, however, whether the solutions offered here are solutions that will enable legal and independent, legally justified, fair, independent trial or can lead to a situation where individual cases and perhaps the whole process will begin to be politicised, not only for certain cases to gain political character, but for them to grow into relationships that will have political implications and in broader relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, in order for that to not happen, it is obvious that this legislation or these solutions should be so set up as to be legally justified and acceptable, so to be recognizable in relation to legally regulated states and international law, and above all to avoid volunteering. Some of the solutions found here may be disputed with several points of view from the fact that the question of what will happen with the time already spent in custody, or from the fact that what will happen with the time spent in custody, and perhaps even being freed from further responsibility to the question in which the proceedings will be chosen by judges and lawyers, judges, prosecutors, and even lawyers, or even to the question of how the proceedings of the court itself will be resolved. The question here is, of course, whether we have made one clear enough that we are a legal country, that we are a country already a member of the Council of Europe, that we are a country that wants to start negotiations with the European Commission on accession and then become a full member of the European Community. The process we're talking about is the execution of 20 responsible for the gold crimes before the court will take years, absolutely certain. So the question arises whether we are going to regulate this area in such a way that it is not recognised by international standards or even against international standards. Are we finally going to make decisions to transfer the legislative authority to court? It's all very serious questions. And for this reason on the one hand and for the reason that in the last week of the pre-election campaign for municipal elections, which are important for the citizens of this country, are important for all municipalities, are important for the political parties that are here in this House. I have the impression that this dynamicization is in an attempt to dynamicize towards the end of this month or this week is actually a kind of politicizing of this issue. The issue is incomparably more serious than the municipal elections issue, and incomparably more serious than the issue on September 30th 2004. To conclude, I'm absolutely up for anyone who's committed or suspected of a war crime answering. He must have the opportunity to be accountable to an objective and fair court under a legally established and fair procedure that will be based on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as international criminal and other norms. In this regard, I think it is much more important that we get quality laws that allow this process to run in accordance with legal standards, global and domestic and ensure that there is no possibility of politicising or individual cases, let alone the whole process. For this reason, I think it is important that we provide time and conditions for the Commission to work on any amendments and find quality solutions. And at the same time, I think it is important that respected colleagues have the opportunity, after the commission has completed their work, in case there is an amendment that they have the opportunity to see which amendments have been accepted, which are not, so that they have the opportunity to consider and submit amendments that have not been made, or find arguments, or possibly if new circumstances arise, to provide satisfactory amendments. For that reason, I think it's important that the commission does its job, and I think it would be good if we agreed on one thing. If the commission thinks there's enough time until Thursday to prepare the amendments and do the job Thursday, I support it. I'm not sure it would be a good idea for the same Thursday when the commission finishes work, if we had a session of the House, and it would be particularly bad to say right now that the commission works at 10 and the House of 12. So that would be inadmissible for me if we limited the time at which the commission will work. If it happens that we still have a situation that we have today that we don't have representatives on the committee, then we have a particularly problematic situation. For this reason, I support the proposal given in the written form of the College, with an additional proposal that after the Commission has completed its work, the College should decide from the House on the date of its meeting. So, not before that, because the commission can work the clock, and it can work six hours. The commission can work today and may decide to continue tomorrow. We've had such cases in multiple commissions, including mine. So I think it's very important that the commission does its job professionally, quality and does it in a way that we have 21 clear views so that we don't get into a situation where, by changing one or two amendments, we get a law that will be contradictory to ourselves in some solutions and that after that, when we get the Commission's views, we go into debate at the House, which can be the moment we're ready for it. Is it Thursday, is it Friday, next Monday, etc. That's what I think the College should decide after having the Commission's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3557	Thank you, fellow Čengić, for his proposal. Is there anyone else here to discuss this part of the agenda? Sir, are you? I didn't see the button. So I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We therefore have a proposal for a conclusion proposed by the Kolegijum, and we will now declare it. Which was written, the suggestion of a conclusion, with the explanation I read to you. So what's the reason for that? Therefore, since the proposal for a conclusion is in line with the timetable for the adoption of the package for the establishment of the War Crimes Council. Would you like to take your word for it?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3558	Can I just have a minute? I'm sorry. We only have a written proposal here for the commission's work on Thursday. And of what is written, We have spoken of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3559	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3560	All right. Okay. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-27-0.u3561	That's right, that's right. We vote on the proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a vote. - 13 for, unanimously, the House's conclusion has been adopted. The next meeting of the House of Peoples will be scheduled in accordance with the Kolegijum's decision, and the Kolegijum has already agreed on the issue and the session will therefore be held at 12 o'clock Thursday. 22 You will receive the agenda during this day, now, to be divided immediately. I'm closing the session. The sit-down's over for 14.50 hours.
