ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2900	Gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, I welcome you to the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the very beginning, I apologize for the delay in today's session, and here I promise that in the next period we will be more accurate. All 15 delegates are present at the session. Of course 5 of the Bosniak people, 5 of the order of the Croatian and 5 of the Serb people. For the 25th session, I suggest the next updated 1. Answering Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Journal of the 24th National Assembly, 3. Appointment of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions Commission, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on accounting and audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Suspension of Suspension of the Application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples 9. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law supplementing the law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 2 12. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 13. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement in BiH under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 14. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Imprisonment, 12 / 15 A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 16. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 17. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 18. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 19. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the House of Representatives, 20. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer of the House of Representatives, 21. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, – first reading 22. Proposal for a Law on Mediation Procedure – First Reading, 23. Proposal for a law on the establishment of the Institute of Measurements oftrology – first reading, 24. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading, 25. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property – first reading, 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the United States of America on the Protection and Conservation of Certain Cultural Property, 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France on the reciprocal improvement and protection of investments, 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the abolition of visas for holders of dipolmatic and official passports, 29. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania, 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automatic processing of personal data and amendments and additions to the Convention on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the automatic processing of personal data, 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Additional Protocol with the Convention for the Protection of Individuals in view of the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow, 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement relating to the preparation and provision of air traffic services and use of devices by Eurocontrol at the Control Centre for the Control of Air Traffic of Central Europe in upper air traffic, 33. Report on the results of the Commission's investigation of the House of Peoples' work to determine the circumstances of Mr. Ante Jelavić, sir. Miroslava Prce and Mr. Miroslav Rupčić, 34. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility on 31.12.2003 and 35. The balance of personnel in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone picking up? Any suggestions for changes and additions? There isn't. 3 I therefore find that the proposed agenda under Article 46 has been adopted. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answering the delegate question were received by colleagues Osman Brka 2 answers, counterpart Hasan Čengić, co-worker Tomisla Limov, Anto Spajić, Velimir Jukić and Ilija Filipović. Are delegates satisfied with the answers? Did you sign up? I see my colleague Tomislav Limov, and you're the first to report, but there's no technique here. I give my word to Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2902	So I got the answer and the answer essentially answers to one of my questions is that at this time the Council of Ministers has no information that it has requested from the competent entity authorities data. I'm glad I got that answer, but I think it's taking a little too long for this data collection. I would only like to speed up this process and get an answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2903	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The word is Mr. Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2904	Now, well-respected gentlemen of the presidents and fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the international community and representatives of information. I welcome all of you together, and I would like to say right away that although I was late to receive a response from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to my envoy's question concerning the fate of 46 children of children of the children's home Ljubica Ivezić from Sarajevo. I hope that the other colleagues received that answer, because the Council of Ministers did not respect the Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Commons, we held a debate on this issue at our last session and established concrete conclusions that give the opportunity to the various institutions of our country to prove their stability after all, at least now. If our conclusions are realized, we, as Parliament, will be able to say that even if we are too late, we have done our job. I must say that the answer that I have received is nevertheless incomplete, partly false and it is clear from it that many officials from the level of the city of Sarajevo to the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina were not at the level of the task. I'm interested in gentlemen, members of the College, will our conclusions, in addition to the other notations, be obtained by the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Unfortunately, from our last session to today, some children have become adult. I want to say today that I am staying at my assessment that this case has been a sort of child trafficking, that the Italian government has kidnapped our children as a spoil of war, that therefore our authority is also responsible and that everything from the very beginning has gone wrong. If Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecution is interested, we will be happy to make available with the rest of the cross-section of one document, which shows that on 22 July 2002, only 5 4 days after the children left the surrounded Sarajevo, a request for the adoption of a minimum child is filed in that requirement from 1 to 3 years of age. Please read, dear colleagues respond to the Council of Ministers and pay attention to the last sentence in which children are said to quote, travel to Bosnia and Herzegovina in search of their identity, which unfortunately find it difficult to find. The end of the quote. Let's do what we can to make that Bosnian Herzegovic identity even when they're there to find it. Better ever than never. As far as the Council of Ministers answers are concerned, it is my message that it is doing what is in its power to implement the conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is exactly what will be an important criterion of judgment and its success as will be given to us by the envoys, our public and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2905	Thank you. The word has Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2906	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I've been given the answer to my question, and I'm not happy with the answer. So this response I requested from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly is more a lesson to the press, because according to this response journalists are guilty of leaking information from Parliament. And I actually think the opposite is that journalists have done their part of the job extremely professionally and professionally looking for information that others could not get to. So we didn't get an answer as to why, and through whom and the service, the secretariat leaked information on the 34th day of the 33rd agenda of the Investigation Commission on the circumstances of the arrest of Mr Jelavič, Prce and Rupčić. In point 1. the journalist knew that there was an investigative committee, and in point 2 he said he did not know the journalist who wrote about who the members of the investigation committee were, so in point 3 he was most likely monitoring for the 4th joint session of both homes and using the presentations of the envoys, i.e. representatives, so it implies that the representatives were the ones who placed the information here. Point 4. talks about the indiscriminateness, point 4 of the response to the misstatement of journalists who do not know who Mr Šiljegović is and the representatives who are at home in the Parliamentary Assembly and in point 5 is a journalist so uninformed that he does not know that there are two investigative committees in both homes. Therefore, in response to the conclusion that the Committee of the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Assembly, no one provided information to the press. So I remain content and dissatisfied with this response by the College of Secretaries and request the College of this House to do its part of the work and to work together with the College of the Other House on these serious issues, to enter into the essence of the work of the Secretariat, and to join each one of them from their authority and from common authority to the secretary of the secretariat until the annual rest of the offer of staff solutions for the Secretary of the House of People, Secretary of the House of Representatives and Secretary of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2907	I thank Mr Filipović. Now we don't have a replica. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2908	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I know it's not the usual to make a replica in this part of the agenda when it comes to questions, but obviously we won't have a chance to talk about this, I answered for the next reason. So, I am really surprised, rather surprised by this kind of bold response that we have received from the Secretariat of the House, that is, the Parliamentary Assembly. This is inadmissible for me. So here someone has given himself the right to educate and to make an elementary semi-literate analysis of a journalist's article, instead of doing his job and to answer how the leak happened. In that sense, I will repeat Mr. Ilija Filipović's request. I, on our commission, asked for foreign and trade policy commissions before, may already be half a year and more in the last year, asked to finally resolve the issue of the secretary and secretary of this house, the Secretariat all the way. However, it certainly did, College, our colleague should have done so as soon as possible. But here I especially insist that you as a College be resilient, insist that an investigation be brought to the end of this matter in which way, not the first, but at least the second or third time in our mandate, leak information. I'm not for the police state, but I am for professionalism. We're obliged to work professionally and we're obliged to work under what's called a secret. If there are things that are required to be secret while they're secret and professional while we work professionally, then it's not just about us, it's about employees at the Secretariat. I'm asking you to take this seriously. Otherwise, we've come to a situation where employees of the Secretariat are teaching the dom and that employees of the Secretariat are playing with the MPs of the dom. That's really inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2909	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The word is Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2910	I thank you and welcome you all and I got an answer to one of my questions, although Jadranko just told me that I got an answer to two. To date, only the question of illustration has come to my attention, and I am very sorry that I received such an answer from Mr. Ivan Čosić, Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers of the Secretariat, where they said they were not planning to work on the Law on illustration at all. As far as I know, and probably you know, as well as the public in Bosnia knows that the climate is and here I can freely say in this home and in public that this law is done. We'll probably do something after that, but I really think that this answer is inadequate and that it shouldn't have come to not doing it at all. It's their job and they'd have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2911	I thank my colleague, Brk. The word is Mr. Anto Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2912	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all here. At the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I asked the envoy's question, and after two sessions, I thought I had received an answer that I was not satisfied with. 6 Today I have that same answer in the same text. So it's normal that I'm not satisfied with this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2913	I thank Mr. Spajić. Obviously, a lot of things need to be done extra. I don't see any more reports. I'm sorry. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2914	Mr. Chairman, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, international organisations, I welcome you all. I asked one question about five months ago, actually a set of questions about the Regulatory Agency for Communications or those old name CRA and one in a set of these issues was a question - national representation, or composition, the structure of employees at the Regulatory Agency and in my first answer to that set of questions that I received about 2 months ago was said, the answer to the other questions was incomplete, incomplete, and the answer to this question was that they did not want to answer, because they did not work as they said and did not ask employees about their national statement. However, I reiterated the answer, estimating that this is important and that this is also one of the obligations written in our constitution that all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina must take care of the national balance, especially in the management, management positions, and bearing in mind the very high powers and the importance of the Communications Regulatory Agency. And I got this answer. I will not comment specifically, but I wanted to comment more on this fact and this way that sometimes we need what is most normal to ask and ask and know that we know and that we know our public knowledge and that we can fix certain bad things with our questions and suggestions, bad solutions, etc. if there are any. That's the goal and the basic goal of my purpose and my intention. So we need to ask them several times to get that information. I don't think it's a good practice and it's a good practice that those who are asked answers correctly, entirely, of course true to all the questions asked. Here's so much in the commentary, and I don't want to be able to repeat the same questions a few times. I believe that all those to whom the questions are addressed are obliged to answer the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2915	I thank my colleague Jukić. The word is Mr. Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2916	Dear gentlemen, the presidents, fellow envoys, distinguished ministers, since you have arrived later, I speak twice, I have chosen today to ask one envoy question because in two days, the full 17 months of our work will be done in this current assembly of the House of Peoples. This is our 25th session. We've passed a series of laws, accepted more information and reports, adopted many decisions, several resolutions and many conclusions. It is certain that we could have done more in the adoption of reform projects, but it was not always up to us. Reform does not mean much, if it remains only on its paprinatom part and should be said that as long as our citizens feel no improvement in their daily lives we will be tempted to explain to our people, our regiment that he is well, but only he does not see it. 7 Why am I saying this? First of all, because the main problem with us is that our laws and our decisions and our conclusions are not implemented in practice as quickly as we need them if we want to avoid our efficiency assessments in the style of high traffic, small profits or shaking hills were born mouse. Here are the esteemed gentlemen, as a text of what I am talking about, I will now ask our colleague, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina one question from which the answer will be clear how our own conclusions are being carried out. The question is: Why has the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina not been realised today at the 12th session held on 30 September 2003, which asks the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to install the security policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the text of the document, in the first quarter of 2004, the Security Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the area of security policy and thus the document of delivery to the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for adoption? The second quarter expires tomorrow. Today we were to be admitted to the Partnership for Peace. In achieving this conclusion, they play their part as our college, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and I expect an answer from all of them in the sense that they say which one of them has done and if something is not what and why is it not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2917	I thank my colleague Limov and he has already moved on to this second part of this agenda, these are new delegate issues. It's Mr. Halid Genjac's turn. Vinko Radovanović, Mr Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2918	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my questions are somewhat related to the realization of the conclusions of the House of Peoples and the joint conclusion of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Namely, on 4. A joint session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples held sometime in January of this year was adopted – to establish, support and co-operate with the Commission to examine the truth about the deaths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period '92-'95. A year. Since it has been almost half a year since I reached that conclusion, I am interested in what stage the realization of this conclusion is and the issue has been addressed to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A second question to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Defence -- at a spring session of the Serb people's Club of Delegates, gave conditional consent to the appointment of General Sakib Porič. We have knowledge that an application has been submitted to the SFOR inspectorate on this general and we are interested – does the Ministry of Defence have any information on what happened under that application? Since there's no one from the Department of Defense, then the answer will probably be in writing. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2919	I thank my colleague Radovanović. Mr Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2920	I also want to say hello, I'm glad we're all together. After these discussions I've heard from our colleagues, I have a duty to say what I'm about to say. Before last week, I attended a meeting where the Council of Ministers discussed the implementation of projects for this Stabilisation and Association Programme. I replaced our fellow Goran, who was absent and I must admit, and there are colleagues present from the government, I have made it clear to the Council of Ministers that the House of Peoples, or MPs of this House, is dissatisfied with co-operation with the Parliament of the Government and this House, or the Council of Ministers and Parliament. I drew attention to the laws we adopt and were adopted the moment Parliament adopted them, not the moment they were adopted by the Council of Ministers. I have expressed my regret over the fact that very rarely, and the ministers, namely from the Council of Ministers, are present at the meetings of our committees, because our home in principle is working on committees and is very seriously discussing on committees all the projects proposed by the Government, and I said that very rarely, the honor of exceptions are here and I mentioned Mr Dodik, who is very often at these meetings and the Deputy Minister of Finance, very rarely are other ministers in our sessions and very rarely we have the opportunity to hear through the legal projects that we are proposing their opinions, i.e. we hear competent opinions through these discussions. A colleague from the Council of Ministers, I have a feeling that they have taken this remark seriously and has one promise that these things will change. However, I think that we should seriously follow that the Council of Ministers and Parliament must work more synchronisedly and here I believe that in the coming period it will be much better. I had an obligation to see here in some way as my own report says what happened in all the relationships. I see that MPs are dissatisfied with the answers to their parliamentary questions, dissatisfied with what I've been talking about, therefore again I find this one new message to the Council of Ministers to work more seriously and take communication more seriously with the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2921	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. The word is Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2922	Dear Chairman, I have one question delegate to the Council of Ministers Chairman - Is it true that the Ministry of Justice employs Popadić Milena and in what capacity is she employed? - Is it a person who used to be a prosecutor in Serbia's Sarajevo, and is listed as a network of war criminals indictees, Radovan Karadžić? I'd like a written answer, and I also have a written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2923	Mr. Šeljegović. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2924	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to greet you all. I refer the delegation issue to the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, it has been accepted by the Competition Agency since 15.4.2004. - How much has a person been admitted and is the national structure respected? And in the course of the competition for a civil servant, 9.6.2004 came out, so I will demand the same answer as in the previous issue of received and national representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2925	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Since I don't see that we still have reports, I'm concluding this agenda point and we're moving on to the second item of the agenda Ad2. A record from the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Does anyone report for a word on this agenda point? Since no one's answering for the 24th session minutes? We're morati have to do this again. He didn't register me. I voted yes, and the rest is that I didn't. So here's what we can do. Who's in? Unanimously, all 15 delegates. The record was unanimously adopted. Third item of the agenda A.3. The appointment of members of the Commission for concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been submitted by the Council of Ministers by a proposal from the Commission for concessions. The House of Representatives appointed members of the Commission for concessions at its 38th session - Milomir Amović, Đoko Slijepčević, Muhamed Karamehmedović, Hamed Mešanović, Nikola Antunović, Ivo Andrić and Mustafa Ramić. Home to the people, also in accordance with Article 8. The concession law should be appointed members of the Commission for concessions. Is anyone picking up? The word is Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2926	I'd like to ask on behalf of the Bosniak Club for a very short five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2927	A five-minute break at the Bosniak Club's request. 10 We have this third item of the agenda and I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2928	The Honored Chairman of the klub of Bošnjak considers the appointment of the Commission for concessions to be extremely important for the Commission and after the procedure that was carried out and after the refusal of the candidate who was originally appointed by the Commission and proposed to the House, we have examined the candidates who were subsequently proposed and we have serious objections to the expertise, calling and competence of the candidate who has been proposed and therefore we have asked for this break. Of course, we'll put our position to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2929	I would, I apologize, I would ask my fellow Genjac, you said it applied to one of the candidates. You want to go now? I thank my fellow Genjac. Who's answering for a word? I think there's no reason why we shouldn't vote individually if we didn't have to be a brake in the formation of this concession commission. Do you agree that we vote individually on candidates? Is there any need for us to vote on this issue? I guess we all agree, don't we? Okay, so here we vote individually on these candidates. So Mr. Milomir Amović. The vote can begin. 14 for, 1 abstention. Mr. Đoko Slijepčević. The vote can begin. Also 14 for, 1 abstention. Mr. Muhamed Karamehmedović. The vote can begin. We have four for, three abstentions, eight against. Let's go to the next candidate Hamed Mešanović. The vote begins. We've got 14 again for 1 abstention. Mr. Ivo Andrić. The vote begins. 14 for, 1 abstention. Mr Mustafa Ramić. Voting, you can vote. So we have 13 for, 1 for, 1 for, 1 for abstention. And so we have, here I skipped Nikola Antunović. The vote can begin. oforba's against it, the opposition's gone. 14 for, here as I've written down 1 he's been restrained. 11 So, I can conclude that for the members of the Commission they confirmed the following candidates: – Milomir Amović, Đoko Slijepčević, Hamed Mešanović, Nikola Antunović, Ivo Andrić, Mustafa Ramić and I find that candidate Muhamed Karamehmedović did not get the required number of votes, i.e. 4 votes he had for, 3 abstentions and 8 against. So, besides him, these candidates are all selected confirmed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission. I'm going to the next item of the agenda, which is Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission. The Commission has not reached an agreement in accordance with Rule 95.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The law is considered denied. The House of Representatives received a report of knowledge and concluded that the bill was rejected. Who's answering for a word? Here we have the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2930	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will not speak in the capacity of the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of our home, but in the capacity of a particular person for a rapporteur at this home compared to what she did to the Joint Commission. In fact, we have all received a report from the Joint Committee of both homes to reach an agreement in the same text on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence. You can see here that two sessions have been held. I must inform this house that members of the committee, members of the Coordination Commission Filipović, Mr Pamuk and Mr Radović at the second session of 21 May when this report was adopted did not take part in the work of the Joint Commission at all. So, we have now come to a situation of a very bad practice that members of the Joint Committee agreeing on the different texts of the laws of one home if they do not agree with each other consider it irrelevant to hold a joint session of the Commission or a committee of both homes to agree on the texts. It would be a very ugly practice if we went beyond that and I propose this home, therefore as rapporteur in agreement with my colleague Radović and my colleague Pamuk to refuse this report to report on this situation to the House of Representatives, regardless of what the House of Representatives has already accepted such a disabled report, I would also say that the session of the Joint Commission is requested to put out of force the adopted report, so if it is the same content, let at least agree on this report, or not agree, but the Joint Committee of both at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2931	I thank Mr Filipović. It'd be good if we did, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2932	I think the elaborate is quite clear. If there's anything to explain, repeat. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2933	It's okay. I've only done one small technical consultation with my colleagues and I suggest we vote on this bill. Are you answering your word? I can't see you. I apologize before the vote. I give my word to Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2934	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow delegates, gentlemen, I need to rely on what my colleague Filipović said, although he said everything. But this is scandalous that we have received and as a scandalous act, we have assessed this report on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and this is not about the formal invalidity of one act that we reject, but we reject principles, be careful – the commissions agree, in fact, the committee, the issue of agreement or not agreement of the commission, the issue of agreement between the committees of one and the other home, and not the un-insured consent of members of one commission from one or another home. So, before the statement itself, I want us to bear in mind that this is an incredible scandal with what they did at the House of Representatives where three committee members from that home concluded that there is no agreement. So that's what you have in mind and the House of Representatives gets, let's say valid information based on which they'll realize that they've been pleading for a scandalous act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2935	I can, I'll give the secretary my word here, here's my first word of course to my colleague Filipović, and then the secretary will get his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2936	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let's just remove one more doubt. So I personally here declare that I did not orally say anything that would lead to a decision like this without my presence at a session decided by my colleagues from the House of Representatives. And I got the information, so I can say it myself and Mr. Radović and Mr. Pamuk didn't give the mandate orally to decide this way. So we are not physically present at a session of the Joint Commission, and therefore this word is very difficult to use by the esteemed colleague Neimarlija, but it is indeed scandalous that we must safeguard the dignity of the joint committees, the dignity of the representatives of this home in the joint committees, and therefore I think that we must make a wise decision and reject this report as valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2937	I thank my colleague Filipović. None of the delegates. So Secretary Tomić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2938	I would like to point out one thing that the Rules of Procedure of our Article 95 states that if the Joint Commission has not reached a consensus it is considered rejected. Since these are some new circumstances, it would not be bad for the House to first adopt a conclusion amending this provision of the Rules of Procedure, on the 13th basis of Article 131, it has the right to conclude that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are amended and then to accept what Mr Filipović said.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2939	Here you go. I give my word to Mr. Pamuk, then Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2940	I can do this. This isn't about any consensus. It's just a matter of not being there. If we don't attend, then there's no consensus. What concentration? So it's been avoided here that members of the committee of our home are even present at that session, a physical presence, therefore. And then you can't talk about the consensus. Maybe I would agree, maybe I would, but you can't get along with what happens if you do. But that's what we're talking about. We didn't attend that session. And a joint session without a single home representative is not a joint session. It's a culinary story. Thank you. And what Jadranko says isn't it. So there wasn't a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2941	I thank my colleague Pamuk. Mr. Čengić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2942	So I must admit that I am a little surprised by Mr. Jadrank's proposal that I appreciate as a lawyer and as an experienced man in a parliamentary procedure. His proposal is absolutely unfounded, and therefore unacceptable. There's no need for us to conclude that we're changing the Rules of Procedure to work. So there's been a fact. There wasn't a session. The session exists if there are representatives of both homes. Since no session has been held, this Article 95 does not apply to this situation at all. So this really is scandalous. This is inadmissible scandalous and no longer compared to one home to another. This is inadmissible scandalous compared to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. Because the joint commissions and these ad hoc joint committees are the institutions and institutions of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, a number of members cannot make a decision that does not make a majority, especially in a situation where the Commission is working on a consensus principle. So not that there wasn't a consensus, there wasn't a session, there was no commission, and it had nothing to do with article 95, and there's no conclusion. So this is, look, this is cheating this is straight... this is falsifying facts. Well, I'm sorry, I mean, it's a falsifying fact. I sit down and write down what the commission thought. It can't be like that. Yeah, well, if it's a deal, I'm in charge of it. Until we agreed, until the session was held, it couldn't be at all. Look, I mean, I'm sorry, this is inadmissible. We now have an incredible situation. We just had information in which the sekretarijat is giving the House a lesson on how to read the newspaper text, instead of answering questions, and now we have a situation where a number of members of the Joint Commission are writing a conclusion on a committee meeting that has never been held. Therefore, what Mr Jadranko suggested should be rejected and accepted by Mr Filipović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2943	I thank my colleague, Čengić. 14 I do not see that there are any more reported and I suggest that we make a statement about Mr. Ilija Filipović's proposal, on the proposal for a conclusion. No, no, we're not adopting a report, of course, we're adopting a report. Is that what we're throwing away, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2944	We reject the report because the session has not been held.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2945	That's the bottom line. Please, I'm sorry. Please, Mr Filipović, for further clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I made it perfectly clear why I suggested that this House reject this statement as valid, in other words it should vote against this report. And once again to confirm, a session was held on April 21st. We then agreed all but one amendment and this amendment to the House of Representatives. And then on May 21st, the three of them sat down and said there was no agreement without us. So I suggest that here is from what you've heard that you reject this report and about these circumstances that we've heard here report to the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2947	We vote for Mr Filipović's proposal. Who is it to reject the Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's what I thought, but here's my colleagues. So who's for the report? I'm opening a vote. Yeah, for the report on who it is? I figure we got 13 against it, and the report hasn't been adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2949	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2950	Okay. Here's the deal. Well, in an explanation, it can stand. I suggest here, if you agree that in the explanation of this rejection of the report, this is what Mr Filipović said and that is enough. Okay. I thank my colleagues. 15 So we move to the next item of the agenda. That's Ad.5. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on taking a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both of us at home. The House of Representatives adopted a report at its 38th session on 9 June 2004. Who's for this report? I'm opening a vote. I figure it's 11 for you. This passed the law because it was adopted in the same text in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on accounting and audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed the Law by emergency procedure at its 39th session. I'm opening a debate. So, a colleague named Šiljegović came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2951	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say that he is a representative of the Republika Srpska Professor. Đurasović, led by Republika Srpska's accountant, participated in the adoption of this framework law, that all objections were adopted and... that the accountants of both entities requested the immediate adoption of this law and this is the position of the Serbian delegates' club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2952	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2953	I could only support this conclusion in front of the Croatian club means emissaries like Mr. Šiljegović said that it is a hasty adoption of this conclusion in order for the benefit of all of us to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2954	I thank my colleague Spajić. The Bošnjak will give their position by voting and. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure? I'm opening a vote. I figure 14 voted for it. Okay. 16 I am now opening a debate on the law. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one answered. Who is an emergency procedure for the adoption of the Accounting and Audit Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You can vote. I find unanimously that the law has been passed, all 15 delegates voted in favour. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. The Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Suspension of Suspension of the Application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered under this Article after the debate and the amendments shall not be submitted. At the 39th session of the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers proposed instead of an emergency procedure that the Law should be considered under a shortened procedure, which was accepted by the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Spasojević has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2955	So here's what I'm saying is if the House of Representatives has already discussed this half-emergency procedure, so that I in the free translation on the other hand, there's no reason that since we already have a House of Representatives conclusion that we're not discussing anything before the House of Representatives concludes, that is, to make decisions on some laws, I suggest that we also vote on Article 99, and that we leave the possibility that the House of Representatives should adopt, and then that we should only have time to adopt, too, that we do not violate our conclusions that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2956	Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2957	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, at the level of what my colleague Spasojević said, I respect that opinion, but I would still like to warn this occasion of certain deadlines. Namely, every year, for the second year already, we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on deferral from the execution of an application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina so in a certain way that we defend the liquidity of the budget and fight to meet international obligations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, on the other hand, we recognise the inability to repair the difficult economic situation in which we are and always re-evaluate that the claims are large on the basis of internal debt, but have not yet been finally established. Since the Council of Ministers asks us to adopt this bill by a hasty procedure, so in accordance with Article 100 of our Rules of Procedure, I will warn that certain deadlines and procedures themselves, I will also ask some questions that I may get answers to today and, of course, in that sense, I do not mind doing as our colleague Spasojević has suggested, but I would like to say the following. 17 The Law amending and supplementing the Law on deferral from the execution of an application on the basis of executive decisions on the burden of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of only Article 2, and its essence is expressed in Article 1 that the words, I quote, - no later than 31 March 2004, replace words no later than 30 June 2004. The text of this law was established by the Council of Ministers at its 47th session on 6 April 2004. My question is – why wasn't it done before March 31st, and does this mean that it started with the ambition of retroactive law enforcement? That's how I understand it. Today is June 29th, and the postponement of the claim under this law, if we adopt it today, is valid until tomorrow. Of course I wonder what's gonna happen the day after tomorrow. As I said, the Council of Ministers laid down the proposal for the law in question on 6 April, and only on 12 May after 36 days, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers forwarded it to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which received it on 14 May. I don't know what happened to this law and why it took 36 days to wait for it to be directed to us in parliamentary procedure. Of course, I personally accept the fact that we need to pass this law, and I personally don't mind bringing it in today, but if it prevails, the opinion that it should be done according to a shortened procedure means that we are breaking deadlines, and I am not far from making certain changes and supplementing and covering that up until 30.9., because it is evident that the big question is whether and until then we will have the appropriate legal solutions. Here is the Minister of Finance, he can give us some information that will regulate the way executive decisions are settled, which concerns old foreign exchange savings, war material and immaterial savings, claims created during the war and the war dangers and lagging remaining unsettled obligations of the user. I understand that the IMF and the World Bank are asking us to sort this out in a systematic manner, and it seems to me that these issues can be regulated in a certain way, especially if we get satisfactory answers from the present deputy, so Mr. Kumalić, that we can simply define ourselves. As far as I'm concerned, I'm here to do it today, unless we're determined to cover the next period, which would be very appropriate to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2958	I thank Mr Limov and I give my word to Deputy Minister Kumalić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2959	In order to avoid confusion here, the obligations of the state when it comes to the central budget are only 493 thousand and at the last Council of Ministers we have sent a bill of law to the House of Representatives and to the House of Peoples to establish those obligations, meaning in the amount of 493 thousand and the manner in which these obligations are settled. And what the gentleman mentions is old foreign exchange savings, war damage, it's in the jurisdiction of the entities, and they're in the entity assemblies to regulate these items of internal debt. So it would be desirable for the country to adopt this decision today. It's true that she's been in the process for a long time. However, as far as the state central budget is concerned, there is no danger of this internal debt. The date can remain 30.6. and can also be expanded. It wouldn't be too bad to pass it off. Let me just say the central budget commitments are to individual budget users. I haven't passed that law, I can't say it by heart, but mostly it's according to the Foreign Ministry, the Department of Trade. These are obligations on the lawsuits of individual MPs working in the ministry. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2960	I thank Mr. Kumalić. I give my words to Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2961	My colleagues, the chairman and my colleagues, I think it's wise to leave this deadline, to leave this procedure under article 99, we're not going to lose anything. Certainly this deadline is already running out tomorrow and I think it is wiser to have the opportunity to do it through parliamentary work, and also through the promoters to set amendments that will change this deadline when it may be 30.9., perhaps 30.12.2004, so I think it's smarter that it goes according to Article 99.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2962	I thank my colleague Spasojević. Since I do not see the application, I am voting on Mr Spasojević's proposal to consider this request, or the law under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the House of Representatives, yes, and here I am opening the vote. I figure it's 12. Yeah, I said it. Here we go again. So I'm opening a vote. I find that 12 for, 1 abstention and that this law will be considered by Article 99, as well as at the House of Representatives. And here's the College, in the meantime, consulted, and we're now going to announce a lunch break of an hour, up to two o'clock. We are continuing today's session here with a delay. [[PAUZA]] We've reached the eighth point of the agenda. At the very beginning, I would like to inform you that my colleague Radovanović will not attend the remainder of the session from justifiable colleagues. A fellow Pamuk will join us. He lost his glasses somewhere. So on the agenda is the eighth point of Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations No: 01,02-02-2-7-3/04 of 18.5.2004 In accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed the Law by emergency procedure at its 39th session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Nader Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2963	19 [[interrupts microphone - not understood exposure]]
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2964	Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2965	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs, I would like to inform the House of Peoples that the House of Representatives accepted and adopted the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act and we had the same theme when we were therefore considering this item of the agenda related to the position of the Board of Justice and the Management Board, and then the letter sent by the President of the Management Board to the House of Representatives challenged the responsibility of the Ministry, the responsibility of the Council of Ministers relating to the matter of customs policy. I didn't get that letter before, nor did I get it now. I had a chance to read him what it was about. I would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers Act, that the Ministry Act, direct jurisdiction over this matter, is in the Council of Ministers and in the Resort Ministry. The fact is that by accepting and adopting the Law on indirect taxation, we have come into one situation that we have to go through one phase that can be described as a child's disease, because in this law some articles have passed in a way that says that everything that is regulated by this law has a stronger power than any other law that has been passed in the earlier procedure, which is very questionable and reminds us of a time when these laws and were declared by the High Representative. These were the articles that were then characteristic of the proposed laws. I want to retaliate here with a very clear parallel between the level of ministers or the Council of Ministers and one, one administration. I think that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry is tasked with leading and creating a policy, if it is a committee, then we must be aware that the Council of Ministers does not have those instruments, that it is then clear in one position that it only has responsibility, and that responsibility is later, of course, implicated and transferred to Parliament. How long can we wait for a situation to be capacitated in that part that can begin to create, at least in this part that is very important to us when it means one and the other point 8 and point 9, because by applying the Free Trade Agreement we have come into a specific situation that we have to react in this way, and we have to propose some amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act that here I will take advantage of the opportunity to inform you that they are not really changing the rates themselves. So we don't touch the rates, we're introducing a new chapter 4 that's customs quotas and we approve of some contigents means for importing certain product groups. In this part of point 8, all of the SKD and the CKD valves, here I can take advantage of the opportunity to say about point 9. where we have also considered this point at the House of Representatives three times already at the House of Representatives, and we have managed to finally install in the third amendments which have come from the representatives regarding a more precise definition, provided that after three months we form both the Council of Ministers and Parliament on the effects of the measures implemented and proposed. I think that it is very correctly proposed by the Council of Ministers and in some ways we are looking for an opportunity for Parliament to provide us with this instrument in some way to lead and create a policy in this sector. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2966	I thank the Honorable Minister Doki. Now we have Mr. Lim's report. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2967	Dear President, dear colleagues, I have here four versions of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act from March 31st to this day. The practical month we got a new version and, of course, every time there was an emergency procedure to pass this law. The reason is that by passing such a law, it is intended to stimulate and increase domestic production. I, too, and I hope my colleagues have in my hand a letter from the Alliance for the Protection and Promotion of Peradarian, Animal Production and the production of Bosnia and Herzegovina's livestock food to the truth just today. I was going to say, so I was going to say that we don't normally have a chance to talk to us and people who aren't specifically from the executive authorities, or from the ministry, and I think that it would be good, and here I am pleading that in every particular occasion we get the opportunity to make a statement about it and make any other decision about allowing people to address us, because I personally appreciate that we can benefit only from it. However, I would like to say, in relation to what we have heard from the Honorable Minister Doka, that every time we pass these laws, we are told what the goal is and we are witnessing that it is usually time to show that we are not to the end or that we have not achieved that goal in the best possible way. Personally, I'm not even sure we'll be able to do it now. I have the truth about the will and certain conclusions of the distinguished representative Hasan Čengić, who in a certain way have their own foothold and in resolving the law itself. The fact is, therefore, and I would like to conclude that the measures we have been bringing in for years have actually brought about the destruction of our domestic production, especially in certain segments, and they are in general, whatever we think about and what we have been saying to traders in a certain sense, in terms of processors, but very rarely about direct producers, both in agriculture and in other segments, and I think we need to think carefully about one strategy that will give results in terms, not words, but really about the parts of strengthening our fallen production. I would like to remind myself that in the previous years there was a series of measures and there were talks in time about those imports for export purposes etc. and we know for ourselves that there are all the procedures as well as investigations of the relevant bodies that determine that, in fact, because of the mechanisms we have in terms of monitoring, controlling whether what we wanted to achieve as a goal was true and done, or actually it was a way that they were, and I would say certain voters overnight, or for a short time they existed as we say to the tycoon in Herzegovina, as a rule across the back of the citizens and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, there is no particular need to emphasise how important it is to take responsible measures that will enable what is in the context of these and these and all variations, all versions of these laws, and how the aim is to improve the development of domestic production. Personally, I'd like to fool myself, but here we are alive and seen in three months, as well as distinguished counterpart Čengić suggests when we do the analysis, we'll see the effects. So I appreciate that as far as I'm concerned, it's not going to be crucial, of course, but I really appreciate that with the reserve, we need to approach this way of solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2968	I thank my colleague Limov. Here I am, offered by my colleague Limov just to say something, so today we have received a letter from Mr Dikson, the chairman of the board of directors, and it has been delivered to all of you. We also received a letter from the Union for Protection and Promotion of the Peradian, Animal Industry requesting the address of one of the co-chairs. I thought that by introducing you to this letter and to the 21 texts of the address that it did not need to be spoken orally by one of the co-chairs. It means you're familiar with the word. We've heard of Mr. Secretary. Of course there are various arguments and here I give my word now to Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2969	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, media representatives, since we have here two laws with the same exact name, but they treat two different topics although it is the same procedure. I'm going to try to stay on the one, as far as I understand this point of the agenda that speaks more about the possibility of importing car production circuits. But I can't get around this fact that Mr. Dikson's letter has come up and we're talking about it today and now for a reason. First, of course, that we have all given support here to the institution, so the first adoption of a law on the need for institutions that will deal with indirect taxation and we want the Management Board of the institution to work in the best possible way at full capacity with its president. At the same time, it is very important that, before making these decisions, one good analysis of the situation and a good assessment of the consequences of one and the other on one side of what we get by abolishing customs duties, so in terms of budget inflow, and on the other hand, what we get if we promote production, if we promote employment, if we enable exports, etc. And in that sense, one principled approach of Mr. Dikson is certainly to greet. When it comes to this case, I have information that there are some things that are a little weird. I have been informed that Mr. Doko, who was present here neatly and in time informed the administration and the Management Board of the proposal for this law and requested their opinion and that the Management Board was manifested in a certain way and agreed to prepare a letter, tasked the President to prepare the letter, but that the letter should be further appointed by the Management Board before sending it. Apparently, this determination of the board of directors did not occur, and in fact there was no real comment, no real answer to the question, but there was a letter in which we are sort of teaching ourselves, including our home, all of us are teaching how to function in the state and who should do what. Respecting, supporting the work and wanting full success of the work, so the Directorate for indirect taxation with the Director, with the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, I think we know very well who needs to do what, and there is no doubt for us that the opinion of the Directorate for indirect taxation is important, but the opinion on this matter of the Council of Ministers is the last, before it comes to Parliament. And in that sense, whether the Council of Ministers had an answer, whether it had a satisfactory response, whether it agreed to a comment and a proposal or not, that's something on the Council of Ministers. We have laws here today, and I think we should decide the laws. I would just take this opportunity to ask members of the Council of Ministers on one side, as well as people who work at the Directorate for indirect taxation to cooperate and respect time. So if someone has 10 days to respond to a certain law that is not as high a complexity as it is written in the law itself, I think it would be normal to give an answer, to make a comment of whatever comment there is. And I think that, regardless of what we need today, we need to learn about this matter and make a decision, so as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to stay here today, namely in this current announcement, we'd only be on point eight, and I'll probably report to point 9, and that's briefly I think that we should support this law for a number of reasons. First of all, because we said a long time ago, and we all said loudly that we wanted to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a prosperous one, and go to the standard of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this is possible, primarily by foreign investment and the presence of those international companies that can bring valuable technological and technical 22 valuable programmes and projects that can ensure production here and thus raise the image of Bosnia and Herzegovina and our abilities. There is no dilemma that foltzvagen is one of such companies and it is not big, the folkvagen is not big in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is big everywhere in the world. One of the 3-4 largest car manufacturing companies in the world has long been present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which decided to return to Sarajevo after the war, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think we have certainly an interest in allowing those jobs that are now working and at the same time to ask the Council of Ministers, but also our businessmen in Bosnia and Herzegovina who know very well how to produce a number of parts that are being installed in these vehicles to look for a way into that space, so such a large system with the production of certain parts and to raise the level of participation of our domestic production in the final product. I have to be very clear, if we don't have anything to make here, it's not easy for us to get to it. If we have him here, if we already have him in our country, then it's easier to talk to him and negotiate with him. And in that sense, I think it is necessary to support this law, but to use this fact and the time this law gives to initiate a constructive conversation, a constructive dialogue to see what we on the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina should do further. If this is the elimination of customs duties on equipment that is additionally needed for our industry to produce spare parts according to the phosphagen standards to do so, and if further stimulation of our exports, etc. etc. That's what it takes. So I am in favour of producing coke and tomatoes and we're going to talk about it already in the next item of the agenda, but I'm even more willing to get involved in high-tech. The production of such skilled cars as folsvagen is definitely something that is worth it. Finally, Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the countries that has respectable capabilities in the machinery industry and the production of metal parts. And I think that through this we must therefore, this should be treated as one palitative measure, and in the meantime use it to find a system solution that will allow for the benefit of the presence of folsvagen in Bosnia, and let's say more likely more developed countries than Bosnia and Herzegovina from our environment and others do not have the satisfaction of using and turning it into permanent and much wider co-operation in terms of production for the folklore and through that system to enter into this product-supply system for most of the world. In that sense, I think that we should support this proposal for the Council of Ministers law and I say again to make sure that in the future we really have quality analyses based on which we can identify ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2970	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The word is Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2971	My esteemed colleagues, here's what I'm going to say about this point. So this one and this next point. It means the 8th and 9th points concerning the amendment and addition of the Customs Tariff Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think the basic problem is, so the basic problem is that there is no one consistent policy, there is no systematic solution, but we respond from demand to demand, from need to need. I don't think that's good. It just shows that we don’t really have a strategy, and we don’t have anything less or less of a plan for someone, not far away, but even closer to the future. Recently, I was able to attend a delegation to visit several major companies in West Germany, including folklore where people said the underlying problems were very much related to this problem. So it's a lack of a system solution. They're afraid and they don't believe that we're going to do it in time, or what's the question is what's on time, if it's not already solved, it means they're going into suspense, if they're going to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And they said that one of their main objections is that there is no systemic solution, a solution for some 23 long time where they can be sure that they will not change legal solutions or conditions for some long time. Furthermore, I also feel that the law is not sufficiently reasoned with any aspect. First of all, it's about trade, about benefits, and they don't show the size of the benefits they're worth, which they carry to themselves, except they don't invest in the budget of the owner, entity or state. What are the other positive economic effects? I think it would all be necessary in an explanation of these proposals and the texts of the law. Furthermore, here's the law that's going to be behind this law, so, the problem is very similar only the area is something different. It's about the food industry in primary agricultural production because it conditiones one another, and the situation is even worse. So we don't have a plan, we don't have a primary agricultural production development programme, we don't have a food industry, we don't have one established development policy in this area. And so I'm going to repeat, we're making these solutions to the demands of a particular company at one time, at one point, etc., I'm going to repeat again without writing down what the effects are. So what is the value of the benefits and what are the specific economic effects through employment, through production, through the created new value after what is imported is enriched whether it is done, processed etc. etc. And that's why I think it's for me, it's my basic observations, and the details I don't know if it makes any sense at all and actually speak. Here, I don't think this is a good way and that the Council of Ministers should be more responsible in implementing its outlined policy and work programme, especially in these areas. And otherwise, I believe that customs policy must be designed in a completely different way in a way to take care of the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic operators about the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population, not Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, and here we are in a situation to discuss the conflict between Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. Because this letter from the board of directors, we can ignore it, but we're wrong, that's a serious thing, we mean as part of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this home, before I know exactly how long, I won't say how long I shouldn't be wrong, we passed that law that clearly said in one of his provisions that the policy of indirect taxation therefore also runs the Customs Board. I will then visit you esteemed colleagues that I then responded to such a provision because it is not normal, it is not logical. The policy is being guided and determined by someone else from the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, and is being carried out by another body, such as the Management Board, I don't know, the Administration, etc. etc. However, that is what we have established, and we have adopted such a law. And it's not good to pass a law contrary to the law that we've already adopted as much as it mentions in that law that it has, that it means it's more important, and that it applies if it comes to conflict by chance if it compares this situation, it seems to me that they are in conflict with another law. Otherwise, it's not a good practice. Our colleagues in the House of Representatives have adopted the text proposed by these laws, but I, that doesn't mean for me that they were right and that we have to do the same. And that's why I think this time, here we'll probably do it the way we suggested. But I'm not convinced that we're doing well and right from here, but I've already told you which reasons, and I'd like to say that in the future we don't talk about this in this way, not on request, etc. but to solve it in one systematic way, to know from now on in a year, two, three, or I don't know for how many days what the conditions are, what can be done and under what conditions someone really serious can study this legislation and then build their own interest here on it, see if there's logic, whether there's business logic, whether it makes sense and ultimately needs to invest in this space, in any dam, now it doesn't even matter. Here I felt so much needed to say and I hope that with this practice as soon as possible, because this is not a good way to work. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2972	I thank my colleague Jukić. Mr. Spasojević came forward for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2973	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, listening to Mr. Čengić and Mr. Jukić, I strongly support them, as well as I at the same size as they have talked about, I feel that what we have today has some contradictions and some contradictions, and at this point, we don't know who's running the policy in this country right now, so we're getting letters from one side like this, we're getting a proposal from the Minister's Council, so bring this to us, and as far as the 8th and 9th points are concerned, let's understand the 8th points, and that I understand that we're talking about importing cars, or here they're broken down as parts for cars, and I think that since we don't have a car industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can say in some way that it's very important for us to employ our people and to have the capacity to really benefit when we look on one side. When the other sides look at me, collecting a little bit I saw it here's the quota that needs to be imported that's 28,000 cars. It's a huge number if only a little calculation as far as the customs rate is concerned, I read it myself, and I understand something a little bit, I read, says by passing these amendments to the law, it won't significantly reduce the budget from the customs revenues around 2%. This when you read 2% I'd say so what's 2%, it's nothing. But this is from the total customs revenues at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2%, it's a huge sum. It's a huge amount of money, and when you look at the pages of the relationship, you start to trust someone. I guess someone figured out how to do it. I also agree with my colleague Jukić, and I think that this is a key problem, that we should not go from trouble to trouble from putting out the fire on one side to the other, etc. We're supposed to be bringing in a comprehensive overall policy and going with policy in some way or some steps, so this is how whoever needs it makes a request and gives us.....the interruption of the relationship...... Now, in their explanation, they're telling us it's good for this situation right now. However, this should be seen comprehensively, and I think what Mr. Jukić said is that I do not repeat that it is important that it be one budget, or one, one development plan at least for the next two, three years, if not more. So as far as this is concerned, as far as the car is concerned, I would support this today as far as it goes, because I think people are going to get a job and they're going to start doing some production, and I know well that without production there's nothing, and if there's no production we're sitting in vain, there's no progress here, and that's why I'm going to vote on this car thing. And as for this 9th point, it's a bit more agile because we have both beef and pork and livestock, these livestock farmers, the presidents of these associations say somewhere, and how much we have that frozen livestock meat, and it's not used. And here I also read it says that, by passing this amendment of the law, it will not significantly reduce budget and customs revenues around 1%.......the bond is broken. It probably won't go down as far as financial resources are concerned, but it'll have a negative impact on our producers. We should first as a state to buy out everything we have of ours, so that we can make it a condition to be, if these want to buy out everything that ours has and then import what's missing, so that this decision in my opinion is a little bit more disputable than this first one, because there's really no competition in this first one so that I don't even know about this second decision with myself to vote. Probably because of the manufacturer's lack, we don't have enough production capacity for people who have larger industrial factories to produce meat processing, and probably for that reason we should give it to them, but I also support Mr. Jukić that should mean the plan, this year we'll introduce so much, so much, we'll buy it, we'll give stimulation to our products. 25 Such an approach should be so that as far as this other person is concerned, I am not yet in a clear opinion of what to do, how to vote, and I will support this first one, because I really need to support it. In my opinion, everything about production in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be supported and large capacities and investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be supported because only by production can we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2974	I thank my colleague Spasojević. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2975	I'd like to be as brief as possible, but I'm not sure, in fact, I share the opinions of my colleagues who discussed this point before me. I believe that this is actually the point where the debate has shown that there are topics for us that are not party and in whose debate we are really coming out of these some kind of party frameworks of access to these issues and we're asking them I would say in a really relevant way and that was exactly the reason to report it, because it seems to me that we have found ourselves in a place where we can help ourselves to identify ourselves more precisely or better, and for other less important things. Namely, she has very imploded me indeed, and I fully support this discussion by my colleague Jukić on the importance of the issue, but also on the importance of our leadership, in fact, the importance of our response to this particular question that we are faced with, legally in terms of, of course, the Council of Minsitare's proposal to react legally, but at the same time not to harm some legal principle of our work, or the requirement that we be in our work as consistently as possible to make things more consistent. However, this is not simply about a particular problem that ad hoc can be solved, but about an example of a car industry that can have exceptional meaning, I would say, for our positions in other areas. We're all interested in domestic production. We're all interested in domestic resources. One of the resources that we don't have very often to discuss law-making is respecting the home experience of our own mind. One is the production of sawdust that I fully respect and the assumptions for the production of sawdust, the other is the production of cars, or the production of car parts. It's no problem if we disable, say, the rejection of this law, etc. The work of this tomorrow, these folsvagens down the factory where those parts were mounted, not that it was no problem, but I just came out led by a data that I had not so long ago come to think that Slovakia in a few years managed to develop this car industry with the production of cars and from these German companies, among other things, the folklore that already has 12 annual productions that we had until the '90s only. in the installation of folcvagen vehicles. So the folcvagen isn't strictly interested in having these vehicles installed at our place. He'll find others. They will find Czechoslovakia or Slovakia's premises and we are interested in production in all forms, but if we lose at this moment and again at some point this step we lose, let's say, this volcvagen, the question is whether we will arrive more and whether we will arrive at these productions for which we have experience in all, in all of these interruptions that have happened to experience that if we don't continuously restore them will not matter to us, and they are one of the most significant or most important resources. I would like to remind you that it is a very important production in our country is now being realized for these parts of the automotive industry thanks to the knowledge we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a branch of industry that has a tradition of many centuries in us. That knowledge is crucial to people. I think we make shoes 2 stamps on average more expensive than in Moldova or Romania because we have more quality experience and better quality knowledge than those people there. But it won't take long, and for this reason I got up to say, calling on us to keep in mind the need to preserve not only production, but the continuity and development of these knowledge that will not be worth it to us tomorrow if we don't react in this way. And this 26 case seems to me to be characteristic of other areas where we can easily act either irresponsiblely or underresponsibly to our knowledge. And colleague Čengić was really right, we are obliged to maximum respect for, say, our experiences from the machinery industry. So far we haven't seemed to be able to say it to ourselves and make ourselves aware that no one has the right to play in this country anymore, to put aside everything that was, with these terrible knowledge, because much more than those plants we have, much more than all that was worth the knowledge and experience we still have, but that won't last, which if they break up, they're done. For this reason, respecting indeed these requirements of fellow Jukić for consistent establishment and these laws that respond to the interruption of the commitment to a systematic resolution of the framework and calling on the Council of Ministers to take that into account. On my part, I believe that today we should support this by considering and our need to respect, of course.....the bond of interruption...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2976	I thank my colleague Neimarlija. Now I give my word to my colleague Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2977	Thank you very much. I'm going to say a few sentences about this law and express my support for this law to this first undercar parts, but from the position of the man who worked in this system before the war in this combination that was involved in the production of cars and who had an extremely important, extremely important relationship with folsvagen and was one of the important production plants of folsvagen in Europe. Sarajevo's TAS has been since '88. The year had a sale in Yugoslavia and Europe of something like 200 million dollars in cars. Total traffic, total exports of UNIS at that point, was about 630 million dollars. Those were impressive figures, and that was very important. Thanks to one good policy-making Sarajevo-based UNIS, almost 90% of imports of clutches, what we call what we call in that industry are clutches, paid off export spare parts for folcvagen. These were in a certain way barter arrangements, they were jobs of such a kind and that part was mostly, of that import, was mostly so closed. In Bosnia and Herzegovina we developed extremely good capacities to produce parts of the folklore and we had one top-notch, we had, say, the best batteries in the world in time. It was this Tesla battery. We had some other things that were undefeated in Europe and among the best in the world. What happened happened, some factories stayed and survived, should be put in motion. In order to be, in order for your products to wait for a very long period of humagulation as it is said, to be accepted by folklore to come into a position to connect our metrotrerad with large systems and work for large systems, you must be able to quality and in large series to produce what you need phosphagen and you are always in each product in each component you are only one of three, among three. Therefore, each foltzvagen product has three producers in different places in Europe so that none of the producers in the foltzvagen can be a monopoliest and blackmail a large system. To accept you in this game you have to be a significant partner, so you have to be a significant partner of folkvagen and hence this number of 28 thousand cars that would be made in the area, so many clutches, so many spare parts that you can make 28 out of them, I think it'll be 25,000 and so, but now the folkvagen in the corners gives up part of your market that you can go slowly with your production on that market and sell your cars because it's quite clear that every year in Bosnia you can't sell 28 thousand cars. So it goes into export. When we talk about the position of what it is that we lose in the customs budget, there are some losses, but if we do it now with what we get, if Rudi Čajevac starts to do small electric motors for foltzvagen what he did, if he starts to do what he did to us, if we start doing what they did to us in Rogatica, we get into a situation that we'll work through that part of the job, I think cca 10-15 thousand people and have, and we have a 21 guaranteed placement of those products to a big world corporation. It's very hard to get in a position to accept you as one of the world's five largest cooperative corporations, for a co-worker, for someone. That's sorry, that's a hell of a pain in the ass, that's hard to achieve. And the other thing, for us as Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to make every effort with the Federal Republic of Germany to come into a quality business relationship, to have the opportunity to bond with them, to get new types, to get new technologies, because what we have now, I have to admit, I'm a little in progress, that's all for old folk types. We started an audience here to make something up, but unfortunately, we don't have any parts for that audience. So we have to take everything. Now we have to fight that the folklore gives us opportunities to enter new projects, new programs into new parts and defacto to start developing that. Where the automotive industry was developed, there was developed and metritreraded. There's no metal processing without the automotive industry. We have decent luck, we have capacities here now as far as I see Željezara Zenica switching to quality steel, whether it's a new line, new production. So we're going to have quality spare parts from Zenica Zenica, as things stand now, and we're going to have quality steel. That's what an engineer called a utopia called...and so on. steel and we'll be able to do quality spare parts. So we have a source, we have, if we have a automotive industry, we have the opportunity to develop metrometerwork and we have a chance to move on. I don't think at this point he's even supposed to be questioning this law at all. But by saying what my colleague Jukić said, I will propose from here on a suggestion to the Council of Ministers that what we were wrong about in this law that we gave to someone above the Council of Ministers, because objectively it is not realistic, it is possible, we made a mistake, and I ask you to take a good look at it, look for changes and additions to that law and return it to a normal position so we don't have letters like this, because we gave this man the right to write to us as it says. It's not his fault either. If someone is guilty, it's our fault, we need to understand that it is, but because it's our fault we shouldn't bring workers to Bosnia and Herzegovina to lose hope, we should give them hope of going to this production. By the way, the ASA car currently working on the realisation of these car programs is currently the third exporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So they're doing a lot of work, and now they're doing a lot of foltzvagen, they're doing those seats, they're doing a lot of work in this prevention, they're doing a lot of work from Jelah, they're doing as far as I know, and I think they're trying to rebuild that little Čajevac, those wipers, the wipers, the wipers, and they're probably going to bring it back to life. And I would therefore ask you here now in the interest of this let's project development of the metro-recreation in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we adopt this law and simply give people the opportunity to do their job properly and honestly and to employ as many people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2978	I thank my colleague Pamuk for this most inspired address to Parliament. I don't think he left anyone in the dilemma here, that he convinced everyone. Please. Well, since I don't see any more registered debaters, I would now open a vote on who is for this law to be considered under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'm opening a vote. Are we gonna do it again? I have a feeling it's not good on display. So I repeat, so when I repeat the vote for 10 seconds we have time to decide. 28 So I'm opening the vote. Now you have eight seconds left. 13 votes for, 1 abstention, how two, one. There's one missing. So 13 for 1 abstention. Okay. Now I'm opening a debate on the law. I think there was also talk about the law itself under this previous matter of procedure. Is anyone answering for the law alone right now? It's exhausted so it's in the previous one. I don't see anyone answering. Then we'll vote on the law now. So I'm opening a vote. I find that, unanimously with 14 votes, this law has been passed. I thank my fellow delegates for their exhaustive discussions, and I believe that we have elaborated a good part from the next point on the agenda. That's Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations No 01,02-02-2-704 of 9.6.2004 in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House decided on a request for the law to be considered under this article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed the law by emergency procedure. As this item of the agenda refers to this letter of the Alliance for the Protection and Promotion of Peradarian and Animal Production of Cattle Food signed by one of the co-chairing alliances, he asked for an address to this parliament. I believe, I repeat once again that, in the light of his written form, he delivered his address that was neatly given to you in time for no need to signify his oral address, so here you are. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Hasan Čengić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2979	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, remain present, it would be my turn to start my discussion with what my colleague Jukić started, this discussion, and this is about this law, which is why I do not know what time we are responding to certain questions and that the question is actually whether we have system solutions? We have the next situation as I understand it in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is likely that for this hour we have too much capacity in the processing of meat as we had and as we have as much capacity in producing certain types of meat as chicken, and at the same time we fail to produce enough quantities. That we call on the Council of Ministers for why it didn't work in time, why it didn't think, why the Council of Ministers in the same year twice suggested Malta not the same measure. At the beginning of this year we brought something like this and now it would make sense again, but there's another side of the medal. If we find out that there is no state law on agriculture in this country today, then I simply don't know who to criticise. I don't have an address. If there was a law, then I'd know by law who's responsible. This is how it turns out no one's responsible. If we look at the situation in agriculture, we produce potatoes, I don't know 80% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's needs, and the rest of the agricultural products from 35-29 40%. If we look at the situation, you can't say that the existing capacity doesn't have to work reprocessingly. It's supposed to work. On the other hand, you can't say that it's justified that this year twice those who have launched the peradar production, the production of chicken meat can burn and burn chicken for a few days and no one can do anything. It's very serious stuff. All in all this very short-sighted stuff, I think the conclusion is very simple. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have neither a coherent policy, nor a coherent vision, nor a strategy, nor a real commitment to what we want. A brief start to the story, it is likely that a strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's agricultural development must be adopted as to why there is a basis. I have again consulted that strategy this morning, the medium-term development strategy for the next three years, read all of the 10 pages there about agriculture, and I have to say that there are good elements there. However, it is necessary to go the next step, write down a little more precisely what it is in this country, at which level we want and at what level we want. There is no dilemma that we have an interest in producing meat in the amount that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to reduce imports. People are inadmissible, there are historical records that at the time of Austro-Hungarian space, a million sheep's throats were produced, produced or held. Count it today, if it's 15-20 grand. So what's this about? In a number of things today it's easier to keep it, than veterinary services than communication than all of that. So, well killed in the war, killed after the war, but we have other problems. We have no incentive, we have no stimulation, we have no quality loans, we have no single standards, we have no education centres, we have no market, we have lost our domestic market, we have non-competitive pressure, we have pressure unregistered on customs, we have entered with the incentives of the dawn with European community stimulations that we cannot bear, etc. In short, this law, as it is imagined, has given to those processors who have an interest in importing by customs 0, so no customs duties and that they produce. Today it's very interesting for them. But they know better than I do, I still want to remind you colleagues that the moment we arrive at the situation of importing meat or raw meat from the European community that was already stimulated there, which was subsidized there. We can no longer sell such meat from Bosnia because it is forbidden to introduce from this country something that is stimulated from within the European community. So on a short path, we can get raw materials, process it here and sell it here. On the long run the capacities we have are small for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's market is little for these capacities. If these facilities can't find a market outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, they're already doomed today. This law is a palitative measure. Customs policy in my opinion is something that needs a day to react to a condition like in some kind of disease. It's got a little bit of temperature, so it's a little bit bigger, so it's added, it's taken away. At this time, the Council of Ministers decided, after the analysis, to go with this measure. It is needed to meet the needs of the processing industry. It is needed to satisfy part of the domestic market and it is dangerous for a low level of expensive, still expensive production in Bosnia and Herzegovina and these are real facts. What do we do? If we have a situation that this year in both entities the incentives for agriculture gentlemen do not cross 40 million marks, for this year they do not cross 40 million marks, from Mr. Zoran and beyond, we all know that this is a funny little, negligible little for real incentive. And number, just count what is to come, from milk, from meat, from poultry, from honey, from this, from that. So these are huge needs. We haven't solved the issue by introducing customs and making up for it. We didn't. But we haven't even solved the issue of abolishing customs duties, even in such a ransom in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because our production is more expensive than foreign imports at this time. So we have to work on the system measures. Only the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Affairs cannot resolve this, but the Council of Ministers must take steps to co-operate with the entity government. We need to find and know where there are insurance reserves for stimulating resources in agriculture from better resistance to tobacco and tobacco products to up to about 30 other high-tariff goods. And it is finally not unknown that in this situation the privilege, therefore by law, of this as provided for the benefit of importing non-tariff raw materials can be provided by one who purchases a domestic product, and it is also not unknown that this domestic trader or domestic processor will be able to print his own paper that he bought the non-existent. Don't be angry. Here's an example. A normal chicken meat production tour is 45 days. We have first control after three months, so that means two whole tours can pass within three months. Who can control me today if I've produced in my farm 3,000 or 10,000 chickens, just a little bit and who can control me if I make a invoice that I've produced 10 grand, and I've produced 3 and added that invoice to my other company that processes that it's based on its company's invoice on 10,000 chickens or 10 thousand kilos of imported the next 30,000 suns. It's business, it's done and it's going to work. How do you protect yourself from that? It's on one side. So this is what I'd say, short-term fraud. In the long run how to solve the problem? The more we import raw materials from the outside without customs, the more we import to buy domestic goods. The less you buy your homework today, the less produced tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, we'll have no more production, and we're in a vicious circle. If I'm looking at the divorce page, that's it. A domestic production that is threatened against this law itself. If we look at this other side in the interest of production in existing processing facilities, then I'm in favour of the law. If I'm looking at the state interest to lose out of the budget because there are no customs duties, then I'm against customs. If I look at the interest of this being one transitional phase that will strengthen domestic production, because the domestic processor commits to buying the crumb first to secure the elements for importing the other without customs duty, then I'm up to it. I guess I'm always in the middle of it. I didn't. I'll be very clear. The law without very serious and very systematic day-to-day control is a disaster and opens up a space for inconceivable consequences, negative consequences for both domestic production and domestic budgets. The law with quality control and clear control measures is something that can enable domestic purchases and ensure production on a short path. What's particularly dangerous is that whoever buys everywhere, so who buys repromaterials, or raw materials without customs, is now going to start blackmailing a domestic producer to sell to him at a price corresponding to the processor, so they're going to kill him with a price. It's in my opinion of the great disadvantages, or the lack of this law, Mr. Minister, because we don't have the means to encourage in that production that would satisfy us, and at the same time we're opening room for this second thing that I'm talking about. For all these reasons, for all these reasons, I think that if we were to vote for the law, I think it would be necessary for us to make a statement about this proposal for conclusions that have two objectives, one would be on a long track to find systemic solutions through the strategy and the adoption of state law, and in the short run ensure quality control of the implementation of this law. I believe that you have received all these proposals of conclusions and the first is actually a request that the Council of Ministers, within the time limit provided for by the conclusions this House has adopted, adopt a strategy and propose a strategy for agricultural development. You didn't get this maybe. Here, let me read the proposal for conclusion number one. Mr Zoran is not, therefore, concerned that the Council of Ministers should indeed, within a deadline that has already been defined, make a strategy for the agricultural ruse at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, prepare and propose to the Parliamentary Assembly of the State Law on Agriculture and set up a Department for Agriculture at the Ministry of Foreign Trade. That's what system measures are. If we don't do this, gentlemen, by the end of this year, I'm telling you, this is going to go into a stenogram and it's going to be recorded, so I'm telling you that as soon as this quantity of goods is spent, we're going to be passing a new law with larger quantities that will finally beat us in terms of domestic production. Second, it is important to determine the points where chicken meat can be harvested. So you know exactly what technology it is. It is known who rules the technology in Bosnia and Herzegovina and determine the current 31 state of supply. There's a legitimate explanation that this law washes history. What does that mean? That there are already imported quantities of meat frozen that are only waiting for this law to be defrosted and that what happened several months ago is now being nominated, or legalized, under quotes. If that's it, then we're doing an ugly job. I want to believe we're not doing this. I therefore believe that, before this law enters into force, the Council of Ministers with competent institutions in entities should therefore establish the correct list of domestic machine-exhausted meat producers and the quantity they can provide. It is therefore necessary to establish the exact needs of the carnivorous processor with the tax-based domestic production plants that will exercise the right to import. Three. It is up to the Council of Ministers with the Department of Direct Taxation and the Veterinary Office to monitor the application of this law daily and to ensure control measures, its implementation in all segments. Four. It is up to the Council of Ministers to report each three months until the end of the application of this law to the House of Nations on the application and the results of that application. And the last. It is up to the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of this House to carry out an analysis of the impact of this law on domestic production and processing on the basis of the first quarterly report by the Council of Ministers and to propose to the House and the Parliamentary Assembly certain measures of activity. If we adopt this and implement this law not only to be justified, it would probably give positive effects. If we don't, then by this law we cut the last branch on which we sit, that limited domestic production will be destroyed by the end. But we need the other way around. By 2007, to strengthen production so that we can cope with the even greater competition that comes through the VTO contract, which comes through the expiry of these various bilateral agreements, etc. Finally, I suggest we agree before the vote on whether we accept the conclusions. I think it's necessary that we accept them. They are against no one, providing the position of the state and providing both processors and producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2980	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The gap and dilemma he spoke of about and against could soon only be overcome by fellow Spasojević, who in one home could vote in favour of the other. I give you my word Mr. Doko has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished representatives, the objectives of the proposed amendments and the addition of these laws are precisely to encourage domestic agricultural production and we should never have been warned that these measures and these changes are being used for smuggling, malversions to obtain unwarranted profits and I think that in that part, the Ministry and the Council of Ministers are liable. By accepting this law, you've only opened up the possibility of us acting. There's a lot of responsibility on us along with right now. Of course, we do not want to separate this cooperation with the Department for indirect taxation, because the administration's competences are mostly in the implementation of these regulations. I think that the Office of Veterinary as an integral part of the Ministry of Foreign Trade will certainly take part and related to these suggestions I did not go into details, we did not explain, of course we were thinking about everything we will face when it comes to a particularly chicken program and we had 32 during consent with a working group in which you were also representatives of producers, I must also mention it so. We have the truth and more of those associations. We worked with those who came to us. We couldn't choose too much who would talk to them, so I think we chose, didn't choose, apologized, accepted talks with representatives of associations that, in some ways, have the largest number and producer of chicken meat, pork and beef. The fact is that meat processing industry uses only parts of these animals as raw materials. So when it comes to pig meat, or beef, or chicken, it's just one part. The chicken is specifically about about about 7% of the chickens, the back that are being exploited, and then it's almost an even smaller percentage. When it comes to this measure to encourage domestic production, no one can introduce mon it means this frozen booth and say it's production. So the trader can't use this privilege. In order for the processor to import at privileged rates, he must first buy and pay and pay, and can do so only from whoever produces, who has the capacity, who has moved 15,000 chickens and gets a pound and a half of that amount of meat, that is so much and so much tax to have only 5% of it for mine. That's the product he can have. He can't have more than that. You can't show up with someone with an enormous amount right now. We'll follow that every day, because we'll issue the permits. If someone shows up now with 500 tons of approval, then we know something's wrong. We're not gonna give him that approval. I mean, great responsibility lies with the ministry. We are aware that the practical realization of these measures can show that we have done something good for the primary agricultural production, and we can also enter the risk of opening space to the traffickers. We'll try not to cut that space down, not to leave it at all. So only those who are producers who have grown up in a slaughterhouse and a meat-experienced machine can be those from whom the product will be purchased. No traders, no other companies can benefit. When it comes to quantities. They are limited in one simple way by ransom. And here's the most important ransom. You side by side will increase the interest of the processor to buy from the manufacturer. What that means on the market is very simple, it's going to increase prices so that it's a direct incentive for just the primary producers, the most direct. Because without buying these products, they can't exercise the right. There is a very simple increase in demand for primary products and thus a more favourable position for primary agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2982	I thank Mr. Secretary. Mr. Radović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2983	We return again means at the request of the Council of Ministers that the Law amending and supplementing customs tariffs is settled in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples means an emergency procedure without the right of amendment. Like this one, as discussed by my colleagues, I agree and I think we have to trust someone, regardless of what we lack in the long-term strategy for the development of agriculture. Especially primary production. Normal and processing production in agriculture. This is about meat production and processing, and I think we have to do this Council of Ministers, and I think the Council of Ministers intended to put the primary agricultural production through this measure of customs release. This intention is seen from the very legal text to say that after 1/3 of the quota, or three months, an analysis will be carried out, and I think that the Parliamentary Assembly should be particularly interested in this to insist on a clear analysis that will give real effects and the real results of this application. I think this is one of the necessary effects, but it's not enough. If we take just how much the EU, which makes up mainly highly developed industrial countries, pays attention to agriculture and how much it has allocated from its budget for the development and protection of agriculture and how sensitive and rigorous it is to the monitoring and approximation of the quotas of individual Member States, i.e. individual agricultural branches, as 33 are deployed, I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina should also carefully approach the strategy for the development of agricultural production. This is one of the chances, if we said we had one resource called smart in the machinery industry and we can't drop it because we're going to go biologically, we also have one economic, or resource that we can deal with exceptional, quality agricultural production, especially primary food production that has a safe market on the world market. But where are the problems? The first thing we've seen is we've got a lot of problems because we're not competitive. Our primary agricultural production cannot withstand competition, which is why it needs state aid. We've seen through all of these projects that come to develop agriculture that there are loans that we get from 0.7 plus libro donations, and over, when they're placed across banks, we analyzed at one of the sessions that that's 9% which is unbearable for agriculture. Therefore, the Council of Ministers must start by stimulating, lending to the Veterinary Office which must also be very important in this operation, because it raises the question of what quality this meat will enter, because we feed our people with these redesigns that will enter and the question of quality and our ability to implement it. It also raises a serious question whether we are ready and able to treat all these laws, especially the Law on indirect taxation, how and how to prevent what has happened and what can happen at the heart of primary agricultural production. I agree that at this point, they are not competitive and should be left with space, which is why the state needs other revenues through... and taxing others to help primary agricultural production. I also agree that it is necessary to support this level of processing industry that requires to employ capacities, in order to be competitive, it must demand that they employ that capacity. So she needs raw material. And that's positive when we import raw materials. But we need to keep it under control in terms of quality, quantity and function in the development of primary agricultural production. And that's why I'm pushing for this law to be adopted under Article 100 to be accepted without any changes, but to say that we're going to give us the effects of this law exactly that date, or the first third of the quotas when it is used for 3 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2984	I thank my colleague, Radović. Was that your proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2986	Please write it down or you'll repeat it later. Next came Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2987	Thank you, Mr. President. The device was noted in my first announcement on the previous agenda point that I was actually talking about this, but I also assumed that I would have a different opinion from our chairman on this address because it could have happened differently, and then we would have time for this Professor Abdulah Gagić to address it today. From all that we've heard, and of course by respecting what my colleagues have said before, and even for a good part what the minister said, I want to say this, that I'm not aware of the argument that was made in this letter, but also the possible other argument that this is the right solution and I personally think that we can go by a different approach here, so here we go by the carpets which is one model. It may also be a model to buy out all the production previously, especially all the ones that exist through inspections, to take a good look at what the esteemed colleague Čengić was talking about so that 34 would not now have to do with the washing of these goods, as some mention 3 thousand tons. Well, we've seen for ourselves that there are spectacular activities surrounding the distribution of free chickens, etc. And I think it can be a different approach. So I'm not sure this will contribute to the development of our domestic agricultural production and otherwise I think that he was on the right track as counterpart Jukić spoke about the systematic resolution of this issue. Finally, the fact that we do not have the Ministry of Agriculture at the state level speaks enough of what we actually think of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone's gonna say we have in entities, etc., but that's not it. Here is a colleague Radović talking about a strategy that must still have a state character. In the end, however we set it up, we're going to get to this position, this situation that we're going to have to have certain control mechanisms from the state level, so I just don't have the will to talk about the content of this argument, because here you have all had the opportunity to read it, and it's probably not going to affect it, but unlike the previous point where I didn't normally have a dilemma, where I'm voting for support here, I mean really different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2988	I thank my colleague Limov. Next came Mr Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2989	....we all pointed out one need to develop primary agricultural production, but in addition to being an imperative for maintaining the Bosnian Herzegovina population, I think, on the one hand, we have one great need, one of our strong desire to move towards European integration, to regulate the laws as it should, as all the others in Europe have arranged. I think that this, this situation around agriculture, about the state of agriculture that it's been difficult and it's been going on for a long, terribly long time. Those big strikes, those big needs. I know when we enter Europe that we will have to report the exact number of cows, how many orchards we have, how many goats we have, how many chickens we have, how much per person we have, because that's what every European country has done, that's how they plan, that's how the budgets of all European countries are planned, that's how subsidies are planned, and that's how agriculture develops. However, I'm prepared, perhaps I'll surprise you a little bit that here in front of this house I suggest we launch an initiative. It is our right, together with the Council of Ministers, with the international community and all other institutions, that it is high time for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get the agriculture ministry. It's very important to me, because I think that in this area, like no other, we need to get close to Europe, make investment, make one system and make one order. I think we need to coordinate this very seriously with the entities and I think that simply from that level, from the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Europe, we need to lead it, we need to run that system and we need to slowly introduce it. That would be my suggestion. It doesn't have to be accepted, but this is just one of mine, one initiative we should think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2990	Thank you, fellow Pamuk. The word came from Mr. Nada Radović. Something's wrong again, I apologize to Zoran Spasojević. You're not Osmane reported. You're gone. Come on, press it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about these issues earlier, but I only want two three things while Mr. Minister is here to ask him and not repeat this that we need 35 long-term strategies, systemic measures, guaranteed ransom, incentive measures, day-to-day control, what Mr. Čengić was saying. I just want that, probably, we will come up with this to support the Council of Ministers in this proposal, because we have to start from something, we have to start, as Mr. Radović says to someone. First, to look at the quality of imports in one word, because by doing some customs work, I have come to the realization that all these importers who have done so so far have usually imported goods that are running out of time. A month, two, three months, etc. And it's a commodity that's very low there, or low prices. Or whoever owns the goods, whose deadline is at the end must pay good and fat for the goods to be exported and in an adequate manner destroyed there. And that's why they're welcome to have all these countries who are in transition to give anything for it. Because they're definitely gonna have to pay to take it out. Now, I'm afraid such goods they don't want to import, because such goods are really low there, low prices, extremely low prices. An example of making a kilo of chicken there costs no less than 90 fening here which are. That's extremely tempting compared to our prices that are triple here, and maybe even quadruple and five times that I don't speak quality number one. It's about that. And now I wanted to ask Mr. Minister because here I was collecting I saw that all of this was on one side, and on one side there were tons of animal meat. So what I was most afraid of, it's from Holland, etc. frozen at the end of the deadlines, etc. Based on this exact number 2,268. Is that some kind of budget, because that's some kind of request, is that some kind of, like, where did this number 8 come from at the end? I thought of another thing I wanted to ask, why for chicken meat, or 1:3, and for pig 2:1, or here for beef and salamures, etc. Salting 1:3, which is a little 80 tons and 120 tons, so for chickens you need to buy one so you can import 3 kilograms. There are some doubts that come from my knowledge and where did that figure of 2,000 come from? Is that a figure based on how much meat there is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this figure is 1/3 of these 2.268 tonnes for this year which will be able to mean that we buy this 1/3 all together so that we can still introduce these 2/3, or someone took it arbitraryly and said let's do it so much, etc. I need that much, etc. etc. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2992	I thank my fellow Spasojević. Now he has the word of dear colleague Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2993	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I want to say a few words on this subject. There is one good thing, although this agenda point seems not good to me that this has come to us as a proposal to Parliament at all. I agree here with Mr. Spasojević. However, there is one good thing that has made me happy, because it was the exact same way that Mr. Čengić, Mr. Nada Radović and Mr. LImov have discussed and I am joining it. You understand me. Indeed in exactly the same way, no, no, I am for another kind of change that should be happening about this Parliament, and it is happening here. It's not, it's a very serious thing for me and a very important thing for me as a message that needs to get out of this parlametre. A message to all political forces along with Bosnia and Herzegovina that things are moving forward and that we are aware here, no one can accuse us that, for this and what is said, unitaryism or what I know we are accused of, but we are looking at the objective state of the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because wherever you talk to the farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I know that in Tešnja village of Radusa, I know that for years, for decades, it has lived from the market in Tesla. I know that 100%. I'm not saying that this village should live on that farm today. No, it should go forward and move forward, but no one can convince me that Raduša is not making vegetables at all today, but is taking him from the market in Pristina to Radhud. Why? He says it's not worth it. It's not worth raising cattle. It's not worth growing, every 100 houses have a cow in the village. That's, that's inexplicable to me. It's not me that every house has one cow today and that's what makes it a living. No, I don't. But conditions must be created so that people 36 can objectively live off working on agriculture where they have conditions for it. We don't have that. We don't have a reason? Because everything is left literally to the occasion. Not one country can't be serious if there's no law on agriculture. And here we have heard today from all the MPs of all three nations that literally we are shouting for it. And I got up to say that the message to the political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina to sit down, we don't need an international community. If we say ourselves, we want the law on agriculture, and we need every farmer in both Bijeljina and Capljina and Tešnje anywhere, because that way everyone will be protected. I'll tell the Minister right now, I'll raise my hand for this, but if you come to me in three months with a similar proposal, you know, I'll be against it. I'll be against it right now, because I'm not going to put myself in a position to vote for palitative things that will last a month and then we have the same problem again. I want us to solve this problem in another way as it is solved in all civilized countries. I don't give a shit when I go, I travel through a European country, and I see it all worked, and I travel through Bosnia and I see 80% unprocessed. These people always lived on agriculture. It's out of your mind. It is our fault, we, the government is currently guilty of this and I criticise the Council of Ministers and criticise here here publicly now here I say economic experts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and agricultural experts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are not and are not heard, I cannot read any text critical analysis of the situation in agriculture. Where our wonderful doctors are sciences from the Sarajevo agricultural colleges, Banja Luka, Mostar, are silent. They have no right to remain silent as we do not have the right to remain silent. Where are the solutions they offer us? We need to pass framework laws on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, but experts should participate, they should be used. They'll probably answer, they won't hire us. Gentlemen, write down to hear, let's see your attitudes. They're nowhere to be found. And please, I just got up to say, I took a little bit more time to send a message to the Council of Ministers, to all the political structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, let's make it the Ministry of Agriculture to get that step out of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2994	I thank my colleague, Brk. Mr. Doko, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2995	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable MPs have been asked a few questions, so I'd like to give an answer if I can. As far as the agriculture ministry is concerned, and I am pleased with your initiative that the time has matured to form the agriculture ministry. It's kind of a political decision, so it's good to come from the House of Peoples. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, I can tell you that the responsibility of the Council of Ministers in the Agriculture Sector is very small. The capacity of this foreign trade ministry within one sector and within one section. This is very bad and we, regardless of your initiative we welcome, have decided to go into the formation of a sector for agriculture and forestry, tourism and water industry. If the establishment of the agriculture ministry is very simply such a single sector to be a core along with the Veterinary Office, along with the Plant Protection Authority, which was formed by the Council of Ministers' decision and now a tender for the Director, Deputy Director, is currently under way and the systemisation procedure goes on. As for your discussions in the House of Peoples, I can also convey to you the atmosphere that governs the Council of Ministers. It's similar. And we are unique when it comes to these proposed measures. So the Council of Ministers 37 had a consensus when proposing such measures, and also in the Council of Ministers, the heads of the parties and representatives of the political options, so that we can practically say that it is a disease. As regards imports of these amendments and additions to the Customs Tariff Act, they will not determine from which countries the meat category will be imported. This is just about whether it's going to be under one customs or other regime. And so far, imports have been imported from the Netherlands, imported from other countries and this law does not depend on where they will be imported from. The veterinary office, or veterinary border inspection, is the one who has to examine the goods and the goods must be correct, healthy. She can't even be suspicious, because if she's suspicious, it means she hasn't been examined. It is either correct for the health of people and animals, or it means meat that does not correspond, or it is about the expiry of the deadline so that this practically law will not depend on where it will be imported. The fact is that even so far, it's been imported as far as it's been and paid for by customs and over-the-counter. When it comes to why one to three, for chicken meat, because it's just as I said before, means only 5% can be recovered from the chicken and then it's exactly that ratio that meets that annual need or, in this case, a three-month need that's once again determined by a group within an external trade chamber. If you remember those decisions made earlier by the Council of Ministers, and this time we decided not to go through with decisions, it means going in a way to amend the law and to create a more legal basis for implementing such measures. Pigmeat two to one, the reason is because they're buying out whole pigs. So it's not going to buy out a piece of pig meat, it's going to buy out a whole pig and then a kilo of bought-out meat can be imported from imports without paying for customs. And with chicken meat, since it's only about 5% as much as it can be bought realistically, because nobody's going to file, nobody's going to bataka, nobody's going to use some other parts of the chicken to sell them at some prices that are low. As for these two thousand, you ask for this number 2268, is 8 at the end. These are the needs of means that the External Chamber of Commerce calculated to satisfy the processing gates. It's about that information. As far as production is concerned, it's much bigger. The production of chicken meat, since only 5% of the total production of chicken meat will be the subject of a purchase on the basis of which the right to import a duty-free quantity of this product will be created. So that's the need for importing that booth. And we've singled out, if you might have looked at it, it's a similar text that used to come to the House of Representatives' sessions, and they've never been to the House of Peoples because they didn't go through the procedure in the House of Representatives, they've singled out chicken meat, they've added "ex" in front of the "ex" sign, which means that we went to further analysis where we've strictly said that it's a product that has to be in a block, which can't be cut to pieces by meat, just to prevent abuses. The fact is that there's a time ahead of us and this period when we have to and by sharing everything you said, which is really possible and if there's a gap on our side, then it might happen and I'm warning you of an instrument that's very important. This law itself will not open the possibility of exports. So we won't be liberalized in the sense that everyone who imports doesn't pay now. Hemorati have to get permission from the ministry to import. It's also a very important instrument that, in some ways, strengthens our responsibility in this part of the implementation. Together with the administration again, I say here is the same management is very important in implementing these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2996	I thank Mr. Secretary. You want to talk to Shilegovic? I give my word to Mr. Boško Šiljegović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2997	So since we are likely to make a statement about the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Čengić to come to a unique conclusion, I ask you not to prejudge anything. In the first conclusion, the Serbian delegates' club said -- it is asked by the Council of Ministers to implement the conclusions of the House of Peoples adopted on 26 April, and in particular to adopt a strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's agricultural development with measures to encourage domestic production. We believe and trust in the Council of Ministers that, through the adoption of the strategy, they will propose whether it is the sector, department or state ministry, and that we do not now prejudge, so I ask you, and then the Club of Delegates from the Serb People will support all these conclusions. And in their strategy that they're going to propose, they're going to say whether it's going to go in this form, one or three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2998	nada Radović. nada Radović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u2999	I'd only be part of this after we've given ourselves up, so we accept that we're solving the 100th law and we'd have another conclusion. The Council of Ministers undertakes to respect, consistently and in time, the application of Article 2 of this Act, which is an analysis, effects, etc. So after the end of three months or 1/3 of the quota is presented here at the House, that is, the Council of Ministers shall analyse and deliver to Parliament what we have done with the results of the application of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3000	That would add up as
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3001	The Council of Ministers undertakes to respect the application of Article 2 of this Act consistently and in due time.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3002	Wait a minute. Allow me. I give my word to Mr. Čengić. Please, I would ask for more stenograms to hear Mr. Čengić say this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3003	If I Can Get
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3004	You can have the word. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3005	So if I can get the word. I thank my colleagues for the suggestions. As far as I'm concerned, these suggestions are certainly acceptable and I personally accept them, and if that's enough for us to agree on the conclusions. I think we should do it anyway. I particularly agree with this suggestion by Mr. Šiljegović not to prejudge the form in which the Council of Ministers will learn in this process of establishing a structure that will take care of agriculture. So I'm totally open here. I'd still like to point out one thing. Until that moment until we press this button here, this is a story. And those seconds, it's starting to be a business that's dizzy in this direction or that direction. I once again pray to the Council of Ministers for which I know it is not easy to really make additional efforts to control this. This is one point that is, one move that can be positive, but it's borderline that not because we don't want to do good, but because it's really hard to control this process all the time to go to the other side. So it's not only important for me to agree on that formally that we have these conclusions, but that the Council of Ministers understands that this is, so I would like the Council of Ministers to understand, Mr. Minister, that the moment this House adopts, I think it's the mood that this House will adopt this law that you have actually taken one extremely large responsibility with a huge risk. We, I don't believe that we will be kind and merciful to you next time if things are determined that aren't right. Because we don't have that right. So, we all agreed about one thing that domestic production is what is the basic interest and I'm convinced that with good control this can give good results, as I certainly know with a letter on paper that will not be converted into daily and then further operations and supervision, this will go the other way. In that sense, all the suggestions I've heard so far about the conclusions are acceptable to me and I suggest we accept them, and we can subsequently systematicize the order. That's absolutely not controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3006	I thank Mr. Čengić. We don't have any more discussions. Now I'm going to put it to a vote so this, the procedure to make it clear that we're going after Article 100, and then the second vote would be, if you agree together that it means, let's actually go first so I don't prejudge myself. So I'm opening a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3007	...that I'm not being maligned. So the printed little letter h in Herzegovina lacks a letter r that perhaps someone is rolling. It's not because of me, it's because of the dactylographic bureau here in the Parliamentary Assembly. So there's no malignancy, I object to a technical error and beg to be corrected in the original in the future original text. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3008	I hope the Hercegovac appreciated this. And I'm an indirect Hercegovac, my wife's a Hercegovka. So who is for the law in question to be considered under Article 100(2)? Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'm opening a vote. I find that 12 delegates voted for, two were abstentions and we accepted this procedure. Now I suggest we vote, if you agree, that is, we should open a debate on the law. I think we've already done it in this first part of this agenda, and if you don't mind, just to make sure there's no answer. No one answered for the word. So I can conclude a debate on this agenda point. And now I would like to suggest that, if you want us to vote on the law together with these conclusions that Mr. Čengić will systemize on the proposal, then they will be determined by order and I propose. No, okay. I therefore propose that we declare ourselves therefore on the Law of Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act by emergency procedure No 01,02-02-2-7/04 of 9.6.2004 and I open the vote. We have 13 for and 1 against. I find that the law has been passed. I am now voting on the proposal for conclusions, so these, here before this vote, Mr. Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3009	If it's okay with you, about this conclusion of mine just to rephrase a little, if Mr. Čengić agrees. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It reads - the Council of Ministers is in charge that every 3 months, so I am not sure that it will be every 3 months, so it would change. The Council of Ministers therefore undertakes to respect the application of Article 2 consistently and in time, which means 1/3 of the quota or 3 months and to report to Parliament. So we're not giving them the right every three months maybe after a month we'll say stop doesn't go this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3010	Okay. It's acceptable means for. Here I suggest that Mr. Čengić and Mr. Radović put these other words together. If there's anyone else in need? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3011	On Mr. Radovic's proposal, point four, to correct himself in the way he suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3012	Okay. I'm opening a vote on the proposal for a conclusion. 41 I find that we unanimously adopted these conclusions with 14 votes in favour. I thank my fellow delegates now for their more effective work with these next agenda points. So as the 10th point of the agenda, we have A.10. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law supplementing the law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives passed this law by emergency procedure at their 39th session. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There isn't. So you listened to me. Thank you. No debates have been reported. Who is for this law to be considered under Article 100(2)? Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a vote right now. 12 of us voted. 11 for, 1 abstention? So I'm realizing we've adopted this procedure. I'm opening a debate about the law. Who's answering for a word? First time, second time. No Niko checked in. We'll vote on the law now. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Open vote. I agree that this law was passed by 13 votes. Thank you. Point 11. Ad.11. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, as referred to in Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The amendments can't be submitted. The House of Representatives also passed the law by emergency procedure at its 39th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? As I can see, there are no reports. I'm opening a vote. Now. I find that this procedure has been adopted. 12 for one abstention. Niko one was against it. I'm opening a debate about the law. There are no reports. Now we're going to vote on the law. I'm opening a vote. Now. I find that unanimously adopted, 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. 42 We move to the next item of the agenda. That's Ad.12. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Framework Law on the Registration of Business Entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples means only a debate is being held whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 38th session. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Thank you. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? I'm opening a vote. The law, i.e. a request from the Council of Ministers, was adopted to reduce the deadlines unanimously, 12 votes for, no one against, any abstentions. So the requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure was adopted. Thirteenth agenda, Add.13. A request from the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement in BiH under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 38th session. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? I'm opening a vote. I find that unanimously this proposal has been adopted without, without abstention, 13 votes for, a request for the law to be considered by a reduced procedure, so it has been adopted. Paragraph 14 of the agenda, Ad.14. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 38th session. Is anyone answering for a word?? There are no reports. I am opening a vote on whether the law will be considered under Rule 99 of our Rules of Procedure? The vote is open now. I find that with 11 votes, it is unanimity, therefore, without those who are against and abstentions, the requirement for the law to be considered by a reduced procedure. I'm going to the 15th item of the agenda, I'm sorry. Is this before the vote either later or later? You're welcome. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3013	In fact, I think it would be good, now this one series of procedural statements on the laws, there are still 6 or 7, I think all of these laws that are being considered under procedure 99 might also state the vote. To discuss everyone. If there's a need, then you can make a statement about everyone. I think it'd be practical.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3014	I fully agree with Mr. Genjac's proposal, but I think we've had that practice so far that we're individually pleading, so here's what I don't know. If you want, we can make a statement about whether or not we're going to plead that way. Here's what my esteemed colleague Pamuk once said. Let's go from point to point. That's what it Yeah, so according to procedure. Point 15 of the agenda, Ad.15. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as referred to in Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines at their 38th session. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm opening a vote. I find that it has been unanimously adopted, 11 for, without abstentions and against the requirement for the law to be considered under a shortened procedure has been adopted. The 16th item of the agenda is Ad.16. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 38th session. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm opening a vote. I find it unanimous that, unanimously, the requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure with 12 votes, without opposition and abstentions. Seventeen Ad.17. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 38th session. 44 Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm opening a vote. I'm establishing a unanimous point of 17. So a unanimous requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. Moving to the 18th point of the Ad.18 agenda. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law at their 37th session. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Thank you. I'm opening a vote. A unanimous request for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure, 12 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. Moving to the 19th point of the Ad.19 agenda. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House – the Proposer is the House of Representatives. It is debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm opening a vote. Ad.20. Request for an examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations – Proposer House of Representatives - debate is being held whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I konstatovati that a unanimous requirement for the law to be considered by a brief procedure has been adopted. Agenda point 21. Ad.21. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, – the first reading of the Law is considered in the first reading of Article 90. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the proposed text in both readings at its 39th session. You've received a report from the commission. 45 Is anyone picking up? Thank you. So I'm opening a vote on the Ombucmen Act, on the principles of first reading. We've got one abstention and no one's against it. The law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the law and the second reading. We're going to vote now on who it is so we can do the debate in another reading. I'm opening a vote. 11 was for, no one was against, one was abstentioned. So we move on to another reading. There was no amendment to the law. Is anyone picking up? They're closing the debate. I'm opening a vote on this ombucmen law. 12 voted for, no one against, no one abstention. The law was unanimously adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Here in college there's a request for one break, so I suggest another 2-3 of this speed bill and we'll take a coffee break. We're going to the 22nd item of the Ad.22 agenda. Proposal for a Law on Mediation Procedure – First Reading The Law is considered in the first reading, Member of our 90th Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. At the 37th session, the House of Representatives passed the law in both readings with 12 amendments. You've received a report from the commission. The Commission adopted identical amendments as at the House of Representatives. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the law and the second reading. I'm opening a vote. I find that 11 voted for, no one against, no one abstention. We're moving on to another reading. There were no new amendments to the law. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 46 I'm opening a vote on the law. You can start now. 13 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that the Law on Mediation Procedure in the same text as the House of Representatives was unanimously adopted. We're moving to agenda 23. Ad.23. Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute of Measurement/Metrology – first reading of the Law is considered in the first reading, Article 90. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. At their 38th session, the House of Representatives passed the law in both readings with three amendments. In addition, you have a report from the commission. The Commission passed a law without amendments. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a vote. Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? Now you can vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the law and the second reading. I'm opening a vote. 11 for, no one against, no one abstention. We're moving on to another reading. So there were no new amendments to the law. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing up. I'm opening a vote. Who's up for the adoption of the law? There's an open vote you can have. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the law has been passed. As the Law has been adopted in various texts, I propose that we immediately appoint members of the Coordination Commission. Hey, club chiefs, come on in. Let's go left to right. We'll be right out of the middle. Mr. Ante Spajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3015	I think we've agreed to Jukić before. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3016	In front of the Serbian delegates' club, Mr. Nada Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3017	Here you go, Bosniaks. Just turn it on. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3018	In front of the Bosniak Club Dr. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3019	Thank you. I am opening a vote on the Commission's proposal for reconciliation. You can vote. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that Mr. Ilija Filipović, Mr. Nada Radović and Mr. Halid Genjac have been elected as members of the Law Coordination Commission. Here's another item on the agenda, if that's okay with you, for a short coffee break. _________(?) We could've gotten to this agreement. Okay. I agree. He can do fine. Let's go 24th Point of the Ad.24 agenda. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Standardisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading of the Law is considered in the first reading under Article 90. Rules of Procedure. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. At the 38th session, the House of Representatives adopted the Law in both readings with six amendments. There's been a report from the commission. The Commission passed the law, our committee with one amendment. Is anyone picking up? So I'm closing up, closing up the debate. Who is for the law to be adopted in the first reading? I'm opening a vote. ...no one against, no one abstention. The law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the law and the second reading. Who's in? I'm opening a vote. Unanimity. 14 for. We're moving on to another reading. There were no new amendments to the law. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a vote on the law. You can vote. 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that the law has been passed unanimously. As the Law has been adopted in various texts, I propose that we appoint members of the Coordination Commission immediately. 48 Here I would give myself the freedom to propose the same yes. Same day, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3021	It was agreed at the Club in front of the Serbian delegates' club Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3022	All right, we'll handle it. Don't worry about your colleague Filipović. You can be the high representative of our club. So I am voting on the proposal that the members of the Coordination Commission be Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Ilija Filipović and Mr Vinko Radovanović. I'm opening a vote. 13 for, 1 abstention, no one against. I find that Mr Genjac, Filipović and Radovanović have been appointed members of the Commission for Law-Making. And this point. And let's go before break this 25th item of the Ad.25 agenda. The proposal for a law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property – first reading The House of Representatives adopted at the 38th session in the proposed text. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. You've received the law, as well as a report from the committee responsible. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings at the 38th session in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Niko. I'm closing the debate. .....interruption of the link...to conduct a debate in the first reading of this law on the establishment of an Institute of Intellectual Property. First reading. There's an open vote. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. The law in the first reading was passed. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm opening a vote. Who's to have a discussion in the second reading? I figure 13 was in, against one, no one was abstentioned. We're moving on to another reading. You've received a report from the commission. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments. 49 Is anyone picking up? No Niko's turned. We're voting on the law. Open vote. 13 for, 1 against, no one abstention. The law was adopted in the proposed text as well as at the House of Representatives. Resume work at 5 and 15. Ad.26. [[PAUZA]] Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the United States of America on the protection and conservation of certain cultural properties The report of the committee responsible is obtained. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Put pressure on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3023	The Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, as the committee responsible, discussed the issue of ratification of this Agreement at its session of 17.6., and we have proposed that it be certainly supported by ratification of this agreement, because this agreement is extremely important for cultural co-operation, since, with principle, cultural co-operation is already discussed in the context of certain projects to renovate cultural monuments and other cultural activities in which we expect certain and technical, but also material assistance for these activities from the United States, and therefore we believe that it is extremely important that this agreement be ratified and that it enters into force as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3024	I thank my colleague, Čengić. No one checked in, or that's it. I'm opening the vote. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratification. You can vote. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous approval for ratification has been given. We're moving to agenda 27. Ad.27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of France on the reciprocal improvement and protection of investments You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Here comes Zoran Spasojević. I'm giving my colleague Spasojević. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3025	As the committee responsible for financial and administrative affairs at the House of People at its 16th session held on 29.6.2004, it considered in accordance with Article 89(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly propose a decision on ratification and proposes that this House be ratified for the reasons that these agreements are very important to us, and I am particularly pleased, and I also told the Commission that this is a reciprocal improvement and protection of investment, because they usually do not give us that word reciprocally, so I think, although Mr Pamuk has discouraged me and said as a top economist, he said that this smells like it will not be an investment for that reason, because of this word reciprocally. But it's better not to be if they're in our harm's way, so if they're in our profits, so be it for us as a commission, we suggest that this agreement be ratified.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3026	I thank my colleague Spasojević. I don't see any more reports. I'm opening a vote. So who's in favour of giving consent to ratification. You can vote now. 13 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous approval for ratification has been given. We're going to the next item on the agenda. That's 28. Ad.28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3027	So at the same session of 18.6. this year, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy discussed this agreement and proposed that this House be agreed to ratify this agreement. He is one in a series of bilateral agreements already reached between Bosnia and Herzegovina and a number of European countries on facilitating communication for diplomatic official passports holders with a tendency to get into that communication on the one hand and on the other and in the process at this time negotiations with another of the countries, we believe this would be useful for further and better co-operation between the two countries, and perhaps for a further phase of even greater visa liberalisation between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3028	I thank my colleague, Čengić. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a vote, so who's in favor of giving consent to ratifying this agreement. You can start voting now. 13 for, abstention 1, versus no one. I agree that this agreement has been ratified. 51 We move to the 29th point of the Ad.29 agenda. Giving consent to ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. We're opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Hasan Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3029	At the same session, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy discussed the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and suggested that the House ratify it. The agreement is essentially one of the reasons why it is almost identical to the existing ones already signed in the region. This way Bosnia and Herzegovina almost closes the circle around it, so the first and second lines of neighbours. What the Commission found was that the level of economic co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania is inadmissiblely low. There is a total of around 15m euros in work, and we believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina's businessmen would have to make a much greater effort to appear on this market. In this sense, the Commission will suggest that the Foreign Chamber be organised a meeting where several, representatives of countries such as Romania, Bulgaria etc. were present on the one hand and businessmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the other hand to learn about the possibilities of economic co-operation. It is interesting that from the time that the Commission ratified this agreement to this day, I have been contacted by a medium-sized company from Bosnia and Herzegovina and asked for it, it has asked for a document that the Commission has ratified this because it needed it to continue a contract that already has and which is difficult, I think two or three million marks, exporting parts of metal parts somewhere Gradator, something like this. So it was very important to them, they even asked for a document that the Commission adopted this. They thought it was so important to extend the contract. So we think it would be useful to ratify this, but then take advantage of the great possibility of economic co-operation with Rumuni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3030	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Here's a colleague of Radović. We have a technical problem here with the vote. I've seen us more than we vote for a long time. Here's a constructive proposal from the club. Okay. So now we will vote on this agreement to ratify the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania. I'm opening a vote. Here's 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous approval for ratification has been given. 52 The 30th item of the agenda is A.30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automatic processing of personal data and amendments and additions to the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, given the automatic processing of personal data Who remembered this, who repeated this here I give 100 marks. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Nothing. It's all right. It's a closed debate. Who's for consent to be ratified? I'm opening a vote right now. 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous approval for ratification has been given. I'm going to the 31st point of the agenda. That's Ad.31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol with the Convention for the Protection of Individuals in view of the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow I have received the data protocol. So it's fixed. Maybe you have it, too. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 37th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. Niko. I'm opening a vote. Who's to give consent to this ratification. Now you can vote. Thank you. 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a unanimous approval for ratification has been given. The 32nd item of the agenda is A.32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement relating to the preparation and provision of air traffic services and use of devices by Eurocontrol at the control centre for the control of air traffic in Central Europe in the above air traffic The report of the competent commission is divided into benches. Did you get it? The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at the 40th session. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Hasan Čengić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3031	Given that the ratification of this agreement is related to certain deadlines, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy has taken note of this fact this morning and 53 has considered this report and had the opportunity to hear the explanation of the representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Commission considers that we should give consent to this agreement for several reasons, and above all to enter this area CEAC and within those eight countries, four of which have already ratified, and our race is to be minutes before Slovenac, because if we are before Slovenac, we have the chance of getting more technical and other assistance for further training of our control system and for this reason we believe that we should propose to the House to give consent to the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3032	I would like to thank my colleague Čengić and the other members of the Commission for their zealous performance. No more reports. I'm opening a vote. So who's to give consent to ratification. Now you can vote. 14 for, no one against, no one abstention. The approval for ratification was unanimously given. The 33rd item of the agenda is A.33. Report on the results of the Commission's investigation of the House of Nations' work to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić's arrest at his 17th session of the House of Peoples was founded by the Research Commission to determine the circumstances of Mr Ante Jelavić's arrest, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić. The Commission completed its work and submitted its report. Who's answering for a word? I see Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3033	Thank you, Mr. President. Since this commission's report and before it's finished, it's caused a lot of media attention, and that's one reason, one of the reasons why I came out here, and I'm not even photogenic, and there's a lot of me on the media. I'll try ladies and gentlemen very briefly, since maybe some of the information funds didn't get this report. Very short. On the basis of Article 23(4), The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Committee of Investigation of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to determine the circumstances of the arrests of Mr Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of those arrested, at a session held on 28.5.2004, established a final report on the work, on the results of the Istring Commission's work. I will now skip all of this, the Commission sent a letter asking the same content at the following addresses: the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior and the Federal Ministry of Police, the lawyers arrested by Josip Muselimović, Žark Bulić and Marko Martinović. The Commission’s task is to obtain sound and complete information, and to identify all relevant decisive facts regarding the following issues: 1. Is the procedure for the arrest laid down by law? 2. Were there violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the arrest? 54 The Commission sent a letter and a letter to SFOR on 30.04.2004. Answers in the form of information, documents, notifications, replies, statements, at the request of the Commission, and we list them in order, according to the dates of their admission to the office, except that the SFOR response has never arrived. So, at all these addresses that we've sent, we've got the answer, to cut it short. Reading. By carrying out its task as set out in the conclusion of the House, which, from that chronology, has led to the coming of acts, it is clear that for objective reasons that an extension of a certain working time has taken place, the Commission has, at all times, taken particular note that none of its actions raises the principle of independence and independence of judicial and prosecutorial duties, and that, however, it achieves the objective and receives from competent, state and entity and cantonal bodies, as well as the persons to whom this applies, the necessary information, on which it can only base its work and bring valid and well-founded stakes, and, accordingly, make up this report. Therefore, during the work, the Commission kept an eye on the finding of facts regarding two key issues, whether a procedure for the arrest has been laid down by law and whether human rights violations and fundamental freedoms have been committed in the case of arrests. By carefully studying all the information, acts, answers, notices and statements, it is unanimous that they are sufficient for further work and that no further hearings or individual conversations with any person are required. The Commission’s decisive and important observations: 1. It is clear from the documentation submitted that certain competent institutions in the state (Justice Ministry and Ministry of Security) and at the level of the Federation of BiH (the Ministry of Interior, i.e. The Federal Ministry of Interior) has no views at all on the issues raised by the commission in the implementation of the arrest activities. The chairman of the Council of Ministers and Security has not been informed about the matter at all, as they said at a joint session of both homes held on 23 January 2004, on the day the arrest was carried out. 2. Different views on one side of the Federal Police Administration and the Court of BiH, in particular organised crime departments, economic crime and corruption, which ordered the director of the Federation's police department to carry out the arrests, which keep all their actions, actions and procedures legally and on the other side of the Federal Ministry of Justice's position which clearly indicates a violation of the federal law on internal affairs, by the Federal Police Administration, because there was no legal basis for the use of a special police unit in specific cases. 3. And, if Kimisija requested, she did not receive any response from the Federal Ministry of Interior, and in this business, and all activities in this ministry were directly related to the Director of the Federal Police Administration, despite the fact that the Law on the Internal Affairs of the Federation of BiH, Article 35(2) clearly specify that a special police force will provide support to the criminal police in exceptional or high risk circumstances, and, where necessary, assist the cantonal authorities and other authorities, at the request of those bodies or on a proposal from the Director of the Service and with the approval of the Minister. It is clear that there has been no request from the Ministry of the Interior of the Herzegovina and the Ministry of Interior of the West-Herzegovina Canton and no 55 other bodies of the Administration to provide any legislation required to assist a special police unit, because the cantonal interior ministry, in whose area the arrest was carried out, has not been notified at all, contrary to the provisions of Article 35(3) and Article 5. The BiH Federation's Internal Affairs Act, Official Journal of the Federation of BiH, No. 19/03. Note. Commission member Osman Brka was against point 3 of this report. Notice number four. Therefore, it is indisputable that in the entire text very extensive information from the Federal Ministry of Interior Police Department on measures taken at the request of the Federal and State Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, in the case of Herzegovačka Banka Mostar, which was composed by Mr Zlatko Miletić, Director and Chief Inspector of the position, the Federal Ministry of Interior Police Administration, there is neither a request from the Director nor the approval of the Minister for the Crossing of the Special Police Unit from headquarters and its use in the performance of the task in Mostar and Ljubusca on 23 January 2004, which leads us to the conclusion that the Director of the Federal Ministry of Interior Police has neither achieved nor granted the Security Authority of the Federal MUP with the competent cantonal ministries, as set out in Article 5 of the Law on Internal Affairs of the Federation of BiH, nor with the cantonal Ministry of Interior, in a concrete matter of State-Musing the need of State of State-Coration, which has been carried out in accordance with the terms of State-M. The collection of notices from those persons in a returned memo, in which the Federal Police Administration, without a dilemma, violated federal law. Note, Commissioner Osman Brka, was against point 4 of this report. Notice number five. From the text of Police Director's Command No. 0945 of 22.01.2004, it is unquestionably illegally engaged special forces to carry out measures and activities to find and deprive those persons of their freedom, i.e. to support the criminal police, which exceeds the prescribed powers of the Director of the Police Administration. Note, Commissioner Osman Brka was against point 4 of this report. Six. The Commission considers the relevant opinion delivered by the Ministry of Justice of the Federation of BiH in its response No 0119/04 of 19.02.2004 and accepts it as such, that KTA6903 of 22.01.2004 cannot conclude that the investigation is warranted by a criminal offence committed in the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of Interior (prevention and detection of terrorist offences, inter-cantonal crime, trafficking of intoxicating drugs and organised crime, defined by Article 3. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, Official Journal of the Federation of BiH, No 20/01. The conclusion is that the Federal Police Administration in the current federal law did not have a legal basis for handling, especially for the use of a special police unit, because according to Article 35(1) of the BiH Federation's internal affairs, a special police unit is being educated to carry out anti-terrorist and other police transactions under Article 1(1) and (2) of that law, preventing and detecting criminal offences and terrorist inter-cantonal crime, placing on the market intoxicating drugs and organised crime, as defined in Article 3. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Supreme Court of BiH, and finding and catching the perpetrators of these crimes and bringing them to the authorities. 56 When such careful consideration was given to the prerogatives for the use of a special police unit under Article 35 of that federal law, it was worth drawing attention to those of the state-level officials without a level, regardless of the provision of Article 21(2). The BiH Criminal Procedure Act, which prescribes the duties of these authorities in official co-operation with the BiH Court of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office and other bodies participating in the criminal proceedings. Note. Commission member Osman Brka was against point 6 of this report. Seven. The Commission's previous observations indicate that there have been violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by Article 2(2) of the arrest. The Constitution of BiH and the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as its protocols below the Convention. Since the provisions of the Convention have priority over all other domestic laws, they are obliged to comply with them and all institutions at all levels of BiH, including courts. Note. Member of the Commission, Osman Brka, was against point 7 of this report. 8. Article 5 The Convention protects the right to freedom and personal security and lists the circumstances under which persons may be deprived of liberty, and states that no one should be deprived of liberty except under the procedure prescribed by law. Certainly, the legality of the arrest assumes an arrest in accordance with domestic legal standards, so as not to violate Article 5.1. The Convention, which could not be concluded by the argument given from points 2 to 7 of this report. In addition, there is no danger of the escape of the arrested or justifiable suspicions of the execution of a criminal offence that would continue to be detained in custody. Note. Commission member Osman Brka was against point 8 of this report. It's final. It is recommended that the House, by considering this report, submit a full report to the competent institutions at the state level, the federal and cantonal levels. Based on Mr Miroslav Rupčić's personal statement of inhumane treatment during his arrest, we ask all state and entity institutions and the Brcko District of BiH to strictly respect the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and their direct application without exception. In addition to the report, we provide the documentation submitted to the Commission, so that all the MPs concerned may be fully familiar with those facts, which are not contained in this report, because other natures and are not in the power of the Commission, with the obligation to keep the documents delivered, especially those which warn and bear the designation of secrecy. For the rapporteur, yes. Mr. President, dear colleagues, this has been one hard, hard and hard work. That's a few kilos of material. I wouldn't have had anything to add. Everything I had was contained in this report. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3034	I thank Mr Šiljegović very much for this exhaustive report and now I give my word to Mr Ilija Filipović, also to a member of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Filipović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3035	Dear ladies and gentlemen, chair of the College, Mr. Deputy Minister and all those present who follow our work, allow me to say, present my personal thoughts as a member of the College, but only a little bit in other ways as regards how the report was written and how he said it to the chairman of the Commission, although some things will be... Today we are discussing this report, exactly five months and six days after the arrests took place, and today is exactly 156 days, I am not saying this without reason, 156 days after the founding of our investigation committee, with a basic task of determining the circumstances of the arrest of Mr Jelavić, Prce and Rupčić, or to determine whether there have been violations of the law of the prescribed procedure and whether there have been violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the arrested. During that time period, while the commission, as the chairman himself said, committed and diligently carried out its task, we listened, watched, read various elaborates in connection with this case, with various objectives and colourful messages of the public, most often with very bombistic and very suggestive headlines of domestic and media in our neighborhood, with judgmental and judgmental seals in special emissions of certain electronic media in our country and we were and were still witnessing that there were judicial proceedings, in which public figures were prosecuted in this case, before the Court's decision, in this created atmosphere in the public, first delivered to those whose task is not, at least in countries called democratic and which tend to be legally safe and legally regulated countries. It's very interesting, at least I didn't personally notice, no one was very concerned with the questions for which our investigation committee was founded. So, the circumstances of the arrest and whether there were human rights violations, I also mentioned in my representative issue an exclusive weekly newspaper, which, with the help of its co-workers, which works with us, and against us in Parliament, came exclusively to the text. On the contrary to our mission, the public topic is a set of millions of sums, in order to draw attention to the subject of which we as the Investigative Commission must inform this honorable home and the nature of the crime itself is in focus, which is a burden on the detainees and the accused, which only who, only the court, can give their legal remedy. However, this mention of a months-long time-out, which I am now saying is that I understand more easily this content of the testimony offered to this home, this deviation from the moment of arrest, to this day and all these days that I have mentioned to you, and already created the perception of the guilt of the defendants of their convictions without judgment, trying to suppress in a sitting or to do less significant and insignificant act and the manner of arrest that we are investigating. Personally, I would like today, if this debate were not there too, some minor item of the agenda at the end of the session, today's session of the House of Peoples, because it is indeed a matter of importance, which, after the debate, will determine whether or not there has been any breach of the law in the absence of freedom, or whether in this case there has been a violation of fundamental human rights. From the contents of the report delivered to you, you noticed that there were both. So there have also been violations of the law prescribed in the case of arrests, as well as violations of human rights. On this position in the report, you heard from the chairman, I will repeat my opposition from point 3 to point 8 of Mr. Osman Brka's commission, to which he had the right. Except for the act of Mr Genjac's resignation, under point 4 of the report, you noticed that the Commission had 15 different acts that had arrived in response to the committee of the relevant state and federal institutions, as well as by the attorneys of the detainees, the defendants, but also that certain state and federal instance had no views on the issues which addressed our 58 commission. Certainly, our attention in the work has been particularly addressed by the Federal Ministry of Interior Police on measures taken on the request of the federal prosecutor, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Court of BiH, in the case of Hercegovica Bank. In the report of the Committee in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 we presented the legal aspect of the analysis of the above information of the Federal Ministry of Interior Police Administration, with nothing to do with the principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority and the prosecutorial duty in BiH. Which is completely proportional. It is clearly seen that the procedure for the arrest itself does not have a solid basis in the Law on the Internal Affairs of the Federation of BiH and a call for the provisions of this law in the conduct of the Federal Police Administration, through the full text of that information delivered to the Commission, are simply not correct, because this law has been violated, in particular in Article 35 in conjunction with Article 2(1) of this Law. Mr. Šiljegović also mentioned it. I would now specify what is in this article. I'm not sure that everyone, just any provision that is so extensive of material, which is very important in relation to the grades and attitudes of this star, that we all have been able to read it carefully. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Internal Affairs Act. He says the internal affairs of the Federal Ministry are: 1. Preventing and detecting the crimes of terrorism, inter-cantonal crime, placing on the market intoxicating drugs and organised crime, and finding and catching the perpetrators of these crimes and bringing them to the authorities. For the purposes of Article 35(1) of the same Law, the Commission considers that it is necessary to establish the conditions set out in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013. In order to carry out the anti-terrorism and other police operations referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of the Law, we are being educated by a controversial unit in this business, therefore, a special police unit is being educated. The Special Police Unit shall provide support to the criminal police working on the polar affairs referred to in Article 2(2) in exceptional terms or high risk circumstances, when it is considered necessary skills, special police units. The unit will, where appropriate, assist the cantonal authorities and other administration bodies, at their request and use of a special police unit on the tasks referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, on the proposal of the Director of Police. Therefore, it is true that the Director of Police, Head of Police, and that, in accordance with Article 40, requires the use of a special police unit, if there is any support for the criminal police referred to in Article 35(2), but in the affairs of police management, as federal administration, as part of the Federal Interior Ministry, is responsible for the interior minister. Article 38 of that law says: Police department is run by a police director, and the police director is responsible for the minister, and there is all the answer to our fingertips, against the illegal involvement of a special police unit, because this special police unit, without the knowledge of Minister Halilović, so we have paper that he didn't know it, said the Minister of Security on the day the arrest took place, he was bypassed. On the issue of human rights violations and fundamental freedoms of detainees, point 8 of the Commission's report points to violations of the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as its protocols. In addition, I will not repeat that, he spoke of it by the chairman of the Commission. On page 6, if you have noticed, at the very end of the mentioned information of the Police Administration, stands the text, I will note it is not a debt. "In the course of the implementation of the BiH Court's order, officials of the Federal Ministry of Police, as well as members of SFOR, please, there have been orders showing up with a high degree of professionality of 59 in accordance with the law, respecting human rights, as well as the personality and dignity of suspects. The same was confirmed by Deputy State Prosecutor Džon ja... after a carefully reviewed video of an arrest operation (which was attended by SFOR) showing that police acted with abstention, respecting their faces and property, in line with domestic and international standards." This section on respect for human rights listed in the information provided by the Police Administration, to make that untruth more convincing. Because it's just not true. The truth is something different. Because of all the two who listen to what I am saying, who have read a bunch of materials delivered and everything the Commission has received, so whether or not there has been a violation of human rights, I would warn you of a part of the personal statement signed by the arresters of Mr Miroslav Rupčić, from 9 February 2004, quote his text of his personal statement: "On 23 January 2004, between 04 and 30 and 05 hours, me and my wife, we heard a bell at the front door of the apartment where my wife and two children from 5 and 6 years of age are living. Namely, they entered all the rooms of the apartment, turned on all the lights, and in view of the noise they created, they woke up my underage children, who were scared. I can't say for sure how many people have entered the apartment, I think over ten, with one person filming the entrance to the apartment with a video camera. No material damage was done in the apartment, except for the dirt that those persons had on their clothes. And, still in the middle of the night, I was able to ask them to let me get dressed, which they wouldn't let me. My wife managed to hand me a jacket and a pair of pants, and one person brought shoes and a sweater. So, while I was in my pajamas and barefoot, with some wardrobe in my hand, they led me to the exit from the joint in which I live on the second floor. On my way down to the ground floor of the building, I was surrounded by twenty people, most of whom hurried the exit. When we arrived at the lobby of the building, I noticed that the front door used by all the tenants was broken (broken), because they were locked, and opened via an electronic lock, which can only be unlocked by tenants on the intercom. On the broken panel of the front door, I saw a boot print, because the door was probably broken with a kick. From the exit of the building to the vehicle in which I was taken, there was a circus 100 meters away, which in cold and mud I crossed completely barefoot and in pajamas. When we got in the vehicle and started, it was only then that I was allowed to dress in a modest outfit that I managed to take with me." So, the police crime report, which we received as a material of the Investigation Commission since 26.1.2004, on the last page signed by Mr. Edin Vranić, states that none of them were once handcuffed, closed quotes, which is a small comfort for the barefooting of the detainees in front of the family, and which is why it is a very laudable claim by the Police Administration, that the respected personality and dignity of the suspects, as I read before the quote of the personal statements of the arrestees. So, after what I told you, there could be many more questions. I'll only set four of them. You'd ask these four questions far beyond what I've said. Why some of the mentioned domestic, state and federal institutions were neglected and in a special way why the county police in Hercegova-Neretva and West-Herzegovina County were humiliated. If they are insecure police officers in these two counties, I underline, they are counties with the majority Croatian population. If these are non-professional cops, the police are balanced against the national composition, why are they not sanctioned, and they are not sanctioned, because they are... the knowledge of very good police officers, regardless of which people they came from in that police uniform. The second question is why, according to the law, didn't the court police execute a warrant? The judicial police shall be governed by Article 125 and Article 448. The law on criminal proceedings at state level doesn't exist, but we have it at entity level. 60 Furthermore, why and on the basis of the regulations, be careful to subdue the special police unit and the crime of the Federal MUP of the Federation of BiH, directly commanding SFOR, in the command post at the base in Butmir? That's what the report says. And, finally, why did SFOR see this and in the report refused to cooperate with the bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. with the Investigative Commission, which he did not even want to respond to the sent letter? So these are questions and many more could be asked. And, I propose to this high house, yes, by assessing the work of this investigative committee of judgment and recommending that you accept the proposed report of this committee and allow me, in the end, to suggest the addition of the conclusion that you have at the end of this report. I would suggest that the stake is in the next text. Therefore, it is recommended to the House, by considering and accepting this report, that the overall report be delivered to the relevant institutions at federal, state and county level, in order to detect the failures, in particular those for whom they are illegally arrested, take appropriate measures and determine the individual responsibilities of all those persons who, in particular, have violated the law and acted outside their powers, and to seek the necessary activities and initiatives for amending and supplementing the legislation, in order to meet the future involvement of a special police unit of the Federal MUP, the necessary legal requirements and to protect every person in BiH from being deprived of liberty in an illegal manner. Request all state, entity and institutions of the Brcko District of BiH, strictly respect the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and their direct application without exception. So, I propose such a comprehensive conclusion, it is a bit of an updated conclusion, compared to what the Commission's chairman, Mr Šiljegović, suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3036	I thank my colleague, Mr Filipović, for this exhaustive presentation, and there is a proposal for a puppy that we will discuss later, and now we will hear the third member of the Commission, Mr Brcko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3037	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly explain my position to the Commission why he was who he was and why he had an opinion. Indeed, we have received very extensive material and the essential thing that I did not want to question, that people in BiH who do this kind of work do not respect the law, it was basically not acceptable, because it is an amazing thing in the findings, so here is the conclusion, which Mr Filipović suggested earlier, and we should say here that someone was doing illegal work. I think as a member of the Commission I didn't have enough arguments, enough facts to conclude that the police, or authorities, the prosecution and the Court, who were doing this together, were doing it illegally. I don't want to believe that the BiH state, in the most responsible functions in the prosecution, the judiciary and the police, has people breaking BiH law. If that's it, then we're in anarchy. And that's why I can't accept it, and that's why I've been abstentioned, that is, against the conclusions that are here that we're in a completely unsettled country right now. I'm not saying that there were no mistakes at the time, I'm not saying that everything was fine, but I'm not that court and I'm not the judge who can dry it. If the authorities of this country, who are in charge of this, and not this commission, the institutions that have made mistakes, are to answer. But I don't think this committee and this parliament can be a judge in that case. We can get a report, we can accept it not to accept it, but for me this is ongoing and for me this attitude is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3038	I thank my colleague, Brk, and I give my word to Mr. Tomislav Limov. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3039	Perhaps it would be different if I hadn't heard from my colleagues, the Honorable Mr. Chairman, I, of course, didn't envy this group of two men, or three men, who were our investigative committee, because indeed in very specific conditions they had one rather ambitious task, which is to determine those two things, which are specified in the report. Especially given the fact that they had to do it in a rather unilateral way, when it comes to the investigation committee. Why do I say that? Because, given the fact that the process itself was under way, the investigation committee had no opportunity except to consult certain documents, statements and indications of certain institutions and officials, it was not possible to conduct talks with the detainees, it was not possible to conduct interviews with officials, especially in the part of which the views on certain issues of the official institutions of the Federation, or the state of BiH were diametrically opposite and, on the other hand, I, therefore, respect all the weight in which this commission worked, I welcome the fact that after five months, a report arrived and, of course, the problem is that I disagreed with fundamental views and not only with the approach, but also with the fundamental assessments given in this report. I will try to speak in a certain way from my point of view of this issue and it consults, also, above all the laws, and then to warn the fact that this process did not start the day the arrest was carried out, but there are important moments, which have defined people, who have organised and participated in this activity, that they are doing it exactly this way. However, it seems to me that it would be good, given the fact that we are apparently entering into a period of time when these commissions will probably be or our permanent working bodies will receive certain ad-hoc tasks, where they will have to investigate, it would be good to start from today's first conclusion that we never choose people who are not there or who have not given their consent to be in the commission again. And secondly, let's not in principle form an investigative commission as long as the proceedings continue, whether administrative, investigative, judicial, relevant state bodies. It's very important to keep in mind, and I think that even to our commission, I don't think, I'm sure it would have been much easier if this job had worked in a situation where we had completed these procedural actions. Of course, it should not be particularly stressed that in this case our commission would be more effective, it would be faster to complete the work, and the results of his work would be better, therefore, if the investigation and judicial proceedings had been completed previously. It's been spent like this for five months, so don't be offended by your colleagues, but the results of his work are not God-knowing, and no matter what we claim, it's hard to take away the impression that we've done more harm than the benefits for ourselves now. In order to be quite clear, I would like to say that it is not a bad thing for Parliament to form an investigative commission and through it sees the legality of the work of its executive authority, in particular, it can be applied to the Police Administration, the Federal Ministry, but it is not good for the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice to ask anyone, even if it was parlamentarac to give the information before the process is completed, and I have carefully reviewed this documentation of several kilos and this element is the thing that our Commission has warned the BiH Court of Justice, so it seems to me in one document and the Prosecutor's Office, so I said that I should bear in mind that only one piece of information has reached 77 contributions. Therefore, it should have been systematicized, no matter how hard our commission tried, I think there was oneness in certain elements, and about the content of this one-sidedness, I will also talk about something more concrete. So, there's no dilemma, and as far as I can tell, we talked a little today. The main things, which were the basis of the conclusion of our commission, were these documents, i.e. the statements of the Police Administration, 62 Ministry of Justice of the Federation, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice of BiH, the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of Sarajevo, the Constitutional Court, lawyers and arresters, as Mr Filipović also spoke of. So, without dealing with attitudes, without talking to participants, it's very difficult impartially and competently, so if you want to reach legal conclusions entirely. And, that fact itself, immediately in the beginning raises the value and credibility of the results of the Commission's work. I have a basic insight into all 16, I have counted 16, Mr Filipović said 15, but no matter, the documents on which these views are mostly based, with all these attachments, and I must say that I have a very different view of this, from that view which formed the Committee in the section of the vision entitled "Decisive and Important Observations", that is, in the section entitled "Finished". I'm about to use the same numbers in my mind right now. So, I'm going to count my views, in accordance with the views of the Commission itself, that it might be easier to compare, and because of the fact that we've been working for a long time I won't need to quote the views of the Committee without great need, assuming that all of these colleagues have read and will be able to follow. Of course, I'll make my views more taxing than that, but it'll be clear. First, this first position, which says that the relevant institutions at federal and state level, I quote, is an interesting part: "They have no views at all on the issues that are investigating this commission." This, of course, speaks about how the government itself is organised, about how institutions should function, and I would say, however, that this is also about certain mistrust and not only between certain institutions, but also about the mistrust they have on the other hand and that such is what I say to the representatives of the international community and some domestic institutions, because it is evident that officials of the international community, through SFOR, through the court for the previous proceedings, have been involved and that this activity itself. I really think that the role of these international community entities is not sufficiently highlighted in the Commission's own report, except that they have never received any feedback from SFOR. Secondly, with regard to the diametrically opposing positions on the actions carried out by the Federal Ministry of Justice and the BiH Court of Justice, the Commission accepts as a proper, relevant position, one that has taken over the Federal Ministry of Justice. And that's very debateable, I think it's worth a good think, keeping in mind these previously said two institutions, so the Federal Ministry of Police and the BiH Court. As far as I'm concerned, here, I'll say right now and why. I, therefore, think that the use of a special unit of the Federal Ministry of Interior in a concrete action is the very correct position of the Police and Court of BiH. Of course, right below three. I'm going to say three, I have to say that I'm really surprised at the fact that Articles 2 and 3 and Article 4 of Article 35 are interpreted the way it fits the very essence of the sorcery. Namely, I have a law here on internal affairs, but here I know that part by heart and by heart, so the point is that a special police unit, in accordance with Article 35(2), is used to support the crime police, the property security unit, etc. and, on that occasion or in that case, and in accordance with Article 40(4) of the Director or Director of the Police Administration, activates a special police unit and does not need the consent or approval of the Minister. 63 Of course, when it comes to paragraph 3. then he says that this unit can be used to support the cantonal MUPs, which requires a procedure within which, at the request of the cantonal MUP, the director of the Police Administration, the minister also proposes to approve of its use. So the point is, the situation here is quite clear. It's about the use of a police unit, a special one, which provides support for the federal M.P.P.D.'s crime. And as far as that goes, it's quite evident that it's a legal use of a special police unit. I'm convinced of that. I, however, want to point out here, that fortunately a special police unit has assisted and there was no need for her operational action, which is good, above all for the arrestees themselves. I, indeed, do not understand why these items in Article 35(2), (3) and (4) are used not only by our commission but also by the minister of justice, who gave this interpretation, so I assume that the commission has been defined between the positions of the Federal Ministry of Police and the BiH Court for the position of the minister of justice. I won't, of course, comment, but it's clear to everyone that the minister is a political person and as far as the Director of the Police Department is concerned, I believe he acted in accordance with the law. In other words, I have to say here the MUP of the Herzegovic-Neretva Canton and it seems to me that this is in a certain sense and an attempt to answer the question asked by a respected colleague Filipović. Therefore, the MUP of the Herzegovina-Neretva Canton and the MUP of the Western Herzegovina Canton, i.e. County, or the relevant police administration, primarily Mostar Police Administration, for more than a year, from some time to January 8th or from 21st 2002 to 2003, failed to deliver a call to the subjects of the arrestees, or to ensure their response to an interview with the authorised employees of the Federal MUP. In such a situation, it is quite understandable that the Director of the Federal Police Department's procedure, because if he had notified his colleagues in advance in the cantonal MUPs, I am personally convinced that the action would not have succeeded. It may seem cynical to you, but I'm going to ask a public question behind this pay phone. How could the cantonal MUP, i.e. the relevant police administration, for a year have not been able to find Mr Jelavić, Prc and Rupčić, and the criminal police and special forces of the Federal MUP, along with Italian... SFOR specialists suddenly find and bring all three of them in line with the BiH Court of Justice's order, and at the request of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. If happiness had been as, unfortunately, probably not been, our commission and all of us envoys would have asked here a question of the responsibility of the MUP of the Herzegovic-Neretvanso Canton and the Ministry of the West-Herzegovina Canton, and would not have tried to find a "hair in the egg" director of the Federal MUP police. The management of a special police force in order to support the criminal police, I repeat, has been carried out legally, based on Article 35(2) and Article 40(4). The BiH Federation's internal affairs law. In addition to other organised crime, Article 2(1) shall apply. The Internal Affairs Act, which was mentioned, also seems to me to be colleagues Šiljegović and Mr Ilija Filipović and Article 3. Law amending and supplementing the Supreme Court Act. Whether the arrestees of Mr Jelavić, Prce and Rupčić, i.e. fugitive Azinović and suspected Rakić, are involved in organised crime, which is inconceivably the relevance of the Federal MUP, will rule on appropriate court cases. The verdict has no right to our commission and we envoys and neither does the Minister of Justice of the Federation of BiH. And even if I don't point out the issue of organised crime, for the action of the Federal Ministry of Police, that is, its administration, the foundation and Article 21(2) are sufficient. The law on criminal proceedings, which was quoted by counterpart Šiljegović, who clearly and unequivocally prescribes the duties of all authorities in official co-operation with the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office and other bodies participating in the criminal proceedings, completed the quote. This must not be ignored by our commission or by us. When the BiH Court, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office, requests, or orders, the Federal MUP or any other body of the BiH administration, to carry out a particular action in accordance with the law, who may refuse to do so. I don't think anybody does. What would really be if the police director refused, God forbid to execute the prosecutor's order and the BiH Court, only then would we have to legitimately engage. This is how, as far as I'm concerned, 64 support should be given to all participants in the activities in question of the arrest of Mr Jelavić, Prce and Rupčić, and I have no dilemmas there, and when the overall process is over, use appropriate mechanisms, which predict protection, especially in the part in which human rights violations are suspected, etc. What to say about our commission's claim that it does not exist, I quote: "If there was no danger of the escape of the arrested or justified suspicion of the execution of the crime, for which they would continue to be held in custody." What does this mean for distinguished colleagues of the Committee? For example, you are not responsible for assessing the degree of danger from escape, the possibility of committing a crime, and justifiable detention and detention. The BiH court is relevant, but you and all of us here don't. I remind you that one of those who should have been arrested by the three generals Mr. Azinović is still on the run today. How can you claim that Jelavic, Prce and Rupčić wouldn't have run away if they could and knew what was waiting for them. And why is the fifth suspect, Mr. Ignjac Rakić not arrested? So simply because the M.O.P.H.K., or the police department in my Capljina, found him, gave him a call, an interest with the federal M.O.P. crime inspectors, the man responded neatly, it's normal to defend himself from freedom. It would be the same with an arrest troika if it were the local police and they acted as Mr. Radik themselves. I'm convinced of that. We need to ask that investigation committee. He was supposed to investigate. What to say about the final position of our committee, which accepts the statement of the arrester Rupčić about the inhumane conduct of the song to him during the arrest. Is this statement enough to conclude? Where's the other side? What is the concrete content of inhumanity other than this barefoot 100 meters, etc. Guys, arresting is a technical job, not easy at all, not nice, not for those who do it, especially for those who are object, not to say subject to arrest. Besides, there's a video record. The prosecutor, or the BiH Court of Justice, has the video, so if there are human rights violations at any stage of the arrest, it is their duty to sanction the proceedings, possibly responsible. There is a problem, if our commission had the opportunity to gain insight, they would probably have a different view of all this. Of course, while respecting the fact that, here, we have been working long and that patience is near the end, I and, of course, respecting all this documentation, which I didn't want to bring here, that I don't spend any more time, my conclusions are as follows: (a) The commission, of course not only by its own fault, has unequivocally established a factual state, because there was no real parliamentary investigation, have been left behind, for example, conversations, insight into video records, etc. And there are other technical and other things. b) The commission has been unilaterally defined as one side, in cases of different interpretations by individual authorities of the administration, the Federal Ministry of Police and the Court of BiH, on the one hand, and the Federal Ministry of Justice on the other hand. The Commission, it was clearly not unanimous in determining a larger number of conclusions. Then, the report by the Commission does not sufficiently reflect the coverage of information from documents obtained by administrative and judicial authorities and at the end of the long run, Parliament should not be involved in the process for which the executive and judicial bodies are relevant, as this is the basic democratic standard of every normal rule of law. Based on everything I've said, I can't accept our commission's report with all the understanding I have for the weight of his work, for his efforts and for certain results. I'll probably be lonely in that, but I appreciate that it would be a good idea for us all to learn from this together, and that as Parliament, we no longer go into these situations as a result of the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3040	Who else wants to talk? Mr. Čengić, come in. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3041	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I agree with the assessments already said here that the work of this committee was both responsible and, given the scope of the material required. This is seen, therefore, that much time has been spent, in part in the collection of documents, and in part in the analysis of the documentation, as it appears that the documentation and information available to the Commission was offered were such that in certain segments and in certain issues, all the members of the Commission could not agree. It is completely understandable to me, given the fact that it is an arrest, given the fact that it is something that is subject to grades and what is a aspect of legality, but also a aspect of human rights. I still feel as I did when the debate was in this committee, that it was necessary to establish, I still believe that this home and both homes of this assembly have the right to discuss these issues and to discuss when they appear and I believe that this is a democratic obligation in democratic states. On the other hand, it is obvious that we have a situation where there are "two busy positions" and under the quotes "two truths". On the one hand, those who have made decisions and who, of course, believe that their decisions were correct, and the arguments offered by them were both hard and, on the other hand, those who were not or were not involved in the process, who felt that they should have been involved or those who had been neutral until then. So they weren't on either side, so they took a stand based on the information available. Let me be here a little direct and a little personal. I will start with that part of the information in this report, which concerns the personal statement of one of the two arrested in which he describes the way he was deprived of his freedom and in a statement he made in custody. So, this man sits in prison at this time, in the folk dictionary told, neither he nor any of us know the fate of a process that can be completed in a short time with a favourable, and can be very unfavorable and in such circumstances psychologically does not have a second position, but that he nevertheless describes what happened to him during the arrest. And I, at this point for reasons I know very well, give the trust of his testimony that he gave in the investigation, so, while he's still in the investigation. I'll be very clear, '83. In Stoc, not Mostar at 4:30, I was woken up by the communist police and arrested. There wasn't a camera back then, but it was a photo aprarat. There were three people in a civilian and several other officers who surrounded that house where I lived at that time. They did a room search, of course they woke me up, I was in my pajamas, like the gentleman mentioned and asked me to get dressed, because I should go with them. I was asked to wear shoes. So, I was in Stoc, not Mostar, that was 21 years ago. I was in a regime that I considered absolutely non-democratic, one-party regime, the regime in which the police conducted decisions, in my opinion, policy decisions, not the police, and yet I was allowed to wear shoes that I, of course, needed. So when nothing else would happen, this is enough to show one aspect of behavior, which can't have anything to do with respect for dignity. I no longer question legality, nor do I enter a formal question of respect for human rights, but a person who is innocent to justice, in conditions that have been very simple with more than 20 people armed, trained, who have surrounded an unarmed person, therefore, forced barefoot to go from his apartment to his family, without even one reason, without a real possibility to escape both barefoot and shoes, so it's not about the needs of protection and security, insurance of the process, but rather about something else. Here, I hold it to be one of the jobs that was important to this commission to determine. 66 Secondly, it is interesting that this case in terms of investigating this work of our commission has been following some strange circumstances such as, for me personally, breaking information about the Commission's position before the Commission's position has been officially delivered to the competent authorities of the House. So, Mr. Secretary of the Federal Police gave no answer to this case. If I remember correctly in that conversation we had about this, he was said to have officially stated that he was not aware of the activity, therefore, as the Minister of the Federal Ministry of Interior, under which the structures, which carried out the arrest including the Director of the Police Administration, including the special police, had no information that this would happen. It doesn't matter if he knew the details, but he didn't even have any elementary information at the time until the police minister, who's doing the job, he doesn't know it, someone made sure that by relying on communications with certain media, they denunciate, break-ins, discourage and diminish the commission's efforts. The sledeći thing, of course, he was inadmissible in no way, let alone in the rule of law, and I want to believe that BiH is already in the status of a relatively good organisation of the rule of law, it is inadmissible to make a year-long call that cannot be delivered. If I'd been to the Commission and this committee any way you want, one of the questions I'd definitely be asking is this. Who is directly responsible for one, five, or ten persons, who are responsible for not making calls for a year? I also ask the Court of BiH this question, I also ask the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and make the following conclusion. If you don't mind, this is a political misjudgement, everyone involved from the bottom to the top were inconclusive in the job, because in a year of the process of handing over each of the three people who were then deprived of freedom could have escaped several times each day. I'm making the next conclusion out of this. And the date or way of making the decision had a certain political omen. If it wasn't, why didn't it happen before? It is unacceptable for someone to make fun of the BiH state's legal system for a year, by making calls. Who's the one who made that happen is responsible? Who are the ones who made it possible? They're responsible. Therefore, the following is unreal, unseriously seeking responsibility from domestic institutions, and bypassing a number of institutions and individuals in those institutions and those who, by the way, have passed each individually more of the professions of checking and obtaining consent to those jobs. So, please, if someone checks out, so we all know that we've had a two-by-three return to the candidate's proposal, even for the federal police minister, that it's possible that people who have received the commission don't carry out the task of delivering, the task of notifying, the task of, let's say, bringing in a conversation with an investigative judge. And that they should not be punished until this day and that they should not be called even then. It's the creation of a space where certain ministers are similar to having information, and other certain ministers, even on a higher level of state authority, are not alike to know it. We heard here that the security minister said he didn't know, that Prime Minister BH had not known about this issue that the federal minister had said he didn't know, etc. and that some others knew about it. So, this is obviously the creation of an environment, in which in the structure of handling this type of business in the BiH state institutions and individuals who have received the consent to do the job are systematically avoided and others preferred. If this is added to avoid often higher levels and preferred lower levels of structure, then gentlemen are about opening up a space for police, political police, so political police and for creating uncertainty instead of creating security of legal order and the rule of law. Obviously, someone has had a tendency to cause an impression of uncertainty or the impression that certain structures can do and enforce the law, and some others, which are precisely responsible cannot be involved in this. That brings us all together into what I've been against and what I'm going to be against. And that is, by political methods, we judge behavior and actions and use the police in a way that is, above all, politicizing. That, in my opinion, is 67 unacceptable. If you want to speak plainly, I believe this is a significant failure of this commission, which did not point to this fact. And that is the position of Parliament, that is the position of this House and we cannot remain silent about it. It's inadmissible for someone to train hardness and after a year something can't be done, then it's just all done in one day. That I do not call into question the next example of a group that was detained in Sarajevo last year, accused of some kind of terrorism in time and invited to one conversation, on the other, to a third interview with an investigative judge and on one of these talks politely deprived of freedom. During the talks, they were informed that they had been deprived of their freedoms and were taken into custody. After a year of detention, they were released, the process has never begun, the indictment has never begun, those who have done so by then do not bear any responsibility or political or legal nor any, but remains one impression that the case of Bakir Alispahić and others remains very clear, but remains one impression that some groups can be detained from an investigative conversation, in one way that is normal, which is common, and some others are being brought into apartments at night and using massive force. This is what must not be the sound of our legal system, as it is unacceptable for anyone, anyone, to be outside the reach of the legal system, by procedure and finally. Whether there was a direct violation of the laws and human rights, I still have the impression that one other and more professional behavior than any other competent structure could have been the arrest of persons suspected of committing crimes, and which today is the case, in a way that shouldn't have been like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3042	I thank Mr. Čengić. I give my word to Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3043	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, so I have no intention here to enter any dialogue, nor to give answers to all the opposite views, which we have heard in relation to what I said and what Mr. Šiljegović said. But I would, however, look back with a few words compared to what I heard from my esteemed colleague Čengić, who I think is quite rational, that he's both critical and thought about the whole thing and in one very good way received one of my messages about which I was talking about, that's that five months away, that's just the situation and the very task that the Commission has been dealing with, not one moment, not by any word of my own, not one single sentence in a report to you in the independence of the judicial bodies. So we didn't get into that thing. We were going in the way, in the circumstances of how this arrest happened, here is what Mr. Čengić was talking about in a very nice, pedantic, precise, very rational way and from his point of view because he was experiencing those moments. So we're talking about bringing in and bringing in a person's arrest, whether it was in accordance with the law. I totally understand Mr. Lim. I don't have a different opinion before or after this session. So, there's one rule once a cop always a cop, this was one cop thinking, one ex-cop, so, now he's got contact with that security job and that's it. So, the person who was up until yesterday in those ranks, who can't be clearly different, hasn't come out of that armor yet, she's still, in addition to that Mr. Limov, ma'am nice, for him today started an election campaign, local elections are ahead of us, the lists are surrendering, belongs to the opposition etc. Therefore, it is my right to conclude in this way, because beware, in order to hear all these at all, I have no intention of going from article to article now and telling you what the law has predicted. The law stipulates that the bringing is done through the judicial police, so now that I'm not going back to that elaborate, this is the most drastic measure. I remain free to notice now and in this way, the spectacle of the arrest of the former BiH presidency member, gentlemen, was wanted. The spectacle was wanted by those who directed that spectacle and that spectacle was won. Those who don't understand their problem. But that spectacle was obviously staged since this arrest, and it happened. Please, nice. This investigative committee asked and received 68, we asked the County or the Cantonal Court of Sarajevo, where certain processes of the Lord were being conducted, so they instructed us to ask when they were called and how many times they responded and whether there were times when the Cantonal Court, or the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office, was not answered by the Cantonal Court, the Prosecutor's Office in the overall materials, you could see, not a single call sent by those cases had not happened that certain gentlemen had not responded. So they responded to those items that were conducted at that level. In addition, I must disprove here one untruth, which he said, is not exactly in the information, so these few kilograms that you mentioned, Mr. Limov, I have here one material of 31.1.2003, signed by Director Miletić, who begs the MUP of the Herzegovic-Neretva Kenton, regrets the hands of the commissioner and the hands of the Commissioner of Crime Police and asks him, says by letter, by letter, by the dispatch 02-02/2-520/03 of the 30th, so the day before 2003, you stated that you had sent written calls to all wanted persons, and you should have provided us with the same time terms of scheduled facial response for the realization of the interior by the officials of this ministry. Please, this was signed by Director Zlatko Miletić, who claims by this act that people in crime police have made calls wanted by the Federal Ministry or the Federal Prosecutor's Office. And now it's 4.22.2003. Zdravko Žilić, a well-known person, Deputy Chief of Crime of the Police of the MUP of the Herzegovic-Neretva County, informs the section of the criminal police department, so he informs the Federation that, we inform you, according to your request, we have sent in speeds to call persons and set dates 6.2.2003. Ante Jelavić at 11, Miroslav Prce 7.2 at 11 and Miroslav Rupčić 10.02 at 11th. So that communication is making calls. It's incorrect information that some aliens were there and that they couldn't have been reached. That's one thing. You said one nebulosis, you said the arrest was a technical question. Well, Mr. Limov, that's a strictly legally prescribed question. I will remind you now, therefore, it is not a technical question, but it is strictly prescribed work, legal work, and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in Article 5, read and follow the text and tell me. Every man has the right to freedom and personal security and no one is to be deprived of liberty except under the procedure prescribed by law. Dake, it's not a technical matter, it's a strictly prescribed legal arrest procedure. So, that's something that I personally had to react to and once again confirm that this investigative commission had one hard job, had one hard job, could be referred to a thousand complaints about the work of our commission in relation to all the weighting of the paper that we got, we estimated that it was enough that we didn't have to call on us not to, and for this reason someone accused us of calling on the President of the Court, do you think that it would come to us... so SFOR didn't want to communicate with Parliament, that's some things that we in this parlamett just might be able to do, and let's not be afraid to tell anyone if it works, and if it doesn't work, if it doesn't break our regulations, and we don't know how, let't be brave to say, this is the Parliament of the state of BiH. So, it's like this, a small one of my humble reactions, because with what you said you said you have the right to say, I'm also connecting it to your emotional relationships with the service you've been working in, because a cop always stays a cop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3044	I thank my colleague Filipović, here we have a replica, Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3045	So I don't need that much. I don't mean to answer at all to this particular thing, I've been trying really to get the political context out of my exposure. Here is Mr Filipović's understanding of it, he has the right to do it, he has the right to be wrong, in my opinion, I have to be wrong by his, therefore, parliamentary speaker and there is an exchange of views that we speak publicly and has a lot of documents, and even the next question when they got the call whether they responded or whether an interview was conducted. In this case, there were several objects. I therefore appreciate that the Commission should have made that clear. The truth is, 69 people, these same people responded to certain objects, but in this particular case, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3046	I thank Mr. Limov. Here, Mr. Velimir Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3047	Well, here, I'll, first of all, give my colleagues a confession. I think they did a good job, which was not easy or simple at all, because the subject itself, or subject, they were dealing with, is in their nature quite complex and I mean in the report that they wrote that they were well balanced and that they tried in the most appropriate way to say what was really most important, and these are facts. Of course, I would like to be happier and happier if these points where Commissioner Osman Brka was against such an explanation, I wish that it wasn't, and especially if what is said here is facts, because we can't be against the facts. If they are true, then we must treat them as such and accept them, to compare whether they are in accordance with the law and one thing that is here, that is my thesis, my thinking, which is going through all this together, is that everyone is obliged to respect the law in this country and the prescribed procedure, and also the authorities in this country at all levels. And here in this report, it is very interesting that some bodies of the institution of the government, the institutions of the system did not cooperate or cooperate properly with the Research Breeding. I do not think it is a good practice, I believe that this commission and its work are one step forward in Parliament's work, Parliament has the right and obligation to deal with investigations, study cases like this and some other phenomena, etc. and I think it is an opportunity here to discuss all these problems and failures and, in particular, to point out the obligation of all the institutions of the government to cooperate with Parliament, to provide information that may be that information, i.e. which can be made real conclusions, i.e. certain observations, or ultimately certain conclusions. I'm particularly angry when I see that there were no answers from some ministries. I don't know, I think it's a major failure. I don't think that should happen in the future. My thinking of why this was done, the arrest said here in a spectacular way. Did it have to be like that? I'm not convinced it had to be and I'm not convinced there was any simpler and more appropriate way. The investigation committee has been exposed to a great trap all along, and this is to interfere with the independence of the prosecution and the judiciary, and I think it has been very successful for that part of its work to be resolved, and it has not fallen into that trap and they have focused precisely on what has been defined as the main task of this commission, to determine whether there has been a failure in the process of arresting freedom and whether there has been violations of human rights and freedom. I believe that what was the main subject of observation, that it was found that there were these failures, I'm reading it from this one that was found with this material and I don't think we should ask for justification because someone violated the procedure, the regulation, and because it compromised the human rights of the arrestees. I am tired that we as Parliament must be committed to strengthening the institutions of the state and the institutions of the rule of law. There were also some counter-indictions here, presented by Mr Limov and that is the quality of our debate and that is the quality of work in Parliament. I also agree with Mr Čengić, if there were any failures, so people's names and last names, it should be determined, if so, etc. And not for someone else's sake, I don't know if we can close our eyes and see if there have been violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and if there's been a violation of the non-compliance procedure by the law of the prescribed procedure for devoting certain people, etc. 70 So I'm appealing here, calling us to objectivity and correct judgment based on facts. Here, in order not to prolong, my little throat is teasing me, I really think that, I'll repeat, that the Commission has done a good and quality job and that this report, which is quite correct. I think it is all visible and clear from it and this debate we also think is a new quality in the work of our Parliament, because I will repeat my basic thought and thesis, Parliament is and must in the future be even more of a place where in an open, democratic debate and atmosphere we will talk about all the problems and phenomena in our society, condemn what is not good, explore how, what is right and commend, etc. And no one here should be angry with anyone who thinks differently or who thinks otherwise, etc. So it's up to us to talk about it, and everyone will have their opinions and opinions, and yet we make certain things and decisions again in a prescribed way. Therefore, all that is in line with this re-established decision-making procedure will be a decision, conclusion and attitude, etc. And vice versa, which is not for the most, and there will be no. Here, I'd like to conclude with this. I think, however, once again this commission has done the most important job, and at the end of the commission I didn't expect, nor has it been realistic to expect anything that they are assessing whether and to what extent someone is guilty or right, I mean from the people that are being arrested, or detained, etc. So, I focused on the precise drinking, and I think that this is where our work has been well done, but, here, I will repeat what concerns me, I am concerned about the fact that there are still institutions and individuals in this country who would like to... the authorities not to cooperate enough with Parliament, and I think that this is not good enough and that we will need all of this to be warned, it is my personal position, all of which is to warn you that we will not enjoy all the benefits of democracy, because in the world it is said that this is a temple of democracy and that is the way it should be in BiH, as long as it is not so, I am confident, and I assure you that we will not enjoy all the benefits of democracy, and therefore again I think that it is good to talk about everything and especially in the Parlment, and then, of course other institutions will do their work, the Prosecution will do their work, their work, the Court, etc. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3048	I thank my colleague Jukić. The word came from Mr. Branko Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3049	Mr. President, I welcome you members of the College and all my colleagues present at this session, and it's probably pointless to say what I'm about to say, but my first perception, or a few of my perceptions, is already said after this report. My first perception was the defense of every man's dignity and the right... of every man, no one's guilty until he's convicted. The prem here with all the other stories, which is unfortunately the everyday phenomenon in our jargon, has become the standard of our language are meaningless and I think that in that purpose, exclusively in that intention and functions every commission formed in Parliament and that in this best intention is formed and commission, the investigation committee in our Parliament, and in the context of the case that we have mentioned. So, in this context, I don't think we can speak in any other direction, because the process, this investigation process itself, was complex enough, first of all because of the need for absolute deviation from everything that the institution is obliged to do, from everything that is the obligation of the judicial authorities, the rest is all for verification, is for discussion. I absolutely agree with my colleague, Brk, who, not until the end, who trusts the institutions of this state. I trust them as well. If I didn't trust them, then I wouldn't even be sitting in the state parliament. So I'm in their plane, they're in mine. They're just the ones who spend what I'm sitting here for. It is not the problem of our country's institutions, it is the problem of individuals in these institutions, the problem of disrespecting the essential relations of the institution with the institution, or individuals from one institution to another 71. The problem is disrespecting the subordination on which the entire system rests. First, the report we received at that session when this case happened is actually a confirmation of this attitude. There can't be anything happening in a country that doesn't know the top, they tried and tried to cover up at the highest level what was going on, unfortunately, in Iraq, where human rights were violated in the most brutal way. However, a little bit from the media to the individuals, where the investigation slightly ends. There with those who had to know about what was going on, or everything that was going on, everything that was going on. Secondly, I'm like a man injured and it was my first perception of an attitude that simply offends or simply skips what's so obvious, which is clearly to drag, it doesn't matter whether it's ten, whether it's five, whether it's one meter or what's 100 meters, it's absolutely irrelevant. No Niko has the right to bring anyone in at that time from his own home, from his own home which is his and can't be anyone else's, who is absolutely protected by every legal act in every country and because of such procedures and the possibilities of such proceedings and because of the people who are and can and can do so, therefore and there are people in my conventions on the right of man. If it wasn't for that, if it wasn't happening, then we wouldn't need conventions. Respect for the convention is respect for man, regardless of the position he found himself in. There are positions when you shoot, but it's a street conflict, it's actually a film story, which we usually watch on small screens. This is not the case here, and if nothing else, that, that act is sufficient reason to form such a committee that we are not talking about anything at all, and we are not talking about anything else anymore. Secondly, it is incomprehensible for me as Parliamentarian that someone is seeking, simply that Parliament does not form, that Parliament should give up this way of working on the formation of the commission, that is, reacting to all the negativity, not just these, to all the negativity that is happening around us, that is happening in our institutions, that is happening on our streets, that no one can ask for. Parliament has a right and it must fulfil that task. I am absolutely satisfied with the work of this committee, by their communication with all the members of this Parliament, by the apparition that they have made, each one has a vision and each one can evaluate it as he wishes both by his own knowledge and by his own understanding of democracy at the end of the day. We don't all have democracy the same way. I was in a similar situation as Mr. Hasan, so I know what it is, and I know what I'm saying, and that's why democracy is sacred to me. After all, colleagues and gentlemen, on these principles where I speak, modern European democracy rests, modern European states rest, modern European societies and our very essence of our work is that we also achieve these goals, that we come also to the position of modern, democratic, European society, and democratic society is, in fact, the democratic relationship and the right of every human being. I'm sorry, I said, I'm sorry, I probably didn't say much, or I probably didn't say anything, but I had to say, but you know, when a dozen of us come forward, we still talk about one material, then perceptions are always closer to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3050	Thank you, colleagues, for the Zrn. I don't see any reports here. Mr. brkati's picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3051	...I hope I don't have much time, because I'm a little bit called, I picked up a little when Mr. Jukić spoke, you didn't hear, and it doesn't matter. 72 In fact, I am the last man on the globe, it seems to me that I would endanger someone's human rights, which every human being on earth should have and enjoy and, indeed, I think that here I have acted on my full conscience, in fact respecting the democratic self-respects that need to rule in a democratic country. For me, who am a member of this House, the institutions of this country need to be something that I must respect. Because I'm involved in this personally as Mr. Zno says. And if the largest institutions and officials in the largest functions in this country, I think our member of Parliament is making a decision, I have to respect that decision until I see that it should be different. And I'll see that it's different when court cases say it's wrong or it's not wrong. I'm not capable of it, based on those arguments, which were presented to me to find out. In fact, from all this discussion that I'm from, in which I'm present, in which I'm actually involved, it's changed to whether it was ethnically done, whether it was human, whether it was moral when I was arrested. Me with a view to making it the most moral thing that can be done in the world, but here is something else important, it matters if it's legally done. Let's leave it ethically, and I need someone to answer that I have my own attitude. I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, I don't know if it's legal. But if the law is respected, then I have nothing. Someone didn't act morally, it's up to him, but if he did do it legally, then we put morale into another plan, it's loco, and there wouldn't be this story at all, every day you have an arrest, Bog knows what kind of arrests he has, and no one about these arrests to others, when I say Bog knows what he's got, he doesn't talk. There's talk of this now, because these are high-ranking officials. So, we're bringing again, it seems to me to be in an unequal position for the rest of the detainees in this country, I don't know how to get arrested. I was lucky I wasn't in Hassan's skin, in Zrna's skin, and I wasn't arrested, but me, I'm talking about breaking up morality and law and law, because if we're just gonna talk about it, then it's something else. I went to it to be, to the institutions of this state to respect the law. I didn't want to take much time, to present a lot of arguments, he said a lot to Mr. Limov, no matter what Mr. Filipović said, but I think I did it completely morally on my part, and I'm tired of getting into it until the court says my own, and there's probably gonna be a lot to write about, a lot to talk about, and I've been obliged to say it here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3052	I thank Mr. Brk. Here, no more reporting for discussion. We here have a report from the Commission, afterwards, after the address of Mr Filipović, a member of this committee, we have received another addition to this conclusion. Now I have one dilemma, should we vote on the report first, then plus the supplement or together. As far as I understand it, there have been some conclusions in the consideration but no one has suggested another conclusion on that, if I understand correctly. I will now open the vote, therefore, on the Commission's report. So we can start voting now. The vote was nine, abstention two, versus two. Someone didn't vote. Nothing, we won't shoot him for it, we'll respect it. Since we know that he did not vote from counterpart Čengić, he now pleads abstention and 3 we have abstentions and it is fine. So we have 9 in, 2 against, 2 abstentions. I find this report adopted. We are now voting on the completion of the conclusion proposed by Mr Filipović. Is there any need to read it? There's no need. There is. Here, the secretary will read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3053	It is recommended that the House, by considering and accepting this report, submit the full report to the relevant institutions at the state, federal and county level, in order to detect the failures, in particular those for whom they have been illegally arrested, take appropriate measures and determine the individual responsibilities of all those who in particular have violated the law and 73 acted outside their powers, and take the necessary activities and initiatives to amend and supplement the legal provisions, in order to meet the future majority of the FMUP special unit, the necessary legal requirements and protect every person in BiH from being deprived of liberty in an illegal manner. Request all state and entity and institutions of the Brcko District of BiH, strictly respect the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and their direct application without exception.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3054	I thank the secretary. I'm opening a vote on this conclusion. You have a comment, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3055	I don't think we should put this home in a position to talk about illegal arrest, so we're judges. I don't think we should be judges. If you think we should be okay, I don't think we should be judges whether it was legal or illegal.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3056	I don't have any applications for discussion and I have no choice but to put this to the vote again, and with this vote, we can give the court a ruling on this proposal. So at this point, I'm opening a vote on this conclusion. We have 8 for, 2 abstentions, versus 4. This conclusion has been adopted. We move to 34th point in the last of our session today. Ad.34. Information on the state of external duty on 31.12.2003. You received the information, was delivered for the purpose of informing the House. That's the only goal, then. The House of Representatives received information at its 36th session. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm guessing no one answered for the hearing. I thank you for your patience with Mr. Kumalić, who was waiting for this last item of the agenda. No, I didn't prozo you. I thank you for your patience. So we didn't have any applications for discussion. We've read about it. I'm now opening a vote on this agenda point. So, who's to get the information to know? I find that information on the state of external duty on 31.12.2003 was received to the knowledge of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope you don't mind, today is my first official session, and we've been working all day, so the concentration's dropping. For asking to vote on this. Ad.35. The balance of staff in BiH institutions This point is included in the agenda, at the request of delegate Boško Šiljegović, at the conclusion of the House from the 21st session of the House of Peoples. It was asked by the Council of Ministers to provide information on the balance of personnel in BiH institutions. The Council of Ministers delivered it and, behold, I am now opening a debate. So my colleague Boško Šiljegović answered and I give him my word. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3057	Thank you, President, I know we're all tired, but based on the delegate's question and the conclusion of the House of Peoples, I've prepared and I'll give the members of the College. On the occasion of a report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the balance of staff according to the national principle, and on the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, from the 20th session of 6.44.2004, I have the following remarks concerning. I will accept the variant that we may be discussing at the next session, but I want you to note these remarks and to discuss the report that should be read for half a day. 1. The proposer of this material did not take care that a mandate was expired in certain bodies of the Council of Ministers, head of state servants. For example. The BiH institution's Joint Affairs Service, where the director of Srbin and Deputy Director Bošnjak expired on 20 December 2003 and were included in the table and if they are not re-appointed, no election and appointment contest has been called, side of the tenth table. 2. The BiH archive, the director of the Croatian Archives, has relieved the duties of the Council of Ministers and is in the table. Appointing contest and two deputy directors have been called and ended in 2002, but have not been appointed to date. No national balance has been respected for other civil servants, by the 9th and 10th tabled by 50% Bošnjak 50% of Srbin. These are serious remarks to that report. 3. The BiH Election Commission did not respect the national representation of the constituent peoples in BiH. Namely, from 43 filled jobs, there are 23 Bošnjak, 8 Hrvat, 5 Srbin, pages 8 and 9 of the table. 4. The agency for the state service did not respect the national representation of 13 filled posts on 8 Bošnjak, 2 Hrvat and 2 Srbin. In addition, there are three Bošnjak at the workplace of the head of the internal organisation unit, no Hrvat or Srbin. Page 9 of the table. 5. The Institute for Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH has completely violated the principle of national representation, both state officials and other officials and employees. Page 7 of the table. Six. The Office for Legislatives has not yet implemented the selection and appointment procedure of the Director of the Office, which has the status of the Secretary with a special task to be specified in the table, as it has not been stated, while for all other management state officials who have that status are listed. The director should be of the order of the Serb people, given that the other two permanent bodies of the Council of Ministers have been appointed Bošnjak, director of the Directorate for European Integration and Hrvat, the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. Page 6 of the table. The BiH Statistics Agency is not appointed director and deputy director, and if the competition is over in 2003, it still insists on a management board that no longer exists by adopting this law on statistics. On page 7 of this table. 8. The Veterinary Office, the Secretary, does not have the status of a secretary with a special task as indicated. That's not true. Nine. The tabela should be completed by the Intelligence and Security Agency, where the director of Bošnjak, the deputy director of Srbin and the chief inspector of Hrvat, and the Council of Ministers at the 60th session of 24.6th adopted a Regulation on the internal organisation of this agency. Ten. The table should be deleted by consultants because they are not civil servants. 11. There's no record of the Agency for Labour and Employment. 12. There's no innovative data for the Department of Civil Affairs. The conclusion is that the Council of Ministers is asked to specify and specify the report in a way that clearly separates national representation in the positions of government officials, the special table and the positions of other civil servants in addition to these shortcomings that I... I'll accept that we're not discussing this today. I'll deliver to the College, maybe in some subsequent period around the Regulatory Agency, we'll specifically address them, because their national representation is 40% of Bošnjak, Hrvat 11%, Srbin 18%, others and those who don't want to declare 31%, and we'll say that these groups are higher, so we'll see. We'll take a special note of that. I accept we're considering this at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3058	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Mr. Halid Genjac called, I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3059	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, at the end of today's session as soon as possible, I would first of all like to thank the Council of Ministers for this information and Secretary General Ćosić, who probably played one of the key roles and very up-to-date... information. It's important that this information, as initial information, we have a number of reasons. First, for the reason that a large number of BiH institutions have been established. We have passed the necessary laws, but the second step, which is also necessary to meet the conditions of the feasibility study, which is the functioning of these institutions, does not work for those reasons, because not everyone who needs to be there is employed. The second reason why we have received this information is that it is very often flat-rate and I would say by various arches and for various needs it speaks of the representation of staff and employees in BiH institutions. Sometimes it is said, depending on the speaker, that it is too many Srbin, sometimes it is said that the Bošnjak have all taken place, sometimes it is said that the Hrvat is somewhere much, somewhere little, etc. For the first time, however, I would say that we have the opportunity to at least in one material that is intrinsically lacking, we have the initial information that we see, however, that these stories very often do not have complete justification. 76 For these reasons, and respecting the remarks which this material is suffering and which it will probably still be, I think it would be good to leave 15 days of time for all clubs to submit their comments to this text, to request further information from the Council of Ministers, clarifications where they are not clear positions and that the Council of Ministers responds to that information within a certain period of time. Of course, I think it should be kept in mind that the BiH Constitution and the Council of Ministers' Law have clearly laid down the principles of representation for officials, ministers, deputies and secretaries and the Secretary-General. On the other hand, the Law on Civil Service in BiH institutions and the Law on Administration, as system law in the field of administration, and the Law on Ministry and other bodies of the management of state officials, other civil servants and employees in the bodies of administrations and administrative organisations lay down one principle and for officials of other principles. For one, the principle of national speculation is in a way of equal representation, for another is the principle according to the last census. I think it should be taken into account when considering these reports, but I think in general that, since it is a large number of data, a large number of institutions, it is necessary for each club to further consider that before the remarks, ask questions, formulate these questions, and I think it would be good to give some 15-day period, and afterwards to the Council of Ministers to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3060	I'd like to thank my colleague Genc. I think he made a constructive, comprehensive proposal. I don't see any more reports. I suggest we agree with this conclusion proposed by Mr. Genjac, that within 15 days all clubs will deliver their suggestions and suggestions. He wants Mr. Boško Šiljegović and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3061	I ask the College and the Secretary of the House that these remarks I have read, which are concrete, to be delivered to each other club, i.e. Hrvat and Bošnjak, and if they have their comments to direct us.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-06-29-0.u3062	Okay, I thank and conclude the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session was completed at 7:55 p.m.
