ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14574	Dear MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 43rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the Service report, I find that the session is attended by 37 representatives. From Federation 26 and RS 11. We have a quorum and we can work hard and decide. You ladies and gentlemen received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. Just before the session, we held a session of the Extended College. We only have one suggestion. I ask you to respect it, that because of the vastness of the agenda, the opportunity to work in two days and the fact that, during today, the President of the Soviet Bank will address Dom. Today, we do not have a second item on the agenda for parliamentary questions and answers. Everything else would be the same. So this is determined by consensus on the extended college, but here I am opening a debate if there is a need for the agenda. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14575	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, we have delivered the proposal of an additional item of the agenda, respecting all that you have said, we accept such a decision. However, we, in accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which should leave the possibility of establishing the policy guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions, have proposed a resolution, which should be put into the meeting today, according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if you've got that resolution. It is, in fact, that earlier, it is a resolution bearing the name of a resolution on the ban on sending all BH military and police formations to missions abroad to adopt appropriate legislation and activities in this area. Two months ago, two months ago, in both homes, the SDP MPs' Club sent a law on the engagement of members of the BiH Armed Forces, police officers and members of civil protection and civil servants and deputies on international peacekeeping missions abroad, as well as the stationing and deployment of foreign armed forces of police and officials in missions on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. 2 Given that lately, after two months, the law was not yet before parlament, and knowing that, from the means of information, the BiH Presidency, without any consultation before parlament, made a decision to send our military mission to Iraq, thus sending the BiH presidency, practically decided without the appropriate law and led us to the position that it was unclear in which the mission frameworks take place, among other things, to send military formations to countries with which we do not even have diplomatic relations. So, we are in this savjetlo, I would ask the Service to share with the MPs the text of the resolution, because the resolution, first of all, is aimed at today's session of Parliament, perhaps not today, so I suggest that this goes as a point 27 in the hope and expectation that we will work tomorrow, so, if it is necessary, Selim Bešlagić, Jozo Križanović and I are willing to take part in parallel, if we should take part in the work of the commission, when you assess for security and foreign policy, for finance and the budget, to adopt an appropriate resolution, which would practically demonstrate the willingness to regulate within the shortest time period of time this area, in which the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions and the Presidency, to repeal its earlier decisions on sending, in particular, the matter of sending our army to Iraq, but at the same time to show that we need and to help in other matters. to help and to help countries such as Iraq and that resolution, when you see it, you will see what it is, as well as to show this resolution practically preparedness, for SFOR to be inherited by the European military here, but that the treaty on this is ratified by Parliament, as is the case in every country in the world. Otherwise, as Parliament, we practically agree that this country is still under occupation, which is technically not true. So I would ask that this resolution be divided. To be placed in line with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda of 27th, and to be heard by us tomorrow about this resolution and to give guidance, guidance and everything that the Presidency needs, the Council of Ministers, the competent ministries, and not to add any further. So, Mr Raguž, today we expect Parliament to prohibit sending troops anywhere outside, until it is legally arranged, and in particular, it is currently Iraq and it is not a matter of one or more parties, it is a matter of Parliament in every country.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14576	Thank you. Is there anyone else around the agenda? If he doesn't want to, then I'm the one who concludes the debate. Dear Mr. Lagumdžija, I completely resect the content of your reasoning and personally as chairman, I think it's a question that needs to be found, in which form, it's a second question and when in the House's session. But I think that today, really, given that we had a precise agenda, that we had an extended college, right before the session, that we at the extended college weren't familiar with the request, that we didn't have a resolution at this point. My personal opinion and I can't take the responsibility of having a quality debate today, but that doesn't mean we don't have to find a form to discuss your initiative, I don't think we're arguing about it. I think we need to learn in some way that we respect both procedure and order. But if there is a need, we can forward it to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 121(2) of the Competent Commission, which will prepare a debate for the next session. It's my suggestion, and I think it's a correct relationship with the initiative and according to the request. Because, look, even the MPs today are not prepared to quality-ready discuss such a significant issue, which I agree, there should be a consensus within all political structures and parties in BiH. 3 We really don’t have the conditions to conduct a quality discussion today. Can we do this as a college attitude? In the end, we don't have the wording of the resolution in front of us yet. Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please respect these arguments as well. I think I have offered arguments, so I have not rejected the initiative nor the content, nor the need to discuss it, but we all have a responsibility to have such an important issue of quality debate and you have as a primary and as a applicant of the initiative a responsibility for the representatives to be able to quality-determine the issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14577	I just insist on acting on the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, this point of resolution should be included in the appropriate place and, when it reaches that point of the agenda, the House may decide to send the resolution to the Commission. It's another thing to be, we're serious people, it's serious things. This resolution in itself is reason enough to meet tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or whenever it takes, and not let us decide things this big differently. The acceptance of your proposal, Mr. Chairman, means the practical refusal of the House to declare this. By accepting your proposal means that this home,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14578	Absolutely not, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please don't get... I want to talk about the arguments. Don't call one. I will quote you a second item unless the home decides that it is necessary to consider it previously to the Commission, this will be decided by this home and I have not ruled out the possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14579	Clearly, Mr. Chairman, that's how it was done before always. The agenda item was included, and then, when the agenda point came, Dom decided whether to refer to the commission or not. That's one thing. You can now change the way we've worked so far, so immediately let it decide and forward to the commission this home, we need to know who we are here, by forwarding to the commission, means that we have determined that this resolution should come to the agenda in nine months, when dead people from Iraq will be returned by existing decisions, and under the flag of BiH, without this parliament's decision. Here, forward this to the commission and let's know that you've amnested all the decisions you've made so far. We don't mind. But, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to do this, not just according to the Rules of Procedure, one such question requires in every country, that Parliament has a special session dedicated to this, that the president of the Presidency come out to tell us what it is, that the defence minister comes out, that he gives us an assessment, that the foreign minister comes out to tell us what he proposes and what he thinks and that this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14580	That's exactly what I'm looking for. And you, as an applicant of the initiative, should also allow the House's leadership to ensure these conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14581	Two months ago, we were looking for this. We've been waiting two months for this. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14582	Today this is directed, these are arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14583	Clearly, because our law has not been put on the agenda for two months, because two months, the President of the Predsjednišve, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, did not find the defence appropriate to seek Parliament's meeting on this subject. Make your choice any way you want. But we must give very clearly and precisely, yes, what you have proposed means the introduction of practice, under which, without the law, the Presidency of this country can send our people into military missions outside the country and that, without the decision of this parliament, SFOR succeeds the European military force. That's not normal. It's not for us. For whom it is, if for most of them it is, then it will be a legitimate decision of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14584	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, I was the one who concluded the debate, but another Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Novaković came forward, so Mr. Potočnik. Please, for a moment. I am asking you here to use this speaker before we discuss what the Rules of Procedure wants and the need for the Rules of Procedure to respect Mr Lagumdžija and do not use this payphone to teach us all a lesson before we have even opened the debate on the subject and delivered our views. It's not the first time, so I decided on this intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14585	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I, unfortunately, must express my dissatisfaction and disappointment that we at the Enlarged College have even tried to rule out parliamentary issues in order to make this session more effective. However, as usual, we have here the circulation of Mr Lagumdžija and, regardless of what we have introduced, which is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, that every motion for a resolution goes to the competent commission, Mr Lagumdžija performs here as if such is neither the Rules of Procedure nor the practice. Furthermore, it argues that the Presidency, without a decision, has made a decision without law, to refer BiH citizens to peacekeeping operations in Iraq, is neglecting the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the provisions of the Defence Act. So, I do not dispute the need for Parliament to discuss this, but do not argue what is not true, and it is not true that the Presidency has worked beyond its powers. So it worked within its jurisdiction. And, thirdly, well said Mr. Lagumdžija, identify yourself however you like. I have the impression that he's really all about how we're going to give in. Because the chairman of the SDP Club was at the extended college. This was not suggested by the inclusion in the agenda and, as usual, it is not for the reason that the media are now here and that Mr Lagumdžija should have the opportunity to show his concern for BiH citizens. His alleged concern and politicizing. I ask you not to use this, indeed, in a pre-election campaign and to approach the work on the agenda, which has been accepted by the enlarged College, and previously by the College. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14586	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Novaković has the word. Have Mr. Potočnik prepare, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14587	The chairman, fellow MPs, the esteemed guests, I, was first resented that the chairman had come into debate with the motion for a resolution and thus made it possible for the motion to give political speeches here in the assembly. So there's a business opportunity for the resolution to go to the commission and that's what I think we should do. As anyone will interpret why he voted like that, that's the thing that we can later present at press conferences for one or the other, and I didn't answer, because then he would come at odds with what I said in the first sentence. But I answered to point out to Mr Lagumdžija, who obviously does not read the material that before his law entered the parliamentary procedure a law with a similar name and that it is business, therefore, and we must end the procedure with that law. The proposer of this law is me. So with that law when the commission is done, then it's normal for business to enter Mr. Lagumdžija's law. That law also asked me for what Mr Lagumdžija is looking for, which is that Parliament decides to send troops to peacekeeping missions abroad, but that is now a second question. It's not about this subject. So it's not for this part of the agenda. I just called to say that there is such a law, that there are business reasons why the law is not in the process and, on the other hand, I agree that this resolution goes to the commission as well as all the resolutions we've had so far. She's not the first. All the resolutions went to the board. And I don't need Mr. Lagumdžija to interpret what I decide and why I choose when I vote. I do it perfectly well.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14588	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14589	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the issue of sending BiH people to a risky area is the question of Parliament's responsibility and the urgency of the procedure requires that we have this on the agenda. The second issue and security of BiH, related to such a process, does not go into any political and any other debate. I, as an agent, have the right, but also the responsibility to have this item of the agenda urgently in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14590	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Križanović, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14591	... to emphasize, or in some way to replicate that the resolution, in fact, determines the House on certain political issues, gives political guidance, gives political views. 6 Therefore, the reason for the resolution requires a particular political lobby. I don't know what other guy he might be. And, secondly, I think, we are really wasting our time, respecting the Rules of Procedure, we should, in accordance with Article 121, put this on the agenda, so when it comes to the agenda, determine whether the House will accept the resolution in the given text, or whether it is possible to return it to the commission for discussion. We're really wasting our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14592	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14593	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let's say a little self-criticism here, I will take a great shortfall in my work and the work of this House as a position to parliamentary issues, here are two years of work of this Parliament we have failed to seriousise and make it a test for the Council of Ministers and for this parliament to rise above the Council of Ministers and be the right legislative authority of BiH. I think that the great guilt lies with the College, but also with MPs, who, behold, after a year failed to make a proposal for the Rules of Procedure, so I think that the Constitution could be done before that, that Rules of Procedure has not yet come to our turn. I think it is high time we gave the date, and that conclusion with parliamentary questions and answers, until when this House will receive the draft rules of procedure and finally settle these parliamentary issues. That's my suggestion one. I believe the motion two, a resolution proposed by Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija and SDP, has touched on issues that we have been putting on the agenda for several months, foreign policy issues of BiH, the issue of the presidency's relationship to this home and our role in the control of BiH's foreign policy. If you remember, then we said that the Foreign Affairs Commission would, after winning, here we received the 23.8th report on the state of the DKP of BiH, to schedule a agenda point, which will concern BiH's foreign policy. I think that also today day and order to say the date when we're going to put that agenda item here and that we're not constantly getting out, that that's why they need extensive preparations, that's why they need to do it, that I don't know what kind of lobby they're going to be, and that I think it's high time, if this point of Dr. Lagumdžija's agenda comes to put together a date when they're going to be discussed with BiH's foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14594	I thank Mr. Živković. I don't have any more logs. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14595	Mrs. Palavrić and Mr. Novaković mentioned me several times, gave me a political speech, accusing me of giving a political speech. I want you to, for accuracy, just replicate the two things that are said here. They're being expressed as incorrect. 7 The BiH presidency made a decision to send the army to Iraq, in line with the gaps in the law and in line with the lack of law in this region. So if by law everything that has not been settled by law, then they have done so in accordance with the law. Secondly, Mr. Novaković, I quote, "I gave the law with a similar name." We have 16 points in front of us with a similar name. This is indeed a law with a similar name Mr. Novaković gave. Mr. Novaković has given a law that addresses the issue of sending our army out of the country. The law we have proposed resolves the overall issue of sending our military mission, police, officials, participation in missions outside and, on the other hand, what is important for this country is the presence of a foreign military, foreign police, foreign missions in BiH and it is indeed similar, but quite different. The fact that and nothing surprises me, that the SDA and the SDS in the parliamentary procedure in the Commission have constitutionally prevented the SDP law from coming to this parliament, with a similar explanation, and today it has been repeated here. It would be good for you, Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, to put someone on the agenda today, it would be normal for the defence and foreign affairs ministers to participate today in the work of the committees of all parliament to speak to us on this topic in committees, that would be normal. And, I would ask you, if you have no intention of putting this item on the agenda, then I ask the House to declare itself on the conclusion of this, and in that case, respecting this very fact that it will all be settled by law, I would only suggest that the House be declared a single conclusion, which is the first point of the resolution, that the House of Representatives make a decision prohibiting the sending of all military and police forces to foreign missions until the relevant law is passed. And when we reach that conclusion, then I'm sure we'll hurry to pass the right law, very simple.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14596	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik. Please, for a moment. I don't have any more reports, the hearing is closed. We're going to exorcise ourselves according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14597	Mr. Chairman, it does not matter what the position of the SDA, SDP, HDZ or any party is. The issue is the BiH man, and we answer him and the question of sending people to the risk area and the issue of BiH security. We give one discussion as representatives, parliamentarians or MPs, not party representatives. We are here for BiH and the BiH man, not any party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14598	Thank you very much. So, I am concluding the debate and I am staying at the point of view earlier that it is an important issue and to ensure that MPs can obtain relevant information and carry out quality rapsing, in accordance with the business flows, that the House is clear about whether this resolution, in accordance with Rule 121(2) of the Rules of Procedure, will be put on the commission. If we do not decide, then we will go to the agenda today, it is the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure will be respected. Tell Mr. Zorić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14599	Well, Mr. Potočnik. I don't know what this speech is, Mr. Potočnik, but hate speech. It is very important to me what the position of the SDA, what is the position of the HDZ and what is the position of all the political options in this parliament. It is not clear to me that one MP in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly does not matter what political options make up the parliamentary assembly. I can't call this a thing. I can't call it hate speech.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14600	Thank you. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14601	Mr. Zorić, if you understand this as hate, then it is you who hate the contrary. I'm just for construction, for co-operation, for reconciliation, for normal life, and that's why I'm saying that we're responsible for the man in BiH here. razumiti, that's why we're in this House. I didn't say, but it doesn't matter. We answer to a BiH man, not just an individual foreigner.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14602	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the House to state, in accordance with Article 121, that it is necessary for this resolution to be previously followed by all arguments on the complexity of the issue being considered by the Commission. If the House decides positively it will go to the commission stage, if not, let it go to the agenda today, it is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14603	... Rules of Procedure, when that part of the agenda comes, then the House declares it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14604	Please, I'm reading the precise Rules of Procedure. It is the interpretation of the Secretary of the House, who is responsible for interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14605	Since this morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14606	No, that's the way we've always been.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14607	You always put Mr. Chairman in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14608	Mr. Lagumdžija, I respect the Rules of Procedure strictly and respect your demands as well. I ask the House to decide by voting whether this resolution on the collection of all BH military and police formations in a mission abroad until the adoption of appropriate law and activities in the areas submitted by the SDP Club should be considered in advance. Please state that. 9 Vote now. So, with 22 votes to, 13 against, four abstentions. 14 from the Federation, 8 from the RS. The House accepted the conclusion that this resolution was referred to a preliminary examination within the Commission. I hereby declare the agenda adopted because there were no other requirements and additions to the agenda. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, if it's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14609	First of all, so we don't have any after the misunderstanding, I'd like you to deliver the print to us who voted. So, who voted like that? It can be done technically, no problem at all. To get us a list of what the vote looked like. That's one thing. I doubt this vote, because you weren't at first able to ensure that it was right, given the previous experience, I doubt it and ask to be delivered to us. That's one thing, business intervention. And I have the right to do that, Mr. Chairman, to get a list of how anyone voted on this. The second thing, the proposal for a conclusion is given. I'd like to make that conclusion very precise. You have it written in front of you, which I have read, that the House may declare itself to this conclusion that there will be no misunderstanding left. The conclusion is that the House of Representatives makes a decision that gathers all military, police formations abroad until a proper law is passed. As long as you end it all up in commissions and stuff, just so Dom doesn't know about it, so there's no inaccuracies. And, according to the Rules of Procedure, you're obliged to put this to a vote, and you don't have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14610	I've already put it to the vote, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14611	You didn't put that on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14612	Within, that's the first point of resolution and that's what we're about.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14613	I suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14614	Mr. Lagumdžija, don't let me take your word for it. I'm moving within the Rules of Procedure. Please service, that within the time limit that is possible this printing and all the results of the vote to all MPs. The agenda is exhausted. The resolution and all its conclusions will be discussed on the committee and at this home when they are prepared and when they come and it is the respect of the Rules of Procedure and your initiatives and I am moving within the House, but now it is time to start working. The House has declared the resolution you submitted. The conclusion also, because he is part of the resolution and has declared that both that conclusion and everyone else is previously considered on the commission. Please deliver, please. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14615	...to place a statement of conclusion. You have violated the Rules of Procedure and the fundamental right of every MP here, but I just want it to be known, too, Mr. Chairman, that those who voted gave this support and amnesty to the Presidency's decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14616	Oh, come on, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm rejecting on behalf of the House as chairman of the House that kind of qualifications and calling people. Well, it wasn't even in totalitarianism the blackest. So let it serve you honor here in front of the public, as you label MPs, we have the courage... not in the function of an election campaign. I'm taking responsibility for this Mr. Lagumdžija, and so are you. You can have a break, if that's what the club's looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14617	He's looking for a club to calm down.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14618	I'm very calm. Take a look at yourself. Look at what you're doing and what you're saying to the MPs. Dear MPs, we continue the work of the 43rd session of the House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] Before I establish the agenda, do you want on behalf of Mr. Lagumdžija? Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I find that the 43rd session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Records from the 41st and 42nd sessions of the House, 2nd. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for a conclusion on the proposal for a project to determine the cost of donations, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Ombudsman, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, by procedure 105. 5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, also under Article 105. Seven. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, in proceedings before the courts of BiH, also under procedure 105. 8. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses also, in accordance with Article 105. 11 9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law establishing the BiH Export Credit Agency, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Ten. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and the allocation of an income, also under procedure 104. 11. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the financing of BiH institutions also, under procedure 104. 12. Adherence to the Law on the Foreign Investments Agency in BiH, Second Reading, 13. Proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH, first reading, 14. Proposal for a Law on the Society of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH, First Reading, 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code of BiH, Proponent Mr. Selim Bešlagić, First Reading, 16. Proposal for a Law on Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, First Reading, 17. Proposal for a tax code on extra value, first reading, 18. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy of BiH, first reading, Law No 1-02-70-04 of 29.7 this year, 19. Proposal for a law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt in the first question, 20. Proposal for a law on the State Border Service, first reading, 21. Proposal for a law on control and control of the crossing of the state border, first reading, 22. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, first reading, 23. Proposal for a law on missing persons in BiH, first reading, 24. Proposal for a bill on salaries and fees of the holder of judicial and prosecutorial duties and of civil servants and employees in the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, first reading, 25. Report by the BiH Election Commission on the financing of municipal elections in 2004, 26. Proposal for a resolution on the introduction of moratorium to all laws and decisions, which introduces new privileges of elected officials in the executive and legislative power, Proponent Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, 27. Appointment of a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, 28. The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes is subject to an agreement on the identical text of the public procurement law of BiH, and 29. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between BiH and the Organisation for the Collection of Chemical Tools on Privileges and Immunities... That would be the agenda, the adoption of today's session of the House. We're moving on to the first point. It's the records. Ad.1. Records with 41st and 41st. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14619	Dear Chairman, I did not understand that the agenda item will not be parliamentary issues, in the sense that it will be taxed, and that we will not ask parliamentary questions, because I have proposed one conclusion and now I do not know where to put it, since that item of the agenda is not, whether to put it before, and as far as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is concerned, tasks 12 of the Committee for the Making up of the Rules of Procedure's proposals at home, to propose by the next session a proposal for the Rules of Procedure of this House. Whether it will be a suggestion, whether or not the conclusions, and I think this parliament should agree to set it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14620	Deliver to the College, the College will assume, according to the commissions, that the joint session of both homes speeds up the procedure for adopting rules of procedure. I thank Mr. Živković. We're moving on to the first point. Ad.1.The minutes of the 41st and 42nd session of the House of Representatives. You got them on time. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14621	I'd like to say that the record from the 41st session, I'm speaking at point 18 correctly, but allow me to make one remark, which I would like to make in the record. After a vote on the commission's proposal, which was accepted, and after seeing the census after the session, it was found that MP Selim Bešlagić did not attend the session, which is not true. I ask that this fact be stated in the minutes and attached the voting list, in addition to the minutes of the 41st session. I don't think it's anything, but I want it removed, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14622	I think we can accept Mr. Bešlagić's intervention. Is there others, along with this annex. Is there more about the record? There isn't. Thank you. I'm closing the raps. I ask the House to make a statement, with this remark made by Mr Bešlagić about the 41st and 42nd sessions. I suggest we vote at the same time. I'm asking the House to come forward with the 41st and 42nd records. Vote now. Unanimously, with 36 votes in favour, we accepted the minutes of the 41st and 42nd session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. We're moving on to point two. Ad.2. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on a conclusion proposal for a proposal for a project to determine the use of donor funds You have today received a report on the proposal for a conclusion. The College has reached agreement in the Commission. Therefore, in accordance with Article 65(3), I shall inform the House and I shall conclude that the conclusion of the next term has been adopted in the House. A new 30-day deadline is given to the investigating committee to determine the cost of donor funds, to carry out further consultations at the Council of Ministers, to determine the reality of the project and the possibility of its implementation, and to inform us within that deadline. Thank you very much. We're going to the third point. 13 Ad.3. The joint commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence of BiH The Joint Commission of both homes reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on BiH's Defence. The Commission has adopted six amendments jointly. You've received a report from the Joint Commission. I'm opening a debate on the report. I don't have any reports. I'm closing the raps. I ask the House to make a statement by voting on the joint commission's report, which you have received. Vote now. I thank and realize that the House unanimously with 38 votes in favour has accepted the joint commission's report to both homes on its efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of BiH's Law on the Defence of BiH. Thank you very much. We're going to the fourth point. Ad.4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Proposed law with the motion, you got 6.8. I am opening a debate on the request for a procedure under Article 105. Mr. Momčilo Novaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14623	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I must express a surprise that such a serious set of laws, such as the laws of the regular number 5 to the regular number of the 9th agenda, are proposed under Article 105. In fact, if we were to have a business respect for Article 105, then it implies certain conditions, which the Council of Ministers should take into account, when proposing a law to discuss an urgent procedure without the right to act as an amendment. I couldn't find, I have to be honest, enough arguments that the Council of Ministers kept an account of it and, it seems to me that it's getting more and more in the process when the laws under Article 105 are being proposed, in fact, and other intentions, which is to adopt the law without amendment action, not to adopt it urgently. It should not be noted that the SDS Club never supports a member... in legal projects. So, until now, we've supported it, and we don't think we should go with this procedure. Here, especially we don't see what's so urgent that we can't discuss it for a month and a half or a month and make it possible to get a better law. I don't know if they'll be better quality and whether they'd be better quality, but in any case, MPs could influence the text of the law if they were given some other procedure. I, I must say, am very dissatisfied, a team before these laws are proposals, seems to me to the Ministry of Justice, where the minister was elected to a pedestal by the Serbian Democratic Party. So here I am taking the opportunity to call the minister to resign. I expect, therefore, that he will resign after this proposal, and this is not the first time we have such proposals from the Council of Ministers. Of course, it's my call, without the intention of bidding on that invitation today, so it's not my proposal, Mr Lagumdžija, which you should plead, but my call to the Minister, to remove the dilemma. I'm sure we have your consent, of course, which is why I don't need to check it. 14 So, with these few sentences in mind, I just want to make the SDS's position quite clear. We propose that this law be discussed in a regular procedure and therefore we will vote in favour of the law of regular number 5, with a regular number of 9 against the procedure under Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14624	Thank you very much. sledeći reported is Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14625	Let me say that, when it comes to the proposed set of laws, to be adopted under Article 105, I consider it to be a set of laws, therefore, on behalf of the SDA Club, it is a set of laws, which allow the Court of BiH to take over cases from the UN tribunal and I believe that this set of laws, indeed, that it meets the conditions required for Article 105. I do not think that a longer procedure would change anything in the very text of the law essentially, in their essence. I don't think they could be more adequate. This is how I believe that, indeed, we can gain time, because we know how important it is that the cases of the Hasklog tribunal are taken over and that those for whom it is necessary are prosecuted before the Court of Justice and the SDA Club supports the procedure under Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14626	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić, and let Mr. Beriz Belkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14627	Well, I've already expressed my disagreement with this kind of work by the Council of Ministers. I think that if someone were to record precisely how many laws in this House, or the law on amendments and amendments to the law, would have been passed in this way, therefore, by one accelerated procedure, without being able to make any remarks in this House, so that BiH would enter the book of the record, it is certain that there is no dilemma. Therefore, this Parliament has been serving laws for a long time, i.e. amendments and additions to system laws. So these aren't some laws, which aren't so easy, this is important matter, where parliamentarians have to talk, there's no dilemma. This minister's advice shows great indifference in its work from the very beginning. Regardless of the remarks made by MPs, which were very common in this regard, one way of working, which is not acceptable to the modern democratic states, is still being forced. I said last time in the Parlment, sometimes we have a jungle in decision-making. So I'm also going to apostrophe one thing, which is unacceptable to me, that we've discussed one question three times about the same thing. It is likely to remain registered with those who accurately record events in this paragraph. That kind of thing just can't happen. They can't happen. It must not happen that the law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law goes according to Article 105. So does the Council of Ministers take the authority of this parliament. Such things have happened, please, in dictatorships, where the executive power has taken over parliament. So, where we had the domination of execution over the parliamentary way of working. That's what happens in BiH. Such things this parliament must once say cannot be done in such a way. I believe we'll reject these suggestions this time. I agree with Mr. Novaković, I would be the only one who would ease the fact that we are going to the Rules of Procedure of Rule 104. So, to allow MPs to make known these 15 things. It will rarely happen, indeed in this House in two years' time, if I sit here, that I will vote for any law that goes by Article 105. Eventually, one member changes and has no fundamental touch to affect the essence of one law. In that case, it's possible, not in situations like this. I therefore propose not to accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers to hold a debate under Article 105, i.e. to accept it under Article 105, but to go to Article 104. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14628	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14629	My colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH, that is, its club will support the proposal to consider the set of these laws today under Article 105, and if I respect and understand the reasons that the predecessors presented and which is very difficult to justify, let me put it this way, if other things are neglected. The BiH Court of Justice's project, the Prosecutor's Office, has been going very long and slow. As I recall, we have a political consensus here in Parliament, namely a unique approach that BiH should have court and prosecution and criminal law, etc. and that it is necessary to enable him to prosecute war crimes, for a simple reason, which is a definition in some way, conditioned by the Court of Justice's mandate in The Hague, etc. So, simply, today we see this set of laws and procedures as an evil circle of one project, which we have all supported in some way before. So, we will vote in favour of this procedure in 105, and I recommend that the other MPs do so, regardless of what these arguments are, when it comes to procedure 105, and I would really like to express one great dissatisfaction, one relationship with the legislator. We used to say that on many occasions. Of course, I'm asking colleagues who are present not to accept it at their address. I'm talking about the promoter, I'm talking about the resolution ministry, which should monitor all its projects and in the commission phase, and especially in the plenary phase, and now we have to react, make arguments, etc. This would be a great help to work in this House. Unfortunately, the practice continues and again we do not have an authentic promoter, an authentic interpreter of the proposed solutions, but in any case, bearing in mind the importance of rounding up the justice project, we will support the proposed model, under Article 105. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14630	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone. Here you go, second vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14631	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, Well, you see, it is, in my view, very important changes and additions of legal projects from points 6 to 9 and, you see, we are now coming up with a way of discussing the conflict with real declaration and fundamental behaviour, where the reforms of the BiH judicial system are at stake. I agree that the system laws should go into regular procedure, that we, fortunately, have shown efficiency in the work of this Parliament and, of course, we can also end up in a shortened procedure and serious legislative projects, that it has been a practice so far, but I do not dispute the 16 needs of the Council of Ministers to speed up the procedure, whether they have been shortened or when the amendments and amendments to the law are in the procedure of Article 105. I think BiH is not in a position to wait and create a political mood for years, when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the fight against organised crime within BiH. I think judicial institutions need to create conditions to do their job, in order to speed up BiH's path to Euro-Atlantic integration. I am afraid that, if we are on amendments to the laws and amendments, looking for procedures such as, say, the Election Law, that this could be politically misused and understood as buying time and the absence of political will, when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because you see all the political options being stated that the UN tribunal, part of the cases or lower-ranked suspects in The Hague, should be left to the domestic judicial system. We are now in a position to show this, truly truly, we are ready, to train our BiH institutions and that those who are suspected, prove their wines or innocence to the domestic institutions of BiH. That's why I think it's very important today that these legal projects see the light of day. They will not, of course, be the ideal solution, as well as the original text of the law, but I think it's much better than having nothing and having a barren political debate whether or not we're against it. Of course, I don't also dispute the right of an MP to decide on his own. The Council of Ministers, if you include a business opportunity, is entitled to vote in favour or against. So, these proposals can go down, they can go into regular procedures, but we can't change the Council of Ministers' request to seek a shortened procedure and as far as I'm concerned, I will, naturally, support the Council of Ministers' proposals regarding Article 105's procedure and, if, of course, it's not good, but we are very specific. Well, you see, take and make an analysis of how many legislative projects Parliament of Slovenia or neighbouring countries has brought to a shortened or shortened procedure, but their wish was to become part of a united Europe, so their words were followed by the works of parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14632	I thank Mr. Špirić. Replica, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14633	So I think we're discussing procedure. I don't think we should go into legal solutions. So, in what the law says. Look, I don't allow that, I don't allow, but I don't allow the SDS and the SDS Club to resist the entry of Europe and The Hague to set up a department for UN war crimes indictees, etc. I have spoken very clearly of the procedure and I would ask, indeed, that my discussion be treated as well, and in the ordinary procedure I will make it absolutely clear about the law, as I always do about the remarks and the text of the law. So we're talking procedure. I would, indeed, pray, of course each of us can vote for a procedure that he, therefore, does not need to enter into the text of the law. We'll discuss it if we determine Article 105 that we're going and then they'll see if we're for text or not for text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14634	Thank you. Mr. Avdić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14635	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, dear guests, I, too, want to appeal and, as never before, this Parliament does not have much room for manoeuvre but to disagree or agree in full with the Council of Ministers' proposal, that the laws of the 5th to 9th agenda, adopted and considered by article 105, is deeply aware that the 105th objectively substitute the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy in BiH, endangers the integrity of this home and everything else, but objectively in the situation where BiH is a country in transition, when we do not have a built judicial system in BiH, that we do not have the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which are still not yet functioning, when we have, in the opinion of the international community, one billion million loses the Federation's budget, and to billions of the RS budget for the reasons of not built-up judicial system in BiH, not an efficient and not organised fight against organised crime, etc. which means that there is not much opportunity not to approve this request by the Council of Ministers, to go in accordance with Article 105. Once again repeating and understanding all those who simply discuss on the basis of Article 105, from the aspect of subsidising the development of parliamentary democracy in BiH, which means, I support the ministry that developed these laws and proposed, or the Council of Ministers, and I think we really need to make an effort to understand each other and in this context to support this set of laws from 4th to 9th to go according to Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14636	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I hereby conclude the debate and ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. With 22 votes for the proposal, the Council of Ministers' request has a general majority in the Federation and an entity in RS has 4 votes, so there is not enough majority. So, the College's view that the request is in line with the envisaged business procedure. So let's move on. We're going to point six. I apologize for point five. Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. And this legal proposal, as well as the next three, has been delivered to you 6.8. The argument is the same as in the previous application for the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, and I am opening a debate on this request by the Council of Ministers. There's no argument. I propose that the House be made known on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. Same situation as the vote. Same situation in college. We're going to the sixth point. Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare by voting on the request of the Council of Ministers, that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. 18 Vote now. With 21 votes for, 12 against, 4 abstentions and an insufficient entity majority, we have the same voting situation, the same agreement situation in the College. We're going to the 7th point. Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the application of the case by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, also under the procedure of Article 105. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the raps. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers. Vote now. With 22 votes for, 12 against, 3 abstentions, 18 Federations, 4 RS. We have the same situation, so we need to get along. The College shall agree, or declare, within the time limit laid down in its Rules of Procedure. Transmit 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses, also under the procedure of Article 105. This is the last of the application groups for this procedure. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would ask the House to make a statement to the Council of Ministers' request that this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Witness Protection Act under threat and threatened witnesses be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Vote now. 22 votes for, 12 against, 3 abstentions. 18 Federation, 4 RS. Same voting situation. The committee's plea procedure will be consistent with the Rules of Procedure. I thank all the MPs. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law establishing an Export Credit Agency of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. We are on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law establishing an Export Credit Agency, with a request for procedure of Article 104. This proposal has been sent to you by 27.7. You received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was delivered 2.8. I'm opening a discussion on the request for a shortened procedure, by procedure 104. Are there any reports? Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14637	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, here, if anyone had time to read what the authorities and activities of this agency are, I don't think this agency is necessary at all. I think these responsibilities given to the agency are all the responsibilities of commercial banks, so to speak for the SDS Club, so we will vote against this law, because we believe that this law does not need BiH at all. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14638	I thank Mr. Jovanović. I remind you, this is a statement of procedure, not the content of the law. Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go. You gave up. Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law establishing an export-credit agency of BiH under a reduced procedure, in accordance with procedure 104. Vote now. So, with 30 votes in favour of, 4 against, 1 abstention and enough entity majority, the Council of Ministers has accepted that the proposal for a law establishing an export-credit agency of BiH be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Payments in a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue, in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Bill, delivered to you 28.7. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion 2.8. I'm opening a hearing on the Council of Ministers' request. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, to consider the proposal for a bill on payments to a single account and the allocation of revenues in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. I find that the House unanimously with 34 votes in favour has accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a single bill of payments and the allocation of revenues in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to the 11th point. Ad.11. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on the financing of BiH institutions, also in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 104. And you got this bill 28.7 with a request for the same procedure. I'm opening a motion hearing. No sign-ins. I'm closing the raps. I ask the House to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers, that the proposal for a law on the financing of BiH institutions should be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. I find the House unanimously with 35 votes in favour, accepted the Council of Ministers' request that the draft law on the financing of BiH institutions be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Thank you very much to the MPs. That ended this part of the agenda, where Dom pleaded on the procedure. We're going to the 12th point. Ad.12. The proposal for a law on an agency for improving foreign investment in BiH in the second reading, as you know, at the 42nd session, we adopted a proposal for this law in the first reading. We also adopted a conclusion, allowing the House a new commission phase and the investment of the amendments. So the relevant commission makes up a new report. We have received a new report from the Commission on foreign trade and customs. A report like you've seen before. The amendments to the bill were submitted by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović and they were not adopted on the Commission. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović again submitted the same amendments, which she wants to defend at the plenary stage. I note, therefore, that we are considering the bill in the second reading, and I am opening a hearing on the amendments submitted by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Are there any reports? There are no reports. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14639	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have no need to explain anything to the amendment. I feel the need to say why I have submitted the amendment in my ear stage again. In fact, I intervened last time in terms of illogical formulations in a member of the proposed law, which defines the competences of the foreign investment promotion agency and proposed one formulation, which included, by substance, everything that was proposed by the Council of Ministers, but excluded a possible conflict of jurisdiction between the FIP and other state and entity institutions. First of all, I'm thinking of an external trade chamber and entity privatisation agencies. Following the approval of this home, the commission met and reconsidered the bill's proposal and the amendment was proposed and the vote was three members of the commission were in favour, 1 member of the commission was against and 2 were abstained, after which, especially after such a vote, I again sent the amendment to the procedure. Therefore, it is a language formulation, which would exclude a possible conflict of jurisdiction and one correction in the interpretation of the law which is in contradiction with the formulation of one member. So it's about one amendment, not the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14640	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović for her explanation. Anybody else want some? Mr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14641	I would like to say that the commission was not the result, the outcome of the vote was not as interpreted by my colleague Azra, but was 3 against, 2 abstentions, or 3 abstentions and 1 against. So there wasn't much. And this turns out to be most of what you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14642	Is it a replica, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14643	So I feel the need really, and here's the record here, the 3 were for, 1 was against and 2 were kept. As chairman of the commission, I expect, 2 were abstentioned, one member of the commission did not say in the vote, a colleague from the SDS, then it was a later abstention. Three for, one against, two abstentions were voices.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14644	Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Potočnik. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14645	And I thought at the session alone that the amendment had passed, so I said it was over. However, I was warned that the result of the vote was not such. The Commission found that on the proposed text of the law of Parliament, Azra Hadžiahmetović paeded the amendment, a coma with 3 gals for, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions were not adopted. So 3 - 3 means there's no majority. He wasn't accepted on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14646	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14647	I was on that committee, so I just wanted to say that this is not what Mrs Azra said 3 - 1 - 2, but 3 - 1 - 3, so it's simply not supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14648	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the first deputy chairman of the House, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14649	Just one small business intervention. Look, if three men voted in committee for, three were abstentions and one was against it. I don't know who could have concluded that the amendment didn't go through. The amendment went through with the commission. It is according to the Rules of Procedure, because the abstentions, you know how we vote here in Parliament. And I'm asking the committee to take the Rules of Procedure to sit down with the secretary of the committee and give us a report and we'll find out it's Dom. If, therefore, it is true, Mr. Kunić that 3 were against 1 and 3 were abstentions, you had to find in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14650	I thank Mr. Džafrović. We have here a report from the commission, which you all got as representatives, saying that three votes were in favour, one vote against and three abstentions. The amendment was adopted under the Rules of Procedure, not rejected, and I think that as a House, we can accept the Commission's report in this way, i.e. interpreting the Commission's report, because this is the only right thing to do. But I'm still opening the debate. So, according to the decision-making procedure in committees, the amendment was accepted by Mrs Hadžiahmtović, if this is the result of the vote. Anybody else want some? Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14651	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that here, there is probably a confusion, an ugly situation, that it happened as in a bookie, and one, and two, and this report in fact admits that no amendment has been adopted, and the result of the vote says that it has been adopted and we have a new moment now. We have a moment to get the law in a new form, that it is no longer before us the law, in fact we have the law with the amendments now, and I suggest the College to... leave for the next 22 sessions, because we came with the belief that we have the law, without the amendment, and now we have the fact that, maybe someone wanted to undo that amendment, to react to it, we have a new situation, and I want to propose that we take this off the agenda until the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14652	Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14653	I'm in a bad situation. As far as I remember at the session, there were 3 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. But the record, however, says something different that I signed that I wasn't watching. Yeah, it's on the record. This is a reminder to me that I'm going to have to keep a close eye on the record. So, apparently by this interpretation, the amendment has passed. I guess you don't doubt that I don't know that in that situation the amendment has passed, but I was corrected when I said, say, three for, three against and one abstention. Therefore, it would be the most just solution to accept Mrs Milićević's proposal. The president is expressing, I don't know, Mrs. Leho was sitting with me, and we discussed the issue together, if she remembers. As far as I can remember, that's how it was. It's in the record, and I signed that record today that I wasn't looking at it specifically.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14654	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. Before I give my word to Mr. Belkić, watch out for me so here we have confirmation from the president of the commission that according to the results of the vote, the amendments have been accepted. So we have an argument and an explanation for the amendment. I don't see the need for us to come back again. There are enough arguments here for the House to declare today the amendment and the full report of the commission. I think that's correct and that we do this job today, because it's clear if he had a majority on the commission and if we have the amendment here that we can, so I'm saying, we can end the procedure, if it takes five minutes for the commission, that the commission comes out of the board, which will confirm this, I think we can give a five-minute break, if you agree. Would you like a word, Mr. Belkić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14655	Well, here's the deal. You suggested what I wanted to suggest. So we support the opportunity of what the chairman of the College proposes. So don't let us get things back to square one. The amendment whether it is adopted, whether it is not adopted, we will do so when you once again go over the entire course of the session and the minutes, and the very character of the amendment is not such that it brings people into a dilemma that people can't decide on the law and there's no need to get things back to square one. Mr. Chairman, if you haven't decided to take a break, I suggest on behalf of the club for 10 minutes that the commission sits, five minutes, as long as it takes. If you agree, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14656	I accept the Club's request, and as chairman, I'm setting a break five minutes before the plea. 23 The 43rd session of the House of Representatives, we gave a ten-minute recess to meet the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. [[PAUZA]] I ask the President, the chairman of the Commission, Dr Petar Kunić, to inform us of what the Commission has done. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14657	President, I don't think there's any reason to argue about the amendment, which is not so important. He does not go into the essence of the existing law and we have accepted the conclusion that 3 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. So we said, then the law passes. So the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14658	Just wait for the stenogram. It's not like that, 3 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. Repeat just for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14659	Yeah, 3 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14660	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14661	Thank you very much. There are deputies here to help, so I'll fight back. Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. Is there any further debate on this report from the Commission and on the proposal for a law on an agency to improve foreign investment? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the law, which is an integral part of the commission's report. Please vote now. So, I agree that with 33 votes to, 2 against, without the abstention and enough entity majority votes, we have adopted the proposal for a law on an agency to improve foreign investment in BiH, with the Commission's report on the second reading. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 13th point. Ad.13. Proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH in first reading At the 37th session of the House adopted procedure 104. We've got the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni opinion. It has also been identified as a relevant committee to consider this legislative proposal. She delivered her report to us 29.7. She's adopted nine amendments. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate. Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14662	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, therefore, has already been established that the report by the committee responsible has been divided in writing. We just missed, and what was later seen and, to the soul, this group within the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, that part of this bill, part of Annex I, where 24 specific chemical parameters are mentioned on the other side, instead of "nitrate 50 milligate per litre, should stand nitrate 50, in fact there are 50 micrograms here, and over here is 50 milligrams per litre, and instead of nitrate 0.5 milligrams should stand nitrate 0.1 milligrams per litre. Only, therefore, is the technical error, otherwise the report remains as indicated, so many chairmans.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14663	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who wants to move on around this law? There are no more applications for discussion. I am concluding the debate and we are moving on to a statement on the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH, in first reading. I ask the House to plead on the proposal of this law in the first reading. Vote now. So, I find the House unanimously with 34 votes in favour, accepted the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH in the first reading. I suggest that the House plead, that this law be made known in a second reading. Please make this proposal known to the House. Vote now. With 34 votes in favour, 1 against and enough entity majority, we accepted the proposal for a bill on bottled drinking waters of BiH today in a second reading. Since there were no amendments in the plenary phase, I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal for this law in the second reading. Vote now. In agreement with 35 votes for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the proposal for a law on bottled drinking waters of BiH and in a second reading was adopted. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 14th agenda. Ad.14. The proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross Society in first reading At the 41st session, we adopted the motion for procedure 104. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee was delivered to you on 29.6., and the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee delivered its report as relevant 26.7. The Commission adopted one amendment. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm sorry, I'm getting a correction here now, that there have been reports and that the Commission has accepted two amendments. Here I welcome the chairmanship of the Red Cross/Cross BiH, Mr Brana Dursun, who attends today's session of this House. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this law in the first reading. Dr. Milorad Živković picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14664	Dear Chairman, As two amendments have been adopted on the committee to address some formal problems and concerns about national and national and that there have been no amendments to others, I welcome the Red Cross Act and I propose that the chairman put it to the vote in the second reading, and I call on Parliament to adopt it today in a post-moon closeness. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14665	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this law? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the raps. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a law on the BiH Red Cross/Crist Society in the first reading. Please, Dom, vote now. I find that, unanimously with 33 votes, we have adopted the proposal for this law in our first reading, and I propose the same conclusion as with the previous law, that the House pleads, that this law is being declared today and in the second reading. Please make your point on the proposal for this conclusion. Vote now. We have unanimously accepted that the House declares itself on the proposal of this law and in the second reading. Since there has been no amendment to the confiscation phase, I would like to make a statement on the proposal for this law and in the second reading. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 34 votes in favour, we adopted the proposal for a law on the Red Cross/Brussels Society and in a second reading. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 15th point. Ad.15. The proposal for a law amending the BiH Penal Code, the proponent of Commissioner selo Bešlagić's first reading, submitted a proposal for a law amending the law on 31.5. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Authority delivered its opinion on 29.6., as relevant, delivered a report to us on 26.7. As relevant, the Constitutional and Legal Commission carried out the no-technical processing of the proposed law, which was agreed by the Proposer. I'm opening a debate on the bill. No sign-ins. I am concluding the debate and we are moving on to a statement on the Bill on Amendments to the Penal Code of BiH, the proposing representative of Mr selo Bešlagić in his first reading. I ask the House to plead in the first reading. I'm asking you to plead, now vote. 29 for, 7 against. The general majority exists, there is no entity. The consent will be as well as the laws requested by the Council of Ministers under procedure within the business time limit. Transmit 16th point. Ad.16. A proposal for a law on the Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, proposed by MP Momčilo Novaković in his first reading, was submitted to Parliament on 20.11. Last year. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Authority delivered its opinion on 15.12. and the report of the Commission concerned was delivered on 23.7 October. She passed the bill by majority vote. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman has filed amendments he wants to defend again. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Auto-Moto Binding of BiH, proposed by Mr. Momčilo Novaković in his first reading. Are there any reports? Mr. Novaković, come in. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14666	The chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I will not talk about the law itself, or the reasons for the law being passed, given that it has its reasons, and also the members of the law, because it has it in the text. But I did report for saying that it's interesting, when, here, it suggests someone who most often doesn't propose such laws, and here, it's a SDS club, which is my little bit of a law to make a roofing organization, like the BiH Auto-Moto Alliance. And then we get one full strike against that law and, of course, from which of the BIHAMK. I didn't expect BIHAMK to support this law, because this law in, in fact, it needs to give up part of the funds in favour of remaining, conditionally said, two parts of the BiH Auto-Moto Alliance. But what I certainly didn't expect, after the end of the phase, after all these memos, was to regain the opinion of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Auto-Moto, i.e. the BIHAMK Club. It is not common that when the law is on the agenda, then all those interested are delivering their opinion on the law, especially not before, not after the commission phase. I'd say this contracted report doesn't change anything, brings nothing new than what was in the commission phase. But I only have one more thing to say. That the law, if the dates were looked at when I proposed it, had long been detained, not to be found in the commission phase, until it entered BIHAMK in the register, therefore, in the register of an association operating on the entire BiH territory, which happened on 25.9.2003. So, after I proposed the law and it took a little while longer, after this law was proposed. The justice ministry has enrolled the club in an association register operating in the territory of the entire BiH. Until then, it wasn't like that. As far as he's working on the territory of the whole of BiH, I guess we're our own witnesses. We know who's working. I didn't propose anything else by law, but by the fact that it was. So it's a state of play. We know who collects the information and who gives the information. It's all over BiH's territory is not BIHAMK. I believe that now, after this, the Ministry of Justice will register two other associations as associations operating in the entire BiH territory, and we will have three associations from the same area, which will operate throughout the territory, and then we will have a overlap of jurisdiction and everything else that follows. All of this will be the result of the failure to adopt this project, that is, all of this will be the consequence, unless, indeed, we take seriously the fact that at this level we need one association, but that this one association is not BIHAMK but consisted of three associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14667	Thank you very much. Is there any further? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14668	I have invested a number of amendments, which I am defending amendments that I have tried to explain in the commission phase, and I am not going on the subject now, but, as it is about first reading, an engo to say a few things, when it comes to the principles of which this law is based. To, of course, I highly appreciate the effort, which counterpart Novaković has made in the scope of the proposal for his law and, of course, the procedure that has been brought in. What has personally disturbed me as an MP in the concept of this law, therefore, in principle is, what goes from one assumption to a defacto, that we in BiH have therefore three associations of citizens, and associations of this kind are therefore associations of citizens, who, defacto, do not know how to say it, tries in some way, however, to put a sign of some kind of national association in this area. 27 It is not disputed that everyone, in accordance with the law on foundations and associations, can form an appropriate association, including this, but the fact that the association in this specific area is one of the associations, so to speak, which operates in the whole of BiH and is registered in accordance with the law on this matter, should also be performed by certain public authorities. I thought that the concept, which was applied by Mr. Novaković, that, in fact, I would say, even formally fusion those associations, although the fact that international representation in this capacity was retained by BIHAMK in the current name, so I realized that of these three associations of citizens, which function mechanically, would have created some roof organization. It's not at all controversial in my court that I should do this, let's say a roof organization, as popular as it is. But he personally bothered me with that principle, that, in fact, the single three associations join together into one and that's actually the right solution. On the contrary, unlike colleagues Novaković, I am grateful to the people of BIHAMK and other these associations, who are functioning, which has given us a boost in commission, which at this stage, an argument which they as a whole and as interested citizens have provided to us in the procedure to see this possibility. That's why I don't find it difficult that the BIHAMK gentlemen have spoken to each other at this stage. But, speaking, therefore, on the principles, I think it is more acceptable, in fact, and this is suggested we saw from the documentation that we have received and the relevant international organisations in this area, to implement, on other grounds, the concept of this association at the level of BiH. Well, here, even if it were to happen tomorrow, that, which is probably legal and not perhaps controversial, according to the law of the Justice Ministry, they register for action in the whole of BiH and two or three others, I don't know how many, five of these associations, the next question can be asked. The state has authority, jurisdiction in this area. It must determine to whom it conveys the exercise of these powers and in a situation where there are several congenital associations, could not, would not be in principle and rationally transfer the exercise of these powers to all of them. According to this, the state has to decide to whom to transfer the exercise of these public powers. I am therefore, perhaps biased, but I went from one very rational, one rational approach, that that association that has already been legitimateised and in international relations, which is already in force under the regulations, so if you want constitutional provisions, because so far they have not been amended by the decision of others, other laws and other bodies, have international legitimacy, simply suggested that we delete those provisions from the law of colleague Novaković, which in some way represent the national exclusion of three associations, and that we simply exercise the delegation of powers and that, in accordance with the law on administration and other applicable laws. Therefore, I, speaking of principles, felt that they were not acceptable principles, which counterpart Novaković applied in the preparation of this law, but, again, not stressing at any time the need for this issue to be settled properly. How real is the way this is proposed by Mr BIHAMK, here, I think it's least problematic, if it's troublesome at all, and I support their views, but in the end, it was, if I'm not wrong at the commission stage, a fat debate among the representatives of these associations themselves who have said a lot to the Commission. The Commission has heard as much about all these arguments as can be seen from the amendment report. That's why I've proposed these amendments and I'm going to ask when it comes to this phase of the law to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14669	I thank Mr. Ćeman. I have a translation of Mr Ibrahim Đedović, Mr Petar Kunić and Mr Miloš Jovanović. Mr. Đedović, please. It wasn't you, so Mr. Petar Kunić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14670	...that you don't understand public authority. Mr. Ćeman shows no knowledge of public authority. I'm sorry to have to say this, but it's not really public authority. If this is in the function of the state and that the state gives some authority to carry out certain tasks. That's what it is. decentralisation or deconcentration of state-guarantee operations. If the State is solely competent. But here the state appears as the bearer of all activities, competences to the outside, and not to the inside, does not have to go inside. It's a matter of will, how we'll arrange relations with these associations. So I think the law is a pretty good and happy solution. And public authority is something else, it's an authoritative advance against all entities you give him power. So you're giving some association the ability to exercise power, because originally it doesn't have authority, it's only the state's authorities, and you're giving it to someone to exercise power, not to transfer jurisdictional powers. It's something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14671	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanović has the word. Let Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14672	Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues, Here, I will say a few words as chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission. It seems to me for a long time that there was an initiative to form, to say one organisation, which would coordinate the work of all the auto-mots, as many as there are in BiH, means HAK and Auto-Moto tied RS, it seems to me that there are already two formed and in Brcko, so as to contribute to this, I will also say a memo, when the chairman of the presidency was Mr. Beriz Belkić, he then sent a letter to the Council of Ministers, where he says, asking the Council of Ministers of BiH to urgently continue operations to establish a joint auto-engine of the BiH Union, and the urgent adoption of the law on the public authority of the BiH Auto-Moto Alliance. And that's that letter means 17.7. 2002. That's why I said there's been an initiative for a long time. But even to this day, nothing has been done. The Commission has also several times sent a letter to the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, and in relation to this letter and what we have asked for, they have done nothing, and we are as a committee, normano, respecting the Rules of Procedure, so we have done what is our task and given our opinion to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14673	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Bešlagić. No more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14674	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of dozbolite colleagues, I am a member of this committee that Mr. Jovanović said and everything is fine until he comes to where there's money, then let's do something that we'll do after he's done something to share. You'll see when the law comes on television, where there's money, don't touch me, where there isn't, let's integrate it. This is about one problem, where we said that the state should assess what it is that belongs to the state in the auto-moto alliance, I think it was in the auto-moto alliance and then it's going to pass a law that can form an organization, an institution and something like an alliance, an auto-moto binding. However, what is the 29 auto-moto alliance? Is that a sports organization? I think it's more sporting than it is, and we've passed a law, which says that those organisations, which have registered and have registered, means, what BiH is, that this law, in fact, favours that organization, I'm talking about a sports organisation, is on the proposal of Mr Zorić, where the law was unanimously passed here. So now we have an organization that's registered like that, not getting into it, whether it's legal or not. I suggest, yes, in this thought, we check the validity of this law, which we have made, that after that the Council of Ministers will definitely make the decisions which, in fact, are the powers, which the Auto-Moto Alliance will be able to pass on to it, and not what Mr. Kunić says, if seven other auto-moto clubs, alliances are to be formed, I don't care, but what is essential, what belongs to the state, to surrender to that institution, which would be this new law. Therefore, I believe that this law, certainly, by my deep conviction, I think if it comes to this stage of voting on the amendment, I will personally vote for the amendments proposed by Mr. Ćeman, but I fear that then this law will fail, so I suggest that it would be good for the Council of Ministers to define between this, first and foremost, that we see whether, under this law that Vinko Zorić has proposed, the Auto-Moto Club belongs to that institution or to some other. If it did, it would stick to it for now and a new law would be passed, which would say what powers are passed on to the newly formed Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, or I don't know what it's going to be called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14675	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I conclude the discussion on the Proposal for a Law on the Automotive Alliance of BiH, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, in the first reading and we move on to a statement on the proposal of this zoo in the first reading. I ask the MPs to plead on the proposal of this law in the first reading. Vote now. 19 for, 12 against, 4 four abstentions. The general majority exists, the Federation doesn't exist, so we're going to have to deal with consent in the College. Thank you. That's the end of the 16th agenda. And, I propose as chairman, and in agreement with the other members of the College, and it has been announced at the extended session of the College, that we now set a break, which the clubs, the representatives, will use for lunch, that at two and 15 we will be addressed by the President of the World Bank, Mr Volfenson, and that after his address we continue to work and we have a very important point, that is the proposal for a tax on extra value and we will see to what extent we will be blushing today and how much we will work, but also tomorrow we will also work to know. Thank you very much. I'm asking the MPs to stick to this timing. Gentlemen, distinguished representatives, respected chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected ministers, respected, representatives of entity governments, representatives of international organisations, 30 [[PAUZA]] Today, it is our special honor and pleasure and honor to welcome in the BiH Parliament the president of the World Bank Group, Mr. Džems Volfenson, with his associates. Before I give Mr. Volfenson my word, several brief remarks about this important institution, its role in BiH and the gentleman himself. The World Bank as one of the UN specialising agencies, consisting of 184 member states, was founded during World War II in Bretonwuls Newhemshire, with the initial goal of helping rebuild Europe. The reconstruction remained a significant feature in the Bank's work, given the natural and humanitarian disasters and the need for post-comflict reconstructions, which affect the economy in development and transition. Today's bank, however, focuses most on poverty reduction issues as the primary goal of its work. The World Bank, together with 189 countries and numerous organisations, has been committed to a global partnership without precedent to combat poverty. Millennium Development Goals define specific objectives in the field of school attendance, child mortality, pregnant health, disease, water access, which should be met by 2015. To that end, it is impossible not to mention an initiative for the poor countries with a large debt, as 26 poor countries have been released from debt. Among the many other global partnerships, the World Bank has put its support for serving against AIDS at the top of its programme. It is the world's largest long-term funding programme against AIDS. The World Bank is organised as a group, covering five close institutions, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Investment Agency, the International Financial Corporation, a multilateral investment guarantee agency and an international investment dispute settlement centre. In BiH, the World Bank has been present since 1996, supporting 50 projects, totalling $1 billion, with a 35-year maturity, a grace period of 10 years, no interest, and a 0.70% loan fee. The involvement of the World Bank of BiH has significantly helped transform the Bosnian-Heregic society and the war-torn economy through the rebuilding of infrastructure, the birth of new political institutions and processes, and a more modern economic base. Progress is particularly visible in the banking sector, as well as in social, financial and business reforms. It is significant to note that in the middle of this year, financial support was granted for the three new social reform projects in BiH, worth $97m, as well as a $20 billion service improvement project in the area of infrastructure. Now, first words about Mr. Volfenson. Before becoming the ninth president of Bnka in 1995, behind Mr. Volfenson was an outstanding career of an international banker, with parallel involvement on the issue of development and the global environment. As a graduate lawyer with Harvard Business School Mastership, for achievements in the field of science and art, he has received significant recognitions from many governments and institutions, from which he should specifically single out the title of knights, awarded by England's Queen Elizabeta ii as well as membership in the American Academy of Science and Arts and the American Philosopheric Society. 31 Under the leadership of Mr. Volfenson, the World Bank has put the pro-propiotiet fight against corruption and poverty, as well as the fight against AIDS, and strengthening the strategic... in matters of culture, peace, faith and development. Because of his leadership and selfless drive, which in just over eight years has traveled as many as 120 countries to better understand the challenges facing the member states of the World Bank, Mr. Vofelson was appointed the third president in the history of the World Bank, who was appointed to the second five-year term. I now ask Mr. Volfenson to address the representatives of both homes. Here you go, Mr. Volfenson.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14677	Mr. Chairman, Prime Ministers, Prime Minister Terzić, Prime Minister Mikerević, Prime Minister Hadžipašić, representatives, your Excellency from the international community, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I am phenomenally feeling that I am able to speak in front of such a gathering, in front of such a lofty gathering. I know very well, that only a few people had this opportunity. I am very grateful to her for having the opportunity to speak to you. My first visit was 1996, and I came back in 1999, and the pictures I had from '96. I'll never forget. These images of destruction, these images were incredible tensions, which existed in the state. The interpersonal tensions at a high level, and I was wondering at that stage, are we actually going to be able to make one mission, which is made of so three different elements and such a history, but we've had the privilege of the last years of '96? to work with your government and with the pragmatic bodies, in an attempt to help you and to support you in your incredible attempts to build this nation. I think you have every reason to feel very proud of this achievement and everything that happened in this country, so I can speak to one peaceful parliament today. I can meet three prime ministers today, I can see a sense of unity and, if I'm sure there are many differences in the leadership of this nation and what I can say with great confidence is that we are delighted with the experiences we have had in this country and that we are committed to it in the next phase of renewal and development. As the chairman said, we have provided a lot of funding and I think that we have provided some expertise in restoring and helping to restore your country's infrastructure, address the issues of social order and address the issues that will make this nation so sustainable again, and hopefully, many, many EU members, these are your objectives, not mine, and this task is to help you, to achieve these objectives. We're ready to do this, and my colleagues here are committed to this task. I came here for two reasons, actually three reasons. The first was to visit the bridge of the Old Bridge, in which the Bank played its primary role in financing and in bringing the project to its end. There's one more thing about what I want to say, because I'm a bridge, maybe it doesn't seem like an economic decision, it was a decision based not only on the ability to build tourism, but it was a symbol for us, that people who have people in Mostar were trying to give a symbol of unity, so we're thrilled that we could be part of cultural and peace action and I was extremely happy, but they banned me from jumping off the bridge, because I'm Australijanac, I'm not Mostarac. We've seen some people jump and we've been happy that they've survived, because it would really be impossible if they hadn't. This was a wonderful visit. Another reason is, as you already know, that a youth conference of 160 participants from 83 countries, who have been meeting here for three days, here in Sarajevo and where we have had many countries, who wanted to host this conference, but I was, really, really keen to act here, because I remember visiting mosques, synagogues, churches, where I have seen and heard and learned about Sarajevo as a place of peace and what young people wanted today, is one possibility for a world that is better than the world in which we now live, which is a world of peace, tolerance and 32 future. I want to tell you something about the achievements of these three days, because it was a significant conference and, if I may say, with a good presentation of this country. The third reason is to meet with your leaders and talk about BiH, not only in a way of congratulating the past, not just looking at the internal works of this country, but to have the opportunity to talk to the global aspects of this country, regionally also, as we face the future together, because what I see in the world right now is, the world, one world in dispansion, that's a world where problems are not three different history, three different cultures, not one BiH country, it's a world where we see amazing challenges between the former Europeans or if you want developed countries and the United States, which have billions of people from the total population, who have 80% income and five billion people living in an undeveloped world have 20%. Over the next 25 years, Europe will not grow, it will become smaller, it will be older, and the rest of the world will be seven billion of the total eight. In two of the only countries where we have a third of the world in China and India, 2.3 billion people, I wanted to talk to your colleagues and talk to you about this imperative that exists on your country, not only to look at each other, but to look at the environment in which we all live, and today all of us in this room are probably sorry for people who are in a very difficult situation, who are dying every day. We must think of us as members of the global community, who must think about their future, not just being part of it, but contributing to peace, but also being competitive. This imperative on the outside of each country, this global dimension, the limitations of the possibilities for internal division and in some way the forces that every country has to make itself competitive and give itself a chance for young people for the future. Half the world today is under the age of 24.8 billion people live on this planet below 24, and 1.8 billion is below the age of 14. Over the next 25 years, we're going to get 2.5 billion people in the world. These are young people who will seek youth, who will seek hope and jobs and every country, not just this one, must provide opportunity for those children. This is not a formula that's being set up by the World Bank. This is a decision that you, as legislators and as leaders, must take. Because if you don't do it, you'll be confused by competition and you'll lose your youth and you won't be lucky and so what I'm proud of is that I'm connected to this country, is that you're like a legislative body, you're trying to solve the problems of self-sustainability, competitiveness and independence, and I have to say that we're going to feed you 100% in these efforts. He remembers eight years ago, when I was in China, who didn't get any investment, and I remember talking to the president and the prime minister who had to do something in China and we said you have to have a bankruptcy law, you have to have a competitive investment environment, you have to create a private sector. From the private sector not a challenge but a party, to make a chance for the private sector to develop their talents, to make innovations, and I was saying this to a communist society, it's China 1.2 billion people for eight years have a law on bankruptcy, that's where you can register companies the fastest. The complexity of the tax has been lifted and corruption has been lifted. It's not, of course, because of me that China did it, but they realized that if they succeed, they can do these things and I have to tell you that, from 1% to 4%, their share in the world economy has jumped to 4%, and by 2017 experts say that they're going to mate to the United States and I'm saying this, if China does that, it's a challenge for you, it's a challenge for every country that wants to attract investment. Your country has a chance because of your proximity to the common market and because of the intelligence and character of your people and because of the history of these people to be competitive and, if in any way we can help you, if you want to achieve this, we will be delighted to offer ourselves to you. As we were in support of the reconstruction of infrastructure, energy, water, roads, especially, as you did in the reform of the education system. An education system that must educate young people for jobs, young people for opportunities in a formal and informal way. None of the things I tell you are great science. 33 You do not have to be an atomic physicist to understand. This is what's happening around the world, so I know there are a lot of aspects in your work that are difficult, but frankly, what I'm describing to you is not just the view of the bank, the sighting of the bank, but that's the necessity today, the necessity of life on our planet. If your young people have the ability of your country, then they must achieve those goals. We are assessing in the Bank our programmes in different countries and I want to tell you that the internal indicator of our work in this country shows that your government or your parliament and your leadership are in the first place anything that we have done in post-conflict countries, where you are not only post-conflict, but also a transitional economy, which is going through the transition arrangements, so that my critics, my inspectors, have told me that your achievement is at the top of the job, which is done with us and for this I congratulate you, but I also want to tell you, as the Prime Minister has already said before, we are going to the second stage and how it goes to the second stage towards possible entry into the European market, how you work on another country, in the competition among young people, we are in the Banca are full of enthusiasm because of the possibility of working with you and I want you to know that you can fully rely on us for support, and that you know that we understand the role of support. It's your success, not ours. The future is yours, not ours, to the extent that we can be part of this initiative and be of assistance to you. It is our privilege that this joint meeting of both homes to work with you and that I may tell you this gives you the opportunity in the years to follow, to see an even more modern and peaceful state for you and for your children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14678	Ladies and gentlemen, so, Mr. Volfenson's address, we've completed this protocol section. I thank all and the representatives, prime ministers, ministers, ambassadors, representatives of international organisations, especially Mr. Volfenson and his associates once more, and I want further success in their work. Thank you very much. I respect Mr. Moranjkić's suggestion that MPs sit down... The College in consultation with the club presidents analyzes the course of the session, how much of the agenda we will implement and, since we have planned two days' work, decide on a further afternoon follow-up. Because of the importance of the agenda point, because of the real importance of the Tax Act on additional value, the fact that we worked today, most club presidents are in favour of continuing to work in the morning at 900 hours, opening with that agenda point. Here, I'll keep you informed and ask that we be ready at 900 in the morning and keep working. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 1500 hours. 34 Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, continue the work of the 43rd session of the House of Representatives. Yesterday we jointly agreed on a follow-up, this morning at 9:00 p.m. at 17th, that's Ad.17. The proposal for a tax code on additional VAT value in first reading We have enough quorum and we can work and decide fully. I would like to remind you that the draft law was delivered to Parliament's House of Representatives on 28.07., that the ustavno-pravni Law gave an opinion on the constitutional basis on 02.08., that the Commission responsible for Finance and Budget Report on the examination of the proposal for a law had submitted to you 02.09. The Commission adopted 27 amendments. In plenary phase 1, the amendment was submitted by Mrs Seada Palavrić, and I also received amendments from Mr Momčilo Novaković, who in the opinion of our services were not delivered within a business deadline. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a tax code on additional value in the first reading. For now, if I'm looking exactly at the report, Mr. Mirko Blagojevć, did you sign up? You're not. Then it's a technical mistake. Muhamed Moranjkić, are you Mr. Moranjkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14680	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14681	Well Mr. Mladen Potočnik, that's the order, so Mr. Sead Avdić. That's the order of the reported. So, Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, here you go, Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14682	..this discussion, however, because it is a system law, as it is a law which, whose importance is not specifically spoken of, I think, would be the easiest thing to say by the way, by the way that the Prime Minister, or possibly the competent minister, but to come out with an explanation, with some kind of elaborate, with all that is appropriate, from one small and milder law than this. About his importance, it's really pointless, so I'd ask you to tell us if anyone has any intention of talking to us on this subject, if anyone has any intention of telling us how this happened. Does anyone have any intention of telling us what the Council of Ministers has delivered to us, what about it, because the commission has made structural changes. Is there any intention, then, that 35 of us, if we can't hold the presidency, then do they have the possibility that at least the heads of the MPs' clubs at least the ruling parties will tell us if they stand behind the Council of Ministers' proposal and behind the Council of Ministers in principle, and then to conduct a debate that is appropriate?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14683	I understood the importance of intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14684	Thank you for understanding the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14685	So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers officially informed me yesterday when I discussed his presence for this point that he was on his official trip to Russia. So here we have Deputy Minister of Finance of BiH, Mr. Kumalić, who is changing the minister, the resolution minister, and he can give answers and should give answers to all who are looking for the law here, so I think that we can open the debate and whether or not we will be satisfied with the answers, talks and views of the parties, it is up to the representatives here to continue to comment, debate and conclude. Say Mr. Lagumdžija,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14686	Mr. Chairman, it's clear... but I think that before our questions, anyone will tell us anything from the promoter. It would be good if Mr. Kumalić, who gave us some sort of opening notice on the commission, introduced the House to everything that's going on here. Or anyone I think is authorized. It's no one, okay. He can give us Čarls Dikens. He sent us a letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14687	Tell Mr. Gligorić, before the debate, is it a business intervention? Just business interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14688	Our club also feels that someone should come and talk to us or answer us. We do not insist, if the prime minister is officially absent, but our public expects when it comes to this item of the agenda, and we ourselves have so indicated in our public yesterday where today's debate is expected with special interest and what we will decide about this law. I therefore believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers had to provide an adequate replacement or even a Council of Ministers to sit here because he made a statement yesterday that this time he would allow Parliament to discuss it and
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14689	...business intervention, now for debate to apply
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14690	It is fine as chairman, but if the prime minister can make such a statement underestimating this Parliament, that this time before the elections he will allow parliamentarians to decide, and after that we will see, it is one threat to Parliament and indeed one unmeasured statement that should at least provide the full composition of the Council of Ministers and give their presence the importance of this agenda. Well, it's not just Parliament in this country to take care of the citizens. It should be run by executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14691	Thank you. Beriz Belkić, same business.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14692	Here I am joining in order to do well... but in one different way than what people are talking about. I think it would be good, mentioning the expertise, mentioning calculations, mathematics, etc. That before our debate, so we get information that we don't have at this point unfortunately, to tell us how it is, is it true that the administration isn't qualified or is trained, can take more steps, etc., to bring us into the debate with those things that we haven't objectively had this, the possibility of being introduced. Here's the directive we got on the commission, probably even the MPs got it. Let's also remind ourselves of the Law on a system of indirect taxation, where certain things are given, etc. Not to wander, to try to work rationally. So, to get us introduced this way, prepare for further discussion. The consequences of the emerging models are very important. You have the original model, you have the finance and budget model, more rates, etc., to give us some competent data, so that we can make easier decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14693	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. So I suggest that word, Mr. Vinko Zorić. And as chairman, I will give my word to Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance before I give my word to the debated. Here, that's the order. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14694	Here's how I don't mind having the deputy minister address us here, but speaking to us here and... from the Agricultural Association, etc. But I don't want him to give us an introduction to one law, someone who's not authorized to say, I accept that amendment, I'm authorized, I can accept something, etc. If it's not a competent person, I don't see any reason why we're spending all day on political stories about VAT. And I agree with the people here who suggested, I don't know if they're for the same reasons as me, that this is an important topic that no one from the Council of Ministers is here today. I actually think it should have been a complete composition when something this revolutionary is introduced into the Tax System in BiH. And I think this, we could postpone our Parliament's session and if someone can't postpone the trip or everyone from the Council of Ministers if they can't postpone their duties. So, I don't want to name anyone individually here, or the Prime Minister, or the Minister of Finance, or anyone, but I don't think that if there's any ministers or the chairman of the Council of Ministers here, then either we're not talking about a very important topic or they don't care or anything is wrong. And it seems to me that this is the last one, that something's wrong, because yesterday we had this on the agenda, and now it seems to me that the session's been interrupted because of this letter that we got on the bench this morning. 37 I want here completely open this one, talk to you. Not that I think, but I'm sure, and I didn't know that. Which didn't say, someone's gonna talk there, I'm not saying this, Mr. President, that you knew, but someone who insisted on breaking up, because I'm saying that the HDZ Club and the SDS Club and the Club Club, 2-3 mixed clubs were yesterday to keep working last night until we're exhausted, to finish. But this one, I think we've unseriously started the story of, I don't know, whether I'm using the sometimes heavy qualifications, but for me, this is a revolutionary thing in posdayton BiH, introducing VAT taxes on extra value. And, uh, let's set ourselves up a little bit at the beginning of how we're going to work today. Are we going to spend all day on the VAT Act or are we going to make quality conclusions, if we're going to extend the amendment phase, if we want the representatives of the commission to meet with this board of directors. Well, I don't suppose this Governing Board is a bigger body in this country than the Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly. Let's get my people to agree. If they have greater sense or greater knowledge, let them sit down with our commission, not communicate through letters. At the Parliamentary Assembly, on her commissions and both at home is the law. If the Parliamentary Assembly, or its committees do not adopt amendments, repairs, do not propose this House or another committee to the House of Peoples, that law and they do not adopt, there is no law. Let's not play, let's start with serious things, seriously talk, and my proposal is final that all those who have something to say about this matter and who will lead to a constructive conclusion, whether it's a postponement of the debate, an extension of the amendment phase, but in any case I think, that everyone just a little, nine, ten, is, how many members of the Council of Ministers and deputy ministers should be at a meeting when this is a topic. Of course, when I say this, everyone, I don't mean literally everyone, because it can happen, here's not all the MPs here, present but we have a thick quorum and this one, so my proposal is to briefly agree that the HDZ Club won't, in particular, participate in the debate, to agree. We will accept every constructive conclusion as to how we continue to work, only that on such a serious subject in the pre-elections we do not run an empty story, because that is not what our voters expect of us. Not someone voted for me to talk about VAT, that it would be good in local elections, but someone voted for me to bring a high-quality VAT, to arrange the tax system, and to make this state richer and to make the citizens, what they pay for part of the tax, part of the margin to the trader, and to pay for the goods they spend and not only to pay for the goods and to end it all in private pockets. So that's what we're asked to do, not run this empty story here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14695	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Please, I've opened the debate and I don't see anything controversial. The Deputy Minister can contact the Rules of Procedure any time he wants. It's my suggestion that in the beginning, we open the debate in order and I don't see what's controversial. Yesterday, by looking at opinions, we opened up the possibility that everyone today would say, prepare both ministers and the Council of Ministers. And I don't know what's here this morning, but MPs have the opportunity to say through the debate everything they think about the law, about the position of the Council of the Direct Taxation Board, and don't let us conduct the debate before the debate. I have a number of representatives, no one's right is denied, the agenda point is determined, and I think that's the way to go into debate. We assume our share of responsibility as representatives of this law. As anyone will refer to the letter, let him speak here and be determined later by a vote. I'll give my word now, so no suggestions, the debate is open. You're proposing through the debate. Point's on the agenda. And I mean, there's nothing to discuss, it's the agenda point, pick up the word and say whatever you think. 38, Deputy Minister, you have your word. I've registered five reports so far for the hearing. Mr. Moranjkić, Potočnik, Avdić, Kunić, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14696	I mean, I'm very sorry that there really isn't, is not present at the chairman's office or that there are no Finance Ministers present, or members of the board of directors. It really is about breaking moments, fiscal reforms in BiH. In the shortest lines, the introduction of value added tax as a substitute for the existing sales tax on products and services in BiH should be joined by modern countries. Today, there are more than 140 countries in the world of value added tax, all EU members and it is a binding form in the EU. It was first introduced in France in 1956, Germany in '67. and then brought in other countries of Europe. Today, all EU members have it. From the theoretical point of view it is considered the most modern form, it marked the end of the 20th century and also, the bearer is in structure as tax form, the bearer is in tax systems in all member states and in the twenty first veil. Today it means they have all the countries of Europe, except for Serbia that are introducing it these days. Our neighbours Croatia introduced it in '98, Slovenia in '99, Macedonia last year and Montenegro, and we, as things go, should be half next year. The very fact that we have decided on this reform and that we are going to pass the Value Added Tax Act is a big step forward, and the legal basis, the basis for the adoption of this law, makes the Law on indirect taxation that was passed last year and which regulates how much rules should be laid down in order to pass this complex law. The law is expected to reintegrate BiH's economy, create a single economic space, reduce evasion and corruption, boost the country's macroeconomic stability, finally have its fiscal and financial sovereignty. In order for these conditions to be met, i.e. the curative objective, it is necessary to achieve the construction of a market economy. Market economy means it's looking for a modern, modern tax system that's immaterial to the market economy, which we can't say isn't. So the tax system is required to respond to a series of challenges. First of all, to perform the function of fiscal, social, development, etc. When we accepted all this, for a long time this complex tax form has been working on the law of value added tax. Last year, KAFAO did so, together with representatives of domestic experts, and then the law was proposed, i.e. the structure of the law with one standard and one lower tax rate. However, all I can say is this, few problems arise when Mr Dikson asked the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission for a recommendation to introduce value added tax with one profession. So, the Council of Ministers received a proposal, with two tax rates, 20 and 10 and normal with liberating rates but in the meantime came a recommendation to adopt one tax rate. I will now try to explain what a tax rate means. From a theoretical and practical point of view, one tax rate means a more stable tax system, mainly insisting on by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. They stand at the point that our tax administration is not equipped enough, not dressed enough to apply standard and lower rates. This finding is to be 39 objectively quite realistic. However, in the EU of 25 countries, 23 countries have a standard and one or more lower rates. Also, from transition countries only Croatia has one rate, all others have one rate. The question is raised here, and this is for Parliament to decide that is what the chairman said, whether we are going to run social policy by taxes or we are going to run it through social programmes. It is real when this thing is analysed, the fact that social policy is now being run by social programs in BiH, it is quite questionable. Furthermore, what is the advantage if they were two feet, or standard and lower. In that case, where I stand especially, and that should perhaps be this crucial, question of economic structure. The economic structure of BiH is very unstable. And she can't stand the introduction of bigger or lower, she can't handle the change in tax rates. What is most difficult for me is that a 17% rate would hit the food industry and at this point, it would be structural price changes and without further ado, in order to trigger a price increase in social products. Furthermore, there would be an expression of the negativeity of value added tax, in that its regression would result in full expression. But yesterday at the House of Peoples, indeed, one amendment was very good, which is scheduled to introduce a standard and lower rate. With those rates, I'm just commenting on that amendment. From the occasion he predicts that the rates are liberating, means zero, for products that are now the same condition to remain, then for lower with a 10% cannon, to be goods that are also now, these are children's needs and some food products, I mean both detergents and construction and everything else to be in the 20% rate. This proposal is indeed constructive and this was the first proposal by the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Management Board. So, before they got the recommendations from the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. This proposal provides a fiscal effect as well as a rate of 17%, respectively, of the current situation. So what I'm saying is that the rate of a 17% single provides the fiscal effect of 20 and 10 that we now have in the existing system. Any change endangers that fiscal effect. So, I mean, I would ask parliamentarians to work constructively at all, we have a few questions to decide first. The value added tax is really too serious. First of all, please decide how many feet we want, if we're going to stay at one standard of 17%, it's really up to you to decide and I think the chairman thought it. If you choose two feet, then it means standard and lower, then really the Ministry of Finance has to do an extremely high-quality recalculation to provide enough revenue, which is at least at the present level. Let me point out that with this proposal for an amendment yesterday at the House of Peoples, on the committee of the House of Nations, there is no additional burden. And while some of these suggestions that were on your commissions are extremely bad... because agriculture is regulated by special schemes. I think it's enough for this introduction. So, I'm asking you to decide how many feet, then we could talk about the extent of the release, the threshold of taxation and possibly the deadline for the return. You should also look back at the schematics a little bit. Schemes regulate this threshold of taxation is 50,000, so special treatment has agriculture. Me for a start so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14697	I thank Mr. Kumalić, Deputy Minister of Finance. Business intervention Mr. Nikola Špirić, second deputy chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14698	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, this is a precedent for me, for a member of the Council of Ministers to come out and not defend the proposal given by the Council of Ministers, but for the amendments of the second House. This is only for me to begin the disaster in the debate on the most important legal project for BiH citizens since we sit in this mandate. I expected that a member of the Council of Ministers would defend the proposal offered by the Council of Ministers, give a bill, even in defense as if our amendment were a bad commission and that it was good for the House of Nations since yesterday. I'm asking you to let us conduct a serious debate. A member of the Council of Ministers is asked to defend the Council of Ministers' proposal. I guess that makes sense and normal. I just don't get it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14699	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Špirić. Please, I have a sequence of reports. Mr. Lagumdžija business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14700	Mr. Chairman, since we got on the bench, this letter from the Management Board for indirect taxation, and I've seen this letter now, as I assume the largest number of us. I didn't realize what Mr. Zorić referred to until I saw this. Now I get it. I believe you had it before we did. The letter was signed by the finance minister, entity finance ministers and board members including the chairman of the Management Board. It would be good, Mr. Chairman, if someone could explain this letter to us from the Management Board more, which is why I am saying this, Mr. Chairman, in the letter, it says that the Management Board has been exclusively insisting on the original draft proposal since 30 June 2004. You weren't on the committee, but on the committee here are some members of the commission, Mr Belkić and Mrs Leho, Mrs Ruža, and not to mention others, a new bill has been delivered to us at that session of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14701	Just tell me what business intervention is in what sense you're applying for Mr. Lagumdžija's hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14702	Business intervention, to explain to us what is finally the law ahead of us. This letter from the board of directors because the letter of the board of directors returns the law of 30.07. that told us not to look at it anymore because it has a law of 30.08. And here again, the board of directors returned to us yesterday a law that told us five days ago that it was no longer valid. And Mr. Belkić even had amendments to that new bill, right, Berize? Who have been adopted, and it would really be the easiest thing to say is that this hearing is made clear to us by someone from the Management Board or by making sure that all of this together is not valid and that we are simply acting on the report of the Commission and then moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14703	Please, before us is the law which is, whose component is the Commission's report. Representatives shall determine both this letter and the positions we have heard and allow us to conduct a discussion and to act responsibly. Business intervention, Mr. Džaferović. Please, for a moment, we're moving on to a debate. Don't conduct a discussion through the offices of interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14704	Just as long as it takes a business intervention. So I think it's clear to all of us in this room, and that's why I'm surprised during the debate that the official bill that is in the parliamentary procedure today is what the Finance Commission and the budget of this House have adopted. You know this well, Mr Lagumdžija, we have done so far in 120 cases how much we have passed the law, at least in this conference, therefore the unique rate is not the subject of the official text of the law before the MPs. The matter differentiated the rate, 17.80, as determined by the House of Representatives committee unanimously. And that's what we're discussing today. That's official, please, 18 sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14705	I thank Mr. Džaferović, the word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please welcome Mr. Moranjkić. I ask everyone to respect that everyone wants to talk and debate and to respect each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14706	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to say a few words about this issue because I've been following it since the arrival of this material to us MPs, through conversations not to say the seminars carried out by the International Community with Mr. Hejs, with experts from this area, here so far. What I can say is that the VAT law is more than systemic, more than reform, more than important and considered one of the most important laws found in the benches of this Parliament so far. What I am as an MP and as a man and as a citizen by little wonder, not to say that I am disappointed, that such a very important topic comes to this House at a small door. This small door has now been shown at the beginning of this Parliament that it too has been torn up, that such a very important matter has passed without a broad public debate at a bar in associations of business in associations in citizenship, etc. and it is normal that it has caused a certain storm and that storm is still in public because there are various information and information and misinformation of the effects of this law. We have been offered the truth with a standard single rate in the proposal and how much it could be seen that the proposal was done by the international community with a group of our experts, that it calculated that these 17% and enough and necessary at this time to fill the budget according to current needs without having a major impact on the standard of citizens, in other words not to bring together a certain number of products and goods used both in public consumption and otherwise among citizens. We've been talking to those experts at the head of Hejs, and we've asked these questions. He told us what Mr. Kumalić had just said, gentlemen, that such a system is only by our assessment and the assessment is possible in this time to be applied to BiH, for various reasons. True, I was partly skeptical as a man listening to that story, and in part there's probably a little bit of truth in the light of our equipment, of the arrival of a new 42 system in this system, etc., so let's say we left that problem vulnerable to me 100% or clear or vague. Further reasons that it will be a stable tax system, I think as a man it really will and that it is as it is, it makes that position come true. But the simplest way for them and the only technique for now is to implement the VAT, they couldn't convince me, and I'm expressing it here today as my simple non-acceptance, that I can't get up unless I'm one of the simplest at one rate. Furthermore, that there will be no price disturbance because 17% says the same thing as 21 plus 10% calculated mathematically, is true but on those goods and services on which 21 plus 10% has been calculated so far. However, we have a load of slaves, one of whom is under the number one food, who did not have it. Therefore, there is no expert who can say that this segment will not suffer the purchases, or be a blow to the standard as it is in our country. And normally, that until it's settled, I as an MP can't normally vote for it. I'd be this guy somehow if I didn't say abnormal but I wouldn't allow it anyway. But that abuses, crime, fictitious companies and tax evasion will be prevented, eh, for that I vote with both hands but we must also meet those other conditions. And secondly, that this will fill the budget the way we planned it and the obligations of this country to be carried out according to what we have on the outside and on the inside, etc. However, in addition to what the international community says, we told them what the country's citizens say. So we said, gentlemen, you're taking this proposal to the weather at a bad time. The seventh month, according to us so far in our tax procedure, is the time when we don't have any fractures and will cause one and the technical and this each other this one, the disorder and not in time, well, they've probably said that this can and normally I'm alluding already here, that this time period that's mentioned there is the 7th month, that it's being moved to the one that's more adapted to us when it comes to lists, calculations, whether some time frame like six months is whether per year or so. And, of course, that's what I'm standing on. However, it is said further that the collection will lead to galoping inflation, a galloping devaluation in the country, that there will be a failure of the economy, that there will be far greater unemployment which is otherwise a rock on the neck in this country for all of us, etc. The truth is, if this is released first, it's true that this will inevitably come as a result, which means that before that, we need to do a shop so that we don't get to what the citizens are suggesting. They simply responded to that, so they said the truth would be, then they admitted, individual blows to standard, the truth would be to individual gatherings. But what Mr. Minister, the Deputy Minister says, we must here in these benches to determine whether social affairs will be resolved by the tax system or by the social care programmes. This now imposes exactly this definition of this Parliament, and it is normal to have logic and to suggest that we have a community. It suggests that we deal with these problems primarily with social programmes and not at this point in terms of tax and fiscal policy. What I would still point to is that the sixth EU directive or the Council of Europe, which suggests a lot of things, has been put on our benches. Amongst other issues of VAT introduction and it has been said that there are different rates in theory and in practice and that we are not ordered to have a single rate. So we are left with the possibility that we can apply more rates, which depends on the policy and the programme that this country is running and these people who lead the economy and lead life in this country, what we want to achieve. But, they say, let's let it go beyond the standard rate that could be introduced to goods and services that so far had 21 plus 10%, which has otherwise been implemented in life, he wouldn't have disturbed 43, let there be so-called. lower rates, but it is said that the standard rate in the EU must not be less than 15%. So, we've come by some kind of budget to cover our situation with somewhere 16.5 to 17, for each reserve it's taken 17% to cover that part means goods and services that have moved from 21 plus 10% so far. However, those other ones that were zero, such as food, etc. They must be dealt with at other rates and there are lower rates. These lower rates in the EU should not be more than 15 and below 5%. So, in that term, and that's what Mr. Kumalić says, a solution has been found to sort of be goods and services with 10%. Whether that's 10%, 8%, 5%.6%, that's what this Parliament and our experts should say, adequately to this state of our country, which is what's appropriate. And normally, there are lower reduced rates, theoretically they descend to a zero of 5%. They are avoided because the introduction of this creates a glue that would involve crime and come to the same perhaps position that we were in, and VAT would not have the effects that it did. And normally, there are zero rates. This is where the concept of zero and zero rates mix. The zero rate is something else, and the zero is something else. With a zero rate, customs and taxes are released. And that is why, here and in this letter, it is intended to be adequate for our policy of development exports covered with a zero rate because it would all be released so that we could normally adequately improve these exports in a certain way, etc. And as a man, I suggest that we as an MP, that we have more rates. However, after our final decisions, a complete customs tariff burden is being weighed, to determine the rates from a to c goods and services and to normally say which we will in a certain way benefit from, etc. I, as a man, repeat once again, am not for anything that will lead to the collection and which will, especially those standard food and medicine, etc. There, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14707	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14708	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the adoption of the VAT law is a serious matter but not tragic. 25 EU countries have it, even Russia has it, unlike Russia, America does not have it, it has a different system. When we think and analyze what needs to be done with VAT, we have to consider three segments. One segment is state, one segment is economy and agriculture, and one segment is the life of people, that is, their social security. In order for all three segments to be in harmony, in my opinion, it is necessary that we have a standard rate, a reduced rate and a zero rate. I'm also a firm stance that this should be 20, 10 and 0 because in this way, in the global budget, nothing less would be charged but liquidated at the beginning of the process and would lead to a single order in, leading to a single order in the country. Connecting VAT to crime, I don't think that's justified. Crime is solved with inspections, police, and the law itself won't change that. Crime is a thing that is not legally solved. The law gives only grounds for that. As for the social moment, we have 400,000 pensioners in BiH, which means that 800,000 people practically live on very low incomes. With a tax rate of 0, it should be all those products that directly affect the social level, and also 10% should be just those that are related to the production and resuscitation of production. The illusion of exports is an illusion that BiH will not experience in the short term. We must first of all opt to survive ourselves and stimulate agriculture, the economy, the food industry and only then think about real exports. 44 To conclude, the rate of three degrees is the same as we have today, which means that technically we rule it and there's no problem whether it's one tax rate or three. The international community cannot take that as an argument. And secondly, there is no point in introducing VAT in half the year, but at the beginning of the year. This is unacceptable from the point of view of accounting, it is unacceptable from the experience of European and other countries. Niko does that and it doesn't make sense. So three feet and the introduction of VAT by 01. 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14709	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Sead Avdić. Let Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14710	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the respected presidency, dear guests, should once again underline that this is a system-based strategic law that is fighting for macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability in BiH. So the law that is at the heart of the economic strategy and the reintegration of BiH's economic space. Which means, objectively, Mr. Chairman, maybe we should have methodologically created this session a little differently. And that means, without all the relevant participants involved in the preparation of this project. So, working groups that have worked on draft laws, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate and all relevant participants to sit with Parliament and we simply hear what they are contradicted opinions on the relationship between the International Community, the Council of Ministers, the IRS. Which means we don't have a minimum chance to give MPs the necessary quantum of information on evolution as it comes to this law. If I tell you that the Deputy Minister has confirmed that the law has been made with two rates, i.e. three, 20-10th rates and that, directly at the Council of Ministers' meeting, it has been changed to a single rate, to an IMF intervention, etc. What does that tell you people? So are we so far, so limited in economic sovereignty that we have no ability to even know how to pass one bill at the Council of Ministers, with our own knowledge, with our own intelligence, with our own responsibility of people. Why the Council of Ministers today, with a law like this other than a respected deputy minister, no one is here. Which means I don't think MPs have enough information, not to say self-critically that we probably don't have enough knowledge of this complex law, because it's a key law from economic theory and practice, a key law for the country's macroeconomic stability, a key law for the future of this country, which means let's be self-critical. It is objectively whether we have the knowledge to decide on such a strategic law for BiH, which means we need to ask ourselves. Which means that without these, without such a structure of participants in the debate on this law, I don't think we have the right to allow ourselves such freedom that we are simply galling today in the first reading of this law. So my proposal is quite clear. All participants who have come, who have led to this law, in full agreement with the Council of Ministers to discuss the most important law on BiH's macroeconomic stability. Now I'm asking you here where are our PRSP representatives, where is this strategy of economic development that we've been discussing, where are all these great documents of the strategy that we're working on within the Council of Ministers, where are these participants today, why are they hiding when it's such a difficult temptation for BiH, where is this scientific thought that's concentrated in the working group that we paid for a million and a few marks last year just remember, a million and I don't even know how many thousands we paid for that economic strategy, where is the thought here today? Instead of being forced by the IMF, so on and so forth. People have to wonder where we are today. Which means that I disagree with this procedure and this is more than the law, this is a maximum of 45 sophisticated BH Parliament policies that it needs to create. We don't have to make the law. It is a shame for Parliament to correct the Council of Ministers' law with these many amendments. Really, people, doesn't the Council of Ministers have this fundamental part of the responsibility to offer a law that parliamentarians will partially amend with amendments but not essentially bring it down because by multi-stage introduction of VAT, it's a knock-off of the law strategy. One-degree VAT and a multi-stage VAT, it's a strategic change in the law. This is no longer the same law, which means that the Deputy Minister has not answered these questions of evolution as the law has arisen, as this has...there been a change in a one-stage, or multi-stage VAT with a one-stage VAT rate or a single VAT rate, etc. how we simply bypassed the scientific public of BiH, how we got these powerful strategies that we have, how we bypassed the simple scientific thought and everything else that BiH does, how we bypassed these lettering associations, write in hope how to and otherwise affect the adoption of the law. You might think, we have entities that need to be consulted in the process of passing laws and we're bypassing them. Then they send letters out of inability to the messengers of the letter. Well, that's embarrassing people. Well, that really doesn't make sense. Well, these associations have to consult, so this is fundamental law. As it is bypassed, as the trade unions are bypassed, how the employers' associations are bypassed, how simply a series of institutions, associations etc. are bypassed, etc. So, in the preparation of this law, such a Siok degree of improvisation and palitivity, it's unprecedented and it's about the most important law for BiH. I repeat another time, the most important law for BiH. Under three, I don't suppose we're going to be in this Parliament, trust by voting hands or simply by the number of votes to determine whether they're going to be one-degree VAT or multi-stage. Whether to be a single tax rate or simply a multiple tax rate. Well, it's a shame that we're solving a key strategic simple issue of this law. And neither the Council of Ministers nor the International Community nor the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate agrees, etc. Well, we're not really going to have to decide with our hands what's more important and what's better for this country. Please, yes, by electronic vote. Which means I don't think we have the right to mess with the future of this country. We have enough I would say critical volume and scientific thoughts in BiH from economic theory and practice, and I think we can simply today not, discuss. I suggest we not conclude this session, invite all these relevant participants to the International Monetary Fund for the next session, until those who write us letters. Not by letters, but directly at the session and in this context to face opinions. And the Council of Ministers in full presence at the House of Representatives meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is a question that is simply more than simply past laws that have been before us so far. And finally, let me tell you, we are a country in transition, a poor country with a minimal DJDM per capita. Which means, in this sense, we cannot afford freedom, as the deputy minister also said, Moranjkić that we can solve social policy with tax policy. That's not allowed. That would be a strategic mistake. We just have to solve social programs. That's how social policy is solved in every country. So if we turn around to solve social policy in tax policy, then that's already a big problem. It means we don't have a minimum consensus on this issue. We have no consensus. And another particularly sophisticated one reports that a single rate will introduce a order of substituted grey economy, crime, corruption, and that the country will have billions in entity budgets, or BiH as a whole. They must explain this to us how a single VAT tax rate rate will allow for the substitution of crime in BiH. How, in what way, what methodology? Is this up to customs policy, State Border Service, Customs Stations, border crossings, etc. how will a single rate solve the issue of crime and corruption in BiH by automaism? 46 And finally, this fellow Špirić very often mentions, I mention, simply let the people behind this stand the bill. So let's not just attribute it to the European Community, so do we have any sense and knowledge to say that we can prove mathematically whether that's 20 percent, 17 percent, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14711	I thank Mr. Avdić. The word is Dr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14712	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Presidency, he really said a lot of things to Dr. Avdić that I meant to say, but good. Really, I've been looking for an over-the-counter part of business intervention. I also didn't win, the president, probably the chairman didn't notice. Let me just say, it really has to be said that it's inconclusive by the executive authority. I was talking to the executive yesterday about how he behaves. So it says the parliamentary system in BiH is not functioning. The parties to prularism are not working because some parties are unable to overcome their vanity and to see mistakes in their ranks and words to the minister concerned, except for the exceptions, whether it is in the function of the election campaign, I really don't know what pointed to one fact yesterday, Mr. Novaković calling the minister, he should have been called long ago, he should have been called, because he is the minister of justice who could look at the laws, to take a more active position on the Council of Ministers. But I don't know if he's sleeping or what he's doing. I hear that often this one, that's what he does. We could make a lot of laws more correct in a nomotechnical sense. It's a minister of justice who knows the right to become more involved in the work. The situation is similar today. We bring one, all the predecessors say, one of the key laws, no chairman of the Council of Ministers, objectively absent. There's a deputy president of the Council of Ministers, there is. Is the deputy and president out there? They probably are. You're not going anywhere in the world to find the president and the deputy. There's got to be some order in the country. There's no order here, but there's no order. And that's why I don't know her, I respect the Deputy Minister, but really, given that this is a law, a number of members of the Council of Ministers should have attended this session. However, if the real situation is considered, so the concept of creating legislation in BiH, then no wonder. We have adopted the Law on indirect taxation which says that the Management Board for indirect taxation in many segments is under the authority of the Council of Ministers. I warned this Parliament on that occasion, which was accepted and the law is gone. And as we can see here, the Management Board is dominant, but it would be nice and correct, we chose Mr Dikson as director or chairman of the Management Board, which is what, uh, it would be good if he sent someone or that he came, because this is the fundamental thing that sort of defines BiH's future. Of course, and this law doesn't have an analytical basis, and it would have to contain an analytical basis. So, precisely, numerically, let's see what that means? It is possible to come, especially today, with the possibility of using modern technology. It is possible to reach indicators and give these indicators to Parliament, that Parliament has and that on the basis of these exact indicators, of course in the economy it is difficult to provide certain exact data, but it is approximately. And, of course, Parliament could make decisions a lot easier or give some different solutions. In this House, I have never met any alternative solutions. You in parliaments have different solutions. Different solutions are offered. We don't have that. So, the preparatory phase of decisions is very bad, and that's a matter of the Council of Ministers. 47 Of course, that I really welcome that dimension, the function of this law that goes in the direction of preventing corruption, organised crime, etc. But I'm afraid, as some others have already pointed out, that without the behavior of all of us, there will be no use in that direction. It won't be good for the parties and how they're connected to organised crime. They are linked, that in BiH is explicitly proven x examples, and nothing in this respect is done. It is yet to be suggested that the frames that are compromised in this regard, etc. So we're going to continue to have this situation, so what's the worst part in one country, especially in transition, we're going to continue to have a gap between real and normative. We can have ideal projections, ideal laws, but if behavior goes on and on and on and on, then we'll have a situation like this. Many of the subjects were involved in the creation of this text, indeed. And now we've got a mix of who... general mess this, what's good. We're not in some things understated enough, so we can decide what's the best version. I did say no of these exact indicators, so we had to have really one better one, this was a nice and really correct explanation, but probably should have given some political dimension to the leading people on the proposal for this text. Like some of the predecessors, I prefer the differentiated rate. So, maintain at least an existing state. At least the existing situation, that we don't create confusion among citizens, that we don't create additional burdens, that they don't collect those elemental products, and in that sense, I like some amendments that propose with all these, and that is, all of the lists of certain types of products for the zero rate, to include books. I think that's what it takes. Maybe I'm indicating that I'm in that sphere, but I think we really should. My thoughts moved at the beginning to delay this debate, to delay the debate and to open up in some way a public debate. We had to, it was a fundamental law to allow various interested associations and citizens to give their opinions on this law. I think that was necessary and I would have been, my thoughts are in that direction, I would have been really for this Parliament to decide that we give public debate for at least 20 to a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14713	I thank Mr. Kunić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14714	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words. I'll be very brief, at least as much as my ability from this area allows, but let me stress one thing first. I think it's a good thing this law came to Parliament. It's not a good thing he's turning around like this, because if he came in a month, it'd be the same. We wouldn't have had the presidency again, but we would have had it again, so we had to run this procedure and I think he's good. The other thing is one general confusion that arises and I would say to citizens and politicians themselves. I watched on Mr. Dikson's TV that said we weren't able to get a higher VAT rate. Mr. Dikson, we're capable of finding holes in 48 laws, and let's not apply these rates. So don't worry. It's important to pass the law, and it's important that this law has its exact indicators, what should be done. We're capable of introducing a multi-degree with a cannon of taxation. On the other hand, I would even agree with this law that this law is accompanied by an instruction, which is now being stimulated by this VAT. If books are stimulated, I don't mind introducing a single rate. In food if domestic food production is stimulated, I don't mind the same. However, this introduction is 17% by sight I would say to the citizens and ourselves, the absolute bankruptcy of those who are doing something now, and I simply think there will be a total blow to the BiH citizenship. For these reasons, the amendments that have been submitted and in which we have participated in these amendments, have just respected all these elements to introduce a multi-stage VAT rate that would allow certain, I would tell the defenders that, as is the publication of books, I here must say that we have not found science, scientific research, so here I am saying that in these difficult conditions, it is still working and doing business properly and honestly. Since we don't have any more adequate indicators, it was very awkward for me yesterday to be in the lobby on a break in which I met with people who came for VAT, and we didn't keep it, who suggested not to introduce VAT and they proposed 17% and they suggested what we are doing here today in Parliament. So it's a multi-degree rate. Here, since we don't have an indicator, let me just say that what I've been handling is that of the 25 EU countries, 23 have a higher tax rate. So why am I going to be, Denmark is not, and bogami am not even Slovakia. So I can ask myself for parities in these 23 that apply these things. I'm sorry there are no ministers and the government sitting here. The fact that they're gone, we've invited them. As far as I know, I haven't seen them by now, I think 1% or 2% at these meetings, so if they don't attach importance to this law-making Parliament, I'm in favour of us having a debate with all the proposals and suggestions that have been made, if we have to and extend the debate to satisfy here, this democratic requirement, and then when we come to the elements of the passing of this definitive law, we'll call them once again and we'll pass the law as suggested by those who led the debate and us here MPs. After all, we were elected in direct elections and they were proposed by God by the parties and we gave them their consent again, so let them imagine. I won't be imagining whether or not there are any more. Yours is correct to invite them, and theirs is the incorrect behavior that is now being expressed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14715	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mr. Duraković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14716	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I really cannot say at first that I am very unhappy and disappointed with the relationship of the legislator. It is therefore a significant law for BiH, which, as the proposaler on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Mr Kumalić pointed out, should ensure macro-economic stability, fiscal sustainability and contribute to the single economic market in BiH. So it's a very important law. I would remind you that two or three months ago, when we discussed amendments to the Customs Tariff Act here, there were over half of the members of the Council of Ministers present. There were 49 interested parties. We have discussed this three times, and today when we talk about one of these important issues, then we also have a relationship with the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Council of Ministers as a legislator of this law. That's what I wanted to point out in the introduction. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would also remind us that this is the first reading and that we are considering the principles and the need to pass this law. I want to get to the bottom of this right now. So, I don't think there's a dilemma for us whether BiH needs this law or not. The debate so far points to only one problem principle, which is the principle defined in Article 23 where a single VAT rate is mentioned. If the social and economic situation in BiH is respected, if the fact is respected that we do not therefore have a systemic approach to foster domestic production, nor do we have a system-based solution for the social welfare of the most vulnerable categories of BiH citizens, then the single VAT rate would mean a huge setback in the current situation. The reasons for introducing more VAT rates would be technically difficult, are I mean a very unserious argument. Well, we have more rates today. We have 20, 10, 0, etc. I think they're really incorrect and unacceptable reasons. And I think that this Parament must protect the most vulnerable social groups in BiH and, in some ways, when we have no other solution, at least through this law not to create a worse situation, but at least to provide any incentives, at least for agricultural production. Of course, it's a very serious subject that regulates a lot, which is to say one of the biggest instruments of macroeconomic policy in one country. And I thus express the astonishment that this is the case with one serious law or with the Council of Ministers of BiH as a proposing and even with our commission, she did not see the need to organise a public debate on this. That's why I think, so I stay in that the single VAT rate can't stay, I stay especially because there's no argument, there's no calculation why it's 17%, why it's not 15.5%, why it's not 20%, etc. I only respect Mr Kumalić's point that this rate of 17% is reportedly calculated on the basis of current incomes or tax rates. To keep that balance from chance. So this requires a serious calculation, that when we eventually opt for multiple degrees of what's called VAT rates, we know if we're reducing anything to whether we can stay at 17, 18 or we need 20. I think it's becoming one here guessing without any calculations. So, finally, I would like to say that my proposal is to return this law to the legislator with a request to organise a public debate on this subject, to give much more arguments with economic calculations or other, another alternative is to adopt this House in its first reading, and to commit our Commission on Finance and Budget to organise a public debate and open the next 30 days for new amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14717	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mr. Duraković. Let Mr. Belkić prepare himself who will be on behalf of the commission at the same time. It's all there, Mr. Novaković. You're the only one doing your job. I'll do mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14718	That there has been a lot of talk today about the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Proposer, etc. I would simply no longer show on this House that surprise as most do is whether. It is a simple fact that the hair has been pumped out of this Parliament, because it is of course the views of the ruling parties who have appointed these people whether it is. Since the ruling parties are not 50, of course, concerned about working in a way that Parliament has sovereignly decided on its own, then neither the Council of Ministers nor the individual ministers feel the need to come to this Parliament nor to hear its opinion and simply respect it so that they should be. Because they don't have any conjecture for that kind of behavior. And don't waste any more money, we're doing our job. We're passing this law. And then what we need to establish every MP here, regardless of any party or other belongings, is. Let's say this letter from the board of directors, which is at least rude. Second, rude, inexplicable (?) And with the wrong findings. In fact, they only remembered yesterday to give us a letter. I guess when they found out that this agenda point was moved today, because it carries here exactly says 7th that the session was held. But here, just a few findings from this letter I try to thoroughly question. In all these discussions, Mr Potočnik spoke well earlier, many simply won't see that more absolutely degutantly and inadmissiblely, comparing us with the most developed countries in the world and Europe. That these gentlemen once realize that BiH is the most underdeveloped country or other background in Europe. That's one. That in BiH, the population is proportional, the least employed. So we have a lower employment rate in Europe throughout. That we have the highest pensioners in Europe proportionally, and perhaps even in the world, a single pensioner comes to Malta. Who's gonna make it, what economy? Yes, then we have the most disabled, that we have the most free to say that they are literally existentially threatened, so in fact some categories and at the border of hunger. When all this is taken together, then the gentlemen tell us you must apply European standards. We are not Sweden, unfortunately, neither Germany nor France nor Denmark nor Switzerland etc. It's just that when we talk about VAT, we have to take care of these social categories. The conclusion here is that if a differentiated VAT rate is introduced, it will be compromised, not social programs... that are insane. So the ones I'm talking about right now are going to be threatened if we're going to introduce a unique rate that predicts that the Genšer one, what they call Mercedes or the latest Audi, has the same rate as the children's food or the basic cure for the sick. That is, those who suggest it, here is said of 25 EU countries in 23 different rates. When a rich Swedish has a differentiated program just protecting those socially old, sick, powerless, I don't know about children's food, etc. And we are in this situation, so we don't need to take care of it, because gentlemen tell us that this will significantly complicate management and increase the chances of opportunities to commit fraud and evasion. Whom they're talking to, for God's sakes. In the era of these computers, what does it matter if, you know what product goes at what rate and who it is now, what it's complicated whether it is. Today everything on computers is working, there's no problem with that. It's just throwing dust in your eyes, etc. So, I support the personal proposal made by our parliamentary commission. I think he's real, that he's pretty balanced, that he takes care of these different social categories, that it won't matter to violate this, picking up to say tax, that he'll stimulate exports to many branches because zero this rate, as far as I understand it, releases and implies release from customs, etc. which, of course, will greatly stimulate and make our goods more curent on the world and European market, and in order for it to be time for us to say it, let's say it in the second phase. There's one problem here, I think that Suada has noticed well, that now these amendments should be added to the members because order and order in the bill itself have been disrupted, and that we don't consider any boards of directors. After all, they and the law are not proposing. They can only fit in with this job and this Parliament is passing these laws and finally show a little dignity, sovereignty and this state and this Parliament and simply get rid of these various pressures, often suspicious international lobbies and 51 strong men who, of course, see interest in it, and many Bogami keep Bosnia still in the colonial position it is in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14719	I thank Mr. Duraković. For the sake of insight, I will say the order of the reported. So, Mr. Belkić, Mrs. Palavrić, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14720	My colleagues and colleagues, I agreed to say a few words on behalf of the Commission, with a consultation with the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission and part of the members who were available to me. I'm glad Mr. Duraković, that someone finally mentioned that the commission was doing something and that you had a document in front of you. ________: No The Commission’s financial and budgetary report. Very interesting, but here's a statement from the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14722	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14723	I am sorry, but here I will try in the shortest, of course, not repeating what is in the report, saying a few important things to me for this Parliament and for the public. The Finance and Budget Commission, within the limits of its capabilities and capacities, has taken this legislative project very seriously, very, very seriously. Unfortunately, we were disabled in our work, so we managed in some way to preserve the process and procedure because there was some intervention during the session itself from the point of view of the final text of the law, etc. We've kind of overcome that. What's important is the words here. The Commission unanimously, when it comes to what Mr. Krstanovic was talking about, unanimously changed the principle on which the law rests. So, with the principle of one foot, she took the principle of higher rates. So, unanimously, we're going to defend that principle still here. Through the rapprochement, we see that we have no major problems here, which tells me that we could declare today the law in the first reading and support the principles on which the law rests. When we opened up the possibility of a higher rate, then we also came into a situation to consider and make amendments that used that principle at a higher rate. We've had more amendments than Mr. Novaković and Mr. Lagumdžija, etc. And we unanimously accepted these amendments, which are mentioned here, with the assurance and assurance of the promoters that there are derived mathematics that guarantee that we remain at that specific level. As far as 52 of me is concerned, the concept of the given level itself, and the given value is rather discriminatory. First of all, we've said a hundred times here that our statistics are quite inconclusive, quite insecure. I believe there's been a mechanical merger of the budgets from municipalities, cantons, through entities, etc. I don't know what methodology they've been working on and they've given themselves that size, not analyzing it in the quality and structure of what it is. Should we remain hostages of such size, hostages of so many budget consumers, hostages of such an administration that we constantly claim to be so and so on. But the promoter said that this is the given size. So, amendment promoters who used the possibility of introducing a higher-rate principle assured us and argued that it remained in the given sizes. However, unfortunately today in the new amendments, which we have received on the table, I see that some quick calculation has been calculated that this is such a model that we are proposing as a commission, damages the state by 200 million. These are the things we really need to discuss. In the end, several ideas were carried out here, and Mr. Avdić, I think, both Muhamed and Potočnik, I don't know who else not yet, to leave the possibility of an extension and some kind of terms for further amendments, etc. The Commission also predicted this possibility if you had a chance to read it. So, we have suggested that if Parliament comes to some new knowledge through its debate, new amendments, new information, promoter etc. to extend that amendment phase, etc. This gives us the possibility and the law that we very often forget that regulates the order of moves, etc. Therefore, the Law on an indirect taxation system which said that the Management Board would draw up a draft and a proposal, etc. The law in a year from the day of adoption of this law, it's December of this year, when we need to practically complete a job related to this law. However, the schemes got through, and I don't know who put them on the line on September 30th, that's what we have to do, etc. etc. So, let me finish, I ask you to take a careful look at the commission's report, if you don't have it to respect what I said, or to keep in mind when you decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14724	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mrs. Sead Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14725	Thank you. Dear President, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I cannot help but direct us some self-critics. Namely, some of my predecessors spoke of everything and at least of the law. So they're talking about what they know or what they want, not what's being discussed today. We are so concerned with the presence or absence of the Council of Ministers that we have no relevant law before us. We have an authorised promoter, a proposing representative, and I think as much as we would like here as the chairman of the Council of Ministers or Ministers of Finance, let us, please, ask the same questions to the Deputy Finance Minister, when it comes to the law itself. We get angry when we have this number of amendments to the law. And we get angry when we have the law under Article 105, so we can't stand the amendments. And we get angry when we're a little late, we don't read, so we need a new amendment phase. I think it's really time we took a look at each other and just look at ourselves. I'm trying to do it with myself. 53 [[no microphone turned on]] Just like he wasn't the subject of a colleague, but I kept my mouth shut. So I'm asking you to get serious and do what we're here to do, to discuss the laws that are on the agenda. Club heads, all parliamentary parties were invited by Ambassador Hejs to a meeting where we had, as we say, hosts, IMF directors, KAFAO, Mr Davidi, the European Commission, they told us and explained the solutions in the law and we asked them questions and presented the views of the parties. I believe every club chief has shared that with his club members. So we talked, we heard what they had to say. What the Party of Democratic Action represents, so I am speaking on behalf of the SDA Club is the fact that the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers with a single rate of 17% is certainly the best solution for BiH as a country in transition, as a country in which there is or is attributed to organised crime, corruption, evasion, not to speak. So the fact is also that indeed our tax service is not qualified to the extent that these services are in the countries of Europe and the EU. But comparing BiH with any country in Europe, I don't think it's correct because no country has even passed what BiH has been through. Any condition of the '90s. For years, whether with the state of 2000. So here we are, and whoever was listening to the World Bank director yesterday, I think he had something to hear and that the picture of BiH is not exactly what they want to introduce some of my distinguished colleagues. However, the problem with the uniform rate is the lack of a social programme that was due and has always been in debt, and today they are obliged to form entity governments. It is the mistake of all of us in this House. And ruling and opposition, because we've all been in power for the past 10 years and we haven't made entities do their job, even though we know that the largest number of rights that are very, very relevant to the survival and standard of citizens are being realised in entities. So, in the absence of such social programmes, then the SDA Club has no other option but to accept the position to go with a differentiated VAT rate, because between the situation to question the efficiency of collecting income and to further poverty the citizens who are poor, however, prevails in our understanding the interest of citizens, even through the budget should be achieved. So we're spinning around in circles, but this would really be accepting a single rate, it would be a direct blow to the citizens. At the moment when entity governments fulfill their task and offer social programmes that will achieve what was wanted by a single rate, then perhaps we can discuss a unique rate and now we can only talk about a differentiated rate. You are also witnessing that the commission has respected a good part of the amendment and has improved the law to a good extent. However, as a member of Parliament and not a commission, I attended the session, and at that time, as I recall, I could hear from the Deputy Finance Minister that the 17% rate covered the current revenues. Therefore, it ensures that the revenues now collected from the sales tax on goods and services are also achieved at a single rate of 17%. The bill for a rate of 18 and 8 and a zero is not offered on the commission. So, I didn't see her. She hasn't been offered. Well, you'll have a chance to contact and there's no problem. So, what I could find out after the commission's session in talks with the management people, with the Council of Ministers' people, is that the 18, 8 and 0 rate leads to a reduction in the current income volume, from 54 goods and services to an entire 250 million KM per year. And that means, given the way VAT will be deployed, that we'll sort of settle state needs but entity budgets will remain denied by 250 million marks. This means again that entity governments will not be able to fulfil the responsibilities they are tasked with. Not in health care, not in schooling, education, the police, everything that's in entity jurisdiction. When it comes to the date of application of the law. I'd really like to not at least argue with that, because I think the single VAT is at the state level. I wish he'd been introduced half a year or so ago, so as soon as possible, let's bring him in. And I don't think he should be controversial unless we have any other goals. And if our goal is to move BiH faster towards European integration, to make its citizens a higher standard, then I think introducing a single VAT is a priority for the whole country. I, as you can see, took advantage of the additional possibility after I learned these calculations and used Article 94 and not as I wrote in the amendment by mistake, so Article 94 point 3 (a) submitted new amendments to which I slightly corrected Amendment XI, XII and XIII of the Commission because I really believe that these aspects of the commission could not, and did not take into account when it adopted the amendments. And so, I ask you for this correction that you have in mind and I have an amendment to explain the amendments in the other position on the other side. This is about Amendment XIII, not III. And how to get out of this situation. I don't know if the delay and the new phase for the amendment gives us anything new. However, there is one fact indeed, and this is the one that Mr. Belkić pointed out earlier, that everyone is talking about his calculations, but no one is showing those calculations. I think we need to have a clear calculation, which rate differentiated, which differentiated rates allow us to collect the current level of sales and services tax, as well as the added value, so as not to endanger the basic functions of the state. Because, as much as we can through taxes, we can only ensure that the state works. It's our job, it's our interest, and in this direction we can think, possibly to deliver exact calculations on both the 17th and, if she's in my opinion, I'm speaking in fact on behalf of the SDA Club, not considered unique without social programs, but also on 18.80 and 10.20, which I'm proposing to my amendments, because I have assurances, right from the board of directors, that this is what is now being taken into account, that these are the current rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14727	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. We have two replicas, Mr. Potočnik, so Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14728	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Gospođ Sead, advocating a single rate is certainly not the solution for BiH. On the contrary, the other. And you're contradictory, defending the Council of Ministers and a unique rate, and then you're talking about a differentiated rate. I mean, I don't understand what you mean by that, with, of course, all that concern about the social moment. Without harmony, state interest, entrepreneurship and social element there is no state development. For this reason, I argue that it must only be differentiated, i.e. 3 feet of solution for the safe development of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14729	Thank you, before Mr. Avdić, the replica of Mrs. Palavrić. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14730	Well, I'm, I'm really sorry, I think I spoke so clearly and slowly, that everyone could understand it, and I don't advocate a single rate, but I totally understand the Council of Ministers' proposal and that time will show that it's the only solution that's safe. But jobs don't work by entity governments, we don't have social programs. Later, you spoke to me, replicating me, saying what I represented. Please don't argue, I don't advocate a single rate, but I understand the Council of Ministers, which proposed a single rate, I don't understand the entity governments for not doing their part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14731	Wrong quote by Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14732	So, to answer to Mrs. Palavrić for a few allegations she made. We sat together on the Commission, me as a member of the Commission, she as an applicant for the amendment. We participated in the discussion together because they were colleagues. Together, we have said that BiH is not an acceptable principle of one tax and other things. But now she says she agreed with us to go 18.80. The exact same argument, so what is missing from these amendments that we have today, we are missing, and neither has she given us the financial, the calculation of one that will argue that a quarter of millions of marks remain somewhere, that it is missing, as it was reportedly in Mr. Lagumžija in the amendments. We're back on the same page. Now I can believe it or not trust one and the other who's right. Oh, what's missing. We didn't have Mr. Hejs or Mr. Dikson or any of the other people who came in here. We sat down and a couple of people who tried different associations to explain why they didn't think the bill was adequately done. So, we've been left alone to do the best we can, so Mrs. Palavrić, please back up so we can talk about these amendments, support them, and it's not supported by what you're telling me that you've been talking to people from the Administration about this data, because people from the Administration have written and signed something quite third. This third, some kind of letter we got. So now there is confusion in Parliament and I ask that one of those who are legislators, who is behind it to explain to us, in fact, what the position of the administration is. Whether it's 20.10 or 17 is just, or something else. So this doesn't lead to anything. And, therefore, I insist that if you have any knowledge of getting to know us, or who has the knowledge to tell us what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14733	Okay, thank you very much. The replicas still have Mr Avdić and Mr Zorić. Mr. Avdić, do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14734	Appreciating the presentation of distinguished MP Palavrić, there are, however, several unsustainable thesis, which cannot be accepted. I'll only single out two. One's next. It is, that we do not need to eliminate whether the Council of Ministers will be present or not and spend time on it and that, absolutely, has nothing to do with today's agenda. The total representative Palavrić, wrongly, because the commission at home, the Commission for Finance and Budget, sat down, thought with its head and changed the essence of people's laws. It is a new law with differentiated VAT rates and now amended in full by the law, which was proposed by the Council of 56 ministers. It's not the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Deputy Minister. The Council of Ministers proposed. The House of Representatives is breaking that law, roughly speaking. So it changes the law as a whole, essentially systemically changing. And now this isn't the Council of Ministers, we don't have a proposal. That's one thing, so it's inadmissible and don't convince me, simply that the Council of Ministers doesn't need to be at this session. At this very session, it takes more than ever, to be quite clear. That's one thing. Secondly, when power is shared, then the parlmentary majority is there, normally in circulation, and when responsibility is shared, then we are all common and position and opposition to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14735	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Zorić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14736	I just wanted to say to protect myself personally and the HDZ-Democracy Club, that I don't accept this offered self-critic. Because everything that's been said from this club, and I'm, I'm just saying, I'm still signing it, and I don't want any criticism on account of it. Also, it doesn't seem that, and I mentioned it, so I feel also called and I mentioned it as one possibility of extending the amendment phase, it doesn't say that someone didn't read the law. This is confusing. And, new amendments, because they're all contained in one number, in that one number, or in those three numbers. It's all contained in this law or almost everything. So, we can't take the 010.20 here now, so social. What does social security mean? How much does bread cost? I'm here to make the bread VAT 20%, if it's 80 fening. And if it's a stamp and a zero, then it's more expensive again, because in this country someone's leading the problem of the maximum price of bread, the maximum price of milk, so we can talk to VAT and to those categories, to baby food too. Or it's a free price formation. Then the very easy association of milkmen, the association of this or that, deal with them, then it's all the same to them whether there's a VAT or no VAT. They'll form a price and so on. In fact, it's in their pocket if there's no VAT, but if we set them a price, then it's completely different. I also disagree with my colleague Palavrić. VAT as soon as possible. I mean, I don't agree to this on condition. I agree to be in the morning, if everything else is ready. Is everything else ready, gentlemen? If it is, let's go in the morning. They said it wasn't and we all know it wasn't here. And, correcting an incorrect quote along the way to counterpart Palavrić, it is not true that we are properly invited to meet at Hejs. I was here on the defense and security committee, along with my colleague and I, when I got home in the evening, found a fax to call me tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. It is not an orderly invitation, and if by chance Sopta was in Sarajevo, she was present for the meeting. It's not a neat invitation to invite someone in the afternoon to be in the morning. We have some kind of work plan and everything. I think that at these meetings, the representatives of clubs and all the other representatives, the committee members should be properly invited, but let's not play here, I suggested in my first debate, when I called in, I wanted to help all of us to draw conclusions on how we're going to work, not to have a debate on the law, because I agree, in that, that's Mrs. Seada Palavrić first sentence, that we talk very little about the law, so I, too, had to agree on a technique, whether it was an extension of the amendment phase, whether it was a new law offered by the Council of Ministers, we could meet urgently tomorrow, if someone were to offer us a law, which we would discuss, that would be 57 sessions just in that part of the agenda, because it's important. I said earlier, revolutionary for BiH, that if it were to be held on Sunday and Saturday and every day, I would only be seated to pass such a law, which is important to me and I think it is important for both the position and the opposition and I do not want to defend any HDZ minister on this matter, nor do I want to praise the opposition by introducing VAT in this government, because this is one need of BiH, to protect the tax system, but I say, I apologize to the chairman, it turns out this as a debate on social categories, we can only talk in that direction, in fact, as far as I was talking about, the price and then talk about zero reduced or full VAT prices.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14737	Thank you. We only have one more replica. It's Mrs. Sopta, and then we're going to the debate. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14738	I would also replicate Mrs Palavrić for one single reason, as a member of the Commission, that it should not be understood that we are an amendment to the law, the one that is essential, which in truth enters the principles of the law that we have easily accepted without argument. If I remember correctly, we had no argument at 17%. We have not been documented that this is what the gentleman explained to us that it is, on occasion, tax collection at the level of the existing ones. Mr Lagumdžija called the same thing, if the calculations of 17% were good, which gave me the assumption that he had data on them, that then the changes in these rates satisfy the same level of funds collected again, which I, as a member of the Commission, say that it was the same argument for both 17 and these three rates, and as such, I accepted it. This also immediately tells Mr Duraković that the representatives here are not the hostages of their camps, that is, we, unanimously on the Commission, adopted these amendments. Also, Mr Avdić, I would like to answer, forgive me, if I may answer, that we didn't want to act socially in this way, but we wanted to avoid social unrest, and the social agendas, which we all already know that no country in transition, went into transition without social programmes except BiH. And, that only... privatisation that didn't have a social program in it. So that's the three things that are very important, and I think Mr. Chairman, here's to taking advantage of the opportunity, point four of the Commission's solicitation, it seems to me that there's an atmosphere in this room that should be used and that maybe make one, whether it's going to be a debate. I propose that it be a concrete meeting of the Council of Ministers, a meeting of Parliamentarians and members of the Management Board, that we meet, because three are very strong options here, three very strong options, and three very, very important, I would say the most important system law, and that, however, I say, I think the atmosphere for conclusion 4 was created in the form of a conclusion point 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14739	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sopta. We're going to a debate. Mr. Novaković, get Nikola Špirić ready. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14740	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I think we're a little unprepared for entering this debate. It seems to me that we could have discussed this point of the agenda differently, because the more we discuss, the closer we get to the beginning. So, as the debates go on, it makes me feel more secure that we can't do this. So I would have a suggestion that, indeed, not to bring the debate to an end, of course, I respect the full right of all to discuss, but to try somehow... in some sort of suggestion, or some conclusion. I, from all these debates that I have heard so far, will allow myself the right to conclude that most people feel that serious decision requires more serious work. For this serious work, everyone has proposed here certain findings from the Council of Ministers, through various institutions, and to the board of directors, which, in my opinion, is actually a public debate and nothing else. Of course, the public debate can be defined in different ways now. We can say that the public debate, which will wrap up at a session here in Sarajevo or which will take place, I do not know in what form either. It is now a matter that we could agree on, in which form of a public debate, but in any case, even if we don't call it public rapprochement, it means one very serious set of arguments, one or the other. I think it's us, but that's what I think, without any argument, that we need two feet or three, but that's why I don't have the arguments. Look, for me, it's an argument that out of the 25 countries there are 23, so I think they're smarter than us. Well, I mean, I guess Germany would apply a unique rate both France and Italy and England, if it were good, but that's what I think. I don't have any arguments, I don't have anything written behind it, except for what I said. I don't have sha means a change of rate from 17 to 18. I don't have what the rate 8% is defined as defined in the amendment, which is ideal for different ways not to be interpreted. So I don't think it's hard to do an analysis. Those who say we can't do the analysis, I think we can do the analysis. Namely, there is statistics that are being conducted in this country. There's data that's gotta be pretty accurate. They need people in the machine, and we're gonna get what we're looking for. We'll get exactly what it means if we increase from 17 to 18. Which means rate 8%, the way it's defined there, so we'll see what the total funds are. I think that's why we have knowledge and data. So, to decide on the commission and to change the principle, I'm not going to say that it's unserious, it's serious, the Commission has worked very seriously on it, but I'm afraid it's dangerous and that we should work to realize this principle, so we should have more information, more arguments. What I think in the debates today, we need to limit ourselves, is just that basic principle. One or more feet. But here, I can see that we're not coming today, we can't, it's not real, it's not logical that we today determine whether one or more feet. And that is why I believe that the conclusion would have to go in that direction to find our commission, the board of directors, representatives of the IMF and other institutions, who have made this law in one place. Representatives of the Council of Ministers, so if you want and interested in chambers of commerce, institutions designated and to determine in one place what it is, indeed what is acceptable and realistic and possible. After that, we would certainly end this debate here for hours' work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14741	Thank you very much. Next is Mr. Nikola Špirić, second vice-president of the House. Stab Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14742	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I was already at the very beginning, when I pointed out the explanation that came from the Council of Ministers, knew that this debate would go in this direction for a reason that unfortunately, it is scarce that the knowledge of the matter we are deciding today is no wonder. Every MP doesn't have to know in that sense what VAT means, what it means from the point of view of reform, the pro-econ system in BiH. I'm not surprised that there are no members of the Council of Ministers today, because I think their knowledge of VAT is scarce, because what they know comes and defends. That's why I'm glad to see here members of the Council of Ministers who are working on this and who are willing to interpret what they know about VAT and what they think of VAT. But, you see, it's illogical that the finance minister, who is a board member today, is again suggesting that the single rate is the only optimal solution, and that its deputy warns us to run from a single rate, to look for a solution in the differentiated VAT rate. The fact that the normal state, in question the state of the deputy minister, was waiting for the minister when he returned from his journey. I don't think we need public service related to VAT, but what surprised me, of course, about interpreting the Council of Ministers' representative, Mr Kumalić, to say that, if I understand correctly, it should be kept from jeopardising BiH's fiscal sovereignty. I agree. For the first time, BiH has received one significant source income in VAT. So, and this is a complex BiH system, when it comes to the tax system, and finally it says that their projection of 17% serves to collect the same level of income that we now have. What we need is a reform of the tax system in which, and the basic objective and purpose of VAT or one of the objectives is to avoid legal or non-legal tax evasion. Legally through false bookkeeping, not legal cross-crossing goods across borders. If the proximation is at the same level of income, and here, those who called from the international community, they mentioned the names, that billions of marks remain outside the budget, so only two business banks in the last year opera about a billion and a half KM, and we reformed the tax system and picked up the same and we speak to the social and development components. If it's the same level of income, what can pensioners hope for, why police officers, what soldiers, why demobilized fighters, what disabled people? So, the tax system reform and everyone will get the same, and all today unsatisfactory in BiH, eh, if so, this reform, you've given me real arguments today, that I don't vote for any proposal. These are the most shocking rates. It's also occluded 17% without analysis, and it's receptive to both 0 and 8% without analysis. It's just that the differentiated rate eases social tensions. If the same level of income, therefore, is the same level of income, as they say at the rate of 17% and 8% and to God, to give me a little half-tronize of a few citizens, let's do this differentiated, then it is better differentiated because it protects the most endangered social layer in BiH. And we're talking about the principles of the law today. So whether it's a single rate or a double rate. And, for one and the other, it takes analysts to decide. I don't want these representatives from the international community writing to me as if we're all gussied here, which means one, which means the second rate and one, and the other doesn't mean anything to me without analysis. But if the system is complex budget, we have passed one law, which speaks of the return of funds to entity budgets and Brcko District, on the rate of recreation of funds returns. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers know, therefore, about the absolute amount, which level of funds is returning, because good people said that social policy is in entity budgets. Will he come back less or more or equal, or will he still be poor? Does anyone have that analysis? What happens next to the municipalities when this vertical model goes down? Well, come on, guys, this is serious. We are concerned today if there is a Council of Ministers, whether there is no Council of Ministers. Where the activities take place, the ones that are alimony based on one or the other's budget, or, if this same VAT, tax system reform, monitors the BiH redecoration system, then 60 tells us to agree, sort the dice, that we do not engage in public deception for the next 20 years. Because this will have an impact on the internal concept of BiH's arrangement, which we must all be convinced of. Sha should expect municipalities, if right now, here are the entities who don't know what will come back to them. Does any of the MPs know what the coefficient in the law we passed yesterday means? I'm in the resource-refunding rate, days and I don't know how to tie up, etc. reserves, what the reserves mean, etc. I'm into this, I'm sick of things, I have to say. So these are all related legal projects. I think there's a lot of misunderstanding here. Which part of the VAT, if already talked about two of its components, developmental and social, then they say everything is developmental, and we collect the same income. Well, then they say, it's a little social, what's developmental, and what's social? Can we really know that we would make a decision? You see, this, in my opinion, is the most important law that we have in this council, when it comes to citizens, not counting, of course, these laws about the police, about the military, about the security and, therefore, I think you remember less important, but not the irrelevant law we gave six months of debate, the law on sport and here to create a positive climate about VAT, so, about system law, we should give time to different social groups, to show their needs, to create a positive climate and to convince the Council of arguments that we, or Parliamentarians, are the best possible solution. That we are aware of the demands of each social group and that it is not irrelevant 0.1% or 55% or 1% when it comes to VAT. The financial resources of taxpayers are behind this, and I think, therefore, that it is good to give the Commission time for a new report, but to give enough time for 30 days, I don't think we're going to waste time, if we prepare ourselves in quality, to have different social groups say what they think and finally come up with a single proposal and that those who do the final version are able to defend it. No one here will mind, not against a single and differentiated rate, if there is an analyst, which we can tell the citizens, we voted because it's best for you. And that's why I think that, here, for me, 30 days to be given for a new report, in calling on different social groups, to give their vision, and I think that here, the least convincing story is that someone in the international community convinces us to pass one or another law. They have, of course, the right to suggest, to provide good services, but no one is stopping us from getting ready for this. I ask the Council of Ministers and reformers to propagate it, not to defend it with the same level of funding, and that BiH is the first at the level of corruption and to hide two billion marks outside the BiH budget of different levels. Two billion. If that will not be covered, I think that the tax system reform is only welcome to international experts, who will take some million, some two, some three, and who will try to explain that even a single rate in such an undeveloped country, a war destroyed, can be defended by a high-income model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14743	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word has Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14744	Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs, esteemed ministers from the Council of Ministers, However far this debate goes, I am increasingly confused. I thought today's debate, which took two and a half hours, which is good in Parliament, which is what we would do but argue, that we would at least move a little bit away from seeing where we're going. The more this debate goes on, I repeat, I'm more confused, with all the information I've received here in the media, and also in those papers that have been written and come from here. So, from what I've been told, from everything written, I didn't first come to the belief, which means, if I raise my hand, which means if I'm against it. I'm just moving on to Mr. Špirić, who was just talking about it. I'd like to know, I'm so used to working in my life, which if we do this, it's true. If we do the opposite, it'll be worse or better or just the best. Then I'm prepared to defend and adopt, but then be responsible. But if I can't defend it, then I'm hardly gonna be able to adopt it, so the praises we'd like to have, I just don't know who's gonna take it. For these reasons, when I read the daily newspaper today, so says the finance minister, that only a single rate leads us to good. We've been taking a different rate all along. I hear it here. In the conclusion of the commission, the commission says that it should be and that's where we deviated from the principle, where, I think, today, we should only talk about it and talk about it. So I suggest, I'd like to contribute, maybe it's a little late, maybe I could say, take advantage of it, take advantage of it, and say what I mean now, I think you'll agree, and that's the commission in point four left the possibility of an extension of the amendment phase, and take advantage of that time, so the great ones that confuse us, from those who are in the Council of Ministers, in the Department of Direct Taxation, I don't know either, so to those gliboders, I've heard today that the fine money is being spent. I thank you, sir, Reverend Avdić, for giving me the information today. I want to do a lot of surgery with him in future performances, let's see, the possibility in order to be serious. Those who need to hear us, they didn't hear anything today. And this isn't going to get to them. We can go our own way today. We have the rails, the legislation is on our side, the Constitution and everything else. However, we, I am not prepared to accept such a responsibility. I said why. I don't have the input. So I would like you to accept one kind of conclusion, that what the commission has offered, has a solid basis, but it is not to adopt, so in Article 4, it leaves us the opportunity to focus on its decision to, to leave and extend one amendment phase, and in the meantime to task the leadership of this Parliament, to initiate meetings and talks with relevant officials, which would offer one solution, tangible, which is said to be, so we now have input information, indicators how much we get, how many products, how many exports, etc. I know it's not gonna be right and it's not gonna be good, but let's not make a mistake at 8:00, let's make a mistake at 2:00. Well, here, my discussion was an offer of one conclusion, to get out of this. And, secondly, it's very important. The adoption of this law alone in such a separate and partial way, the truth and the next point are bound by an important law, this is the customs law, I would like to see this law passed today, which is the subject of this debate, with a package of laws that we have already had to regulate. On December 29, we adopted the Law on a system of impertinent taxation, and then, in all articles, there is a lot of time to be respected. Because we've passed such a law. This is the ninth month, and it says in six months, you and those laws have to be passed. I can't see them in sight. We don't talk about them at all, and they directly influence this law. And I think that today's debate has nothing but a quality in the fact that we've pissed each other off. And we should reverse that and I suggest you adopt this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14745	I thank the gentleman. I will remind you, Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Gligorić, I have you registered Mr. Zorić, if you have not exhausted with that, Mr. Zorić is not, so Mr. Živković, Mr. Huskić, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and Mrs. Perkanović. So we have Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Gligorić, Živković, Huskić and Mrs. Perkanović. Five more reported. And, please, if there are any more interested, let's record it. Only four to bring the debate to an end. I think that opinions and suggestions have been crystallized, which the House could adopt today, but we'll talk about them after the debate is exhausted and I'm asking the MPs, indeed, to respect the dignity of this house and to talk about the law, because that's the point of the agenda. It's up to us to adopt this law, to tell about it, whether we're ready or not, and not to disrespect the possibility of saying what we think. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14746	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, by respecting the Rules of Procedure and your recommendations, I will speak exclusively of the law. I think anyone who feels unprepared for this kind of agenda today is probably that way because this is an area that hasn't got much of an interest in him and doesn't need all of this to be of interest. There are a lot of laws that go through this Parliament and then people focus on certain things. There are people who have been prepared and who have long been prepared for this. Namely, the "Work and Justice" document, which the Council of Ministers currently took over from the previous Council of Ministers, defined that this law should be operational, is remembered by the people who participated in these negotiations with the IMF, there were technical possibilities for it to be operational in 1.7.2004, so now to enter the third month of its application. Then it was said that it would be 1.1.2005, because, however, it should be prepared in time, then we heard the High Representative, who said it would be 1.1.2006 and, here, we now have a proposal, which, I think, is real and good to keep it, respecting Mr. Potočnik's remarks, that we should stick to it, to be ready for 1.7.2006, because if we give up the deadline now, then who knows where. So we have to, I think, that the deadline, which is troubled, is very important to stay and no amendment has been a problem. The proposal of the Council of Ministers, which was before us and which is still in front of us, along with the commission's report, is, at the same time, a proposal that we have, to be open, to know what we're talking about directly is for ourselves, for the people who are sitting here, too, and I'm glad that here are the people of the Council of Ministers, who, indeed, understand this more than those who are missing us today, and we should officially introduce ourselves and stand behind this. Namely, the proposal, offered by the Council of Ministers, proposed by international institutions. The Council of Ministers had a flow water heater. This is what you can see from this, and I'm going to say very clearly and precisely how you see it, even from what we got on date 30.7. o.g. The proposal that was ahead of us is, someone said associative, antisocial, he's against the poor and he's for the rich. That was the proposal before us. And, I think it is very important that the Commission and what was encouraging for all of us in the Commission and for me, especially, because, in some way, if there hadn't been these amendments 11, 12 and 13 today, we would probably have gone with the international community, and then someone from the Council of Ministers of the opposition resented 63 for not doing our homework in time, which we didn't act in amendment. The SDP acted through Amendment 11 which you have 12 and 13 and the whole story about it. And I thank the members of the committee, for having had a debate that was, indeed, respectful among us, thanking Mr. Deputy Minister, who was at that session of the Commission, who, indeed, was very correct and heartily defending the Council of Ministers' proposal, and I think it's correct that it was so and should be said here. Mr. Belkić said one very important thing on behalf of the commission, and that's what he was saying then, and here he is today after this speaker said what I want to underline. The proposal we are pleading today, therefore, Mr Džaferović was very precise. We no longer declare the Council of Ministers' law. He doesn't exist for us anymore. The Council of Ministers may, eventually, withdraw all of this together if they want to, but we now have an integral text of the law at this stage, which what the Council of Ministers has proposed has changed with these amendments, which are essential in these 11, 12 and 13. We today, when we adopt the Rules of Procedure, I guess Article 95(1), when in our first reading we adopt the necessary principles and principles that we act on, then we adopt a principle that can then be subject to here in the second phase of some amendments, in terms of calculation and clarification of why we work. Is it 8, 7 or 9. is it 10 or 9. Is it 17 or 18? But, please, we, when we adopt today, and I think that today we are obliged to make a statement about the commission's proposal from the point of view of principle. So Beriz said very precisely that the changed principle. If Parliament adopts the Commission's report today, we have international financial institutions against us, which are heartily against what we have proposed here today unanimously and the Council of Ministers here has unanimously cared about this. That is the way it is seen in the letter sent by the Governing Board, which I will also say something about. For those who have troubled our calculations of 8, 18 and 0, our calculations, which we have made, as the proposings of these amendments, which the Commission has accepted, in view of the fact that 17% of the correct figure. We, to be right now, I'm going to say here, I haven't spoken before. Our calculations said it could be from 15% to 16%. But we said, okay, 17%. We accept it's 17%, and on that calculation, we've done what we do with the fuck, the 8-, and the 0-, and how it settles with that 1-one, which is increasing from 17 to 18. Since we have Mrs. Palavrić's amendment here, which here says that we have assessed it, I would like to say that, the calculations we made, and I have said it in a certain way in the commission, was attended by a working group, which we could gather, in which there was one former head of state, two former prime ministers, three former ministers and four current university professors and five current businessmen, and we are ready to talk to these people. We made this with a computer, we're not a broom. So, please, the insult of the people who did this is the claim that this is flat-rate, and as others do, says the letter of the board of directors, if you have it in front of you. Be kind and look at him, which you Mr. Raguž and Mr. Milojević have received. When we sign Mr. Dikens, Čarls Dikens, he says here. A technical report by the IMF on the introduction of poetry to an additional value with more detailed arguments, which support the board's conclusions, which says it must be one step, will be delivered to you first chance. Look, the 7th of September they're writing to us that the first 64 times they're going to tell us when we're going to calculate... and we're not serious, and they're serious. They'll deliver it to us first time. Well, I think it's scary, what my friend Nijo would say. The letter clearly states, and therefore we are obliged today to claim the principles of one step, according to the international institutions or differentiated as a principle. Because it stands very clearly here, signed by respected ministers and economic advisers. Here we have the Minister and Deputy Minister of the Council of Ministers, two Entitive Ministers, ministerial assistants and so on, who clearly tell us that this must be a unique rate and that the combination of more rates is not taken. That's what we have to say today. Oh, don't wait for your first chance. Because they'll come to tell us something, only if we come forward today, that we want a different rate. If we come forward today to go through, you know what's going to happen in this House that we're common rags, that we're fools, and they only remember us when we tell them, hello, people, so don't be kids. Well, we're not, we're circumstantial people. If we do this today, this parliament becomes a joke, a circus and everything else. I don't think any of us want to, and that's why I'm sure we'll plead. What I am particularly concerned about and the amendment of Mrs Palavrić, related to the statement of the Council of Ministers Chairman, I see here a game very perfidious, let's all, we heard here, it is the entity governments that have no social programmes, with Olympic heights we blame the entity governments and not the opposition, but the government blames its governments. Then we'll have something in 30 days, just to pass the election, no, we should tell the people fine now if we're ready to stand behind something consensus. If this parliament is behind the introduction of a differentiated rate as suggested by the commission, then let us see who will write the letters from the international community to Zorić in the evening. That's what the public's about, 'cause I'm not gonna get a chance to say anything. That meeting at night, it's not an accident that he put together. That meeting was called in the evening, Mr Zorić was called a day before the Commission's meeting, when it was practically the last time they expected that, when they saw the amendments we had proposed, they organised the meeting on the evening. The meeting was organised in the morning in front of the committee, the heads of parliament's clubs were invited and was sent to explain to them that there must be one and that there is no movement. That's how it was done, and then someone slipped on the board, or everyone, to tell people, so it can't just be like that. That meeting, and to be clear, too, Mr. Raguž, when the commission meeting was over, once again, on us, I here, know people, beings, they were called, I was being proposed new pressures. I've been explained to withdraw, even benevolently told that you save these people, let them make a big tax rate, so it'll be a big blow to the people, so it'll be good for you as an opposition. I even had such suggestions from the concierge. We're not even interested in hitting people, but in doing something that's going to be a little bit better for all of us. So, I want to say here, too, because we have three principles, which from the point of view of the international community are suggesting here. The first principle that this is complicated, to clarify why we want a differentiated rate. The first principle that tells us this is complicated, it's such an offensive argument, that every argument is completely independent. We're told that, be careful, they're still telling us that it's complicated if something's zero. Who's a nation won't know how to figure out how to multiply by zero. It's particularly complicated. Then we are told here that the rich are stimulated in this way, because at that meeting we were once told to stimulate the rich, because we have rich people eating more, and that's what we've been told from the official places. It doesn't occur to people that the poor are one less because they don't have the money. The code they wouldn't like even such offensive arguments. And we also, I'm sorry Mr. Minister, the Prime Minister didn't say that. We were threatened here by Directive number 6. Directive No 6 of 1977, right, Beris? By European Union Directive, we must comply with Directive No 6. And if that directive applies to the countries of the 65 European Union, and we want to be and we have to act on it, we are even being faked what it says in that directive. We are even set on certain things to be a minimum of 5% without some not to go below 5%, which is not true in Directive No 6, which does not bind us again, because we are not in the European Union, unfortunately. So, I want special, not getting into arguments, I'm ready for the first time the gentleman comes to talk about this argument. We've done calculations, that this will cover the existing 10, 20 and 0 taxes, and we've done that, thinking, making calculations like it's going to get the same degree, so to speak of taxes, in the sense that there will be no tax ejaculation, which now exists because of a complicated system. If we take into account that the introduction of VAT will reduce fiscal fraud, then we can get the calculation, that we actually have too much rate and this 18%, even it's too big, because it's said that a billion a year, let's say that now, the VAT is going to save billions. If a billion will be saved, then this 17% is too big. Also, if we accept that the development strategy Professor Avdić was talking about, that it is something behind which the Council of Ministers stands, then we need to reduce tax intervention, because we planned to have a smaller part of the social product for public consumption in 2005. Which means we need to cut back and cut the administration. So, every calculation, I'm afraid, gentlemen, when it comes to the first time, it's going to be explained that this rate of 18 should be 15% because of all of this and we're not going to specify Directive No 6, because Directive 6 doesn't allow a lower rate of 15. In other words, there's a reason for us to accept this. And, finally, Mr. Chairman, since I said I would, look at the law that we have before us, which the Council of Ministers delivered to us. On the front page, you have an explanation of Chapter VIII of the tax rate. It states, Article 23 and Article 24 of the tax rate has been established as standard, without a percentage of the rate and a special rate, also without a percentage for a tax-listed case, such as food, animal, water supply, medicines, public transport, etc. What does that mean? That means the Council of Ministers had a two-foot law ahead of them, and then someone came to the Council of Ministers and told them to throw one out. They threw out, and forgot to change the explanation. They even sent us a law with an explanation that should be different rates. Yeah, it happens what Beriz says. That's why, Mr. Chairman, since I see you're nervous, because I'm only talking about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14747	Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm very calm, you have no need. You're ruining a very high-quality discussion of false things.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14748	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14749	It's so high-quality, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14750	Mr. Chairman, I'll buy you a treat. I'll cut it short. So I suggest a conclusion. 66 So, first of all, let's make a statement about the commission's report, the obligation to plead. By accepting the commission's report, we have told the international community not to play with us and the Council of Ministers. That's why I suggest the conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I suggest a conclusion. The VAT shall be accepted with a standard lower and zero rate in accordance with the principles adopted on the Commission. So to clarify what we accept, that it's going to be, whether it's 8, 7 or 10, it's going to be 17 or 18, so we can figure it out first. But, then, the first conclusion is to accept this concept. The second conclusion, the Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing a law on the tax and non-taxable part of the personal income of citizens, according to the reputation of the European Union, with revenues whose purpose would be exclusively social programmes, whose application would take effect with the VAT. What does that mean? Only give an example of neighbouring Croatia. You never pay an extra tax there from an opportunity to pay up to 500 marks. All over 500 marks suitable.. 8, 9, 1000, 3,000 you pay a corresponding tax, which basically pays that bread subsidy, which you buy 0%, and the poor don't pay for it. So we're gonna shut the strangers' mouths with an argument rich in food, who's gonna pay for it. They're going to pay for it, and I'd like to ask that this conclusion, I'm willing to elaborate, to make a statement about it, and I believe that the other discussions that went into it are in favour of that and that the third conclusion is. That the new amendment, if we allow Mr. Chairman, may be exclusively within the framework of the principles adopted here in seven days. In other words, we can't, if we give a new deadline in seven days for amendments, that no amendments can change the principle of Čarls Dik... in which children are poor. And I'm against the whole debate being delayed for after the election, maybe this whole thing will make us hug before the election and tell the peoples that we're behind you, not behind the international community. As far as I'm concerned, accept these amendments, we don't need an election. If you're going to change, we can change that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14751	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. We have two replicas and Mr. Novaković and Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14752	I thank Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Lagumdžija on the extraordinary courage to suggest a reduced rate. This exceeds all the bold decisions and suggestions I have heard so far in this House. So congratulations on the bold decision to propose reduced rates. Secondly, I'm saying that I don't believe that there's an analysis behind the 18 and 8% rate. I don't believe it, because I don't have it. And I'd ask Mr. Lagumdžija to deliver it to me, then we'd talk exactly the same way, and then I'd have the arguments he has, so we could say whether it's true or not. This way for me and 18 and 8 is the same thing as 20 and 10 and 15 and 5 etc. So that's very important, that I would then have what he's talking about, which is that I have an argument as to why I'm for each other. 67 Whether or not there's this analysis, so until I see it, I don't know, but Mr. Lagumdžija himself denied himself that there's something that he said was possible to do at a lower rate. That means it's hard to run an analysis without what he was talking about in part two. There's no analysis of Mr. Lagumdžija, if we don't know how much money we need. So, the circumstantial analysis, the rate is gone without what we need, or we're going to take just as much as we're taking right now. So it's like a postulate for analysis. So, to analyze it, it takes several elements, which, assumed elements, I don't know if you had or didn't have. I'd like to see who those are. Is that and how much more of the money you pick, is that and how much less of the goods on black and what does that mean, or what percent? Therefore, I think that, if we wanted to, the condition that Mr. Lagumdžija suggested, we couldn't adopt him today without this analysis, at least I couldn't have done without this analysis. And, I'm staying with the proposal, it's business-friendly to interrupt the debate, so the debate ends at this point in the agenda, with the conclusions that I've been talking about. There were more people here talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14753	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14754	Well, I'm not going to go into Mr. Lagumdžija's behavioral motives whether they're just pre-election or if they really care about the citizens, but I want to correct the wrong quote when it comes to a meeting organised by Ambassador Hayes. However, I don't think Mr Lagumdžija is that important to the international community, because the invitation to the meeting was sent by Mr Hejs on August 30th and we received him in the Parliamentary Assembly on August 30th, and we were 31st as representatives, and Mr Lagumdžija made his own amendments. Another false allegation, when it comes to amendments 11, 12 and 13, the amendments accepted by the Commission, which in other words means that the reduced rates would not have been if it hadn't been for Mr Lagumdžija's amendments, was, in fact, Mr. Novaković's amendments. However, as the substance was adopted through Mr. Lagumdžija's amendments, Novakovics were not even discussed. And, third Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you very much. Thank you for your discussion of the Free Bosnia, when it comes to my smallness, convey it to this compliment. You write your amendments on a computer. However, even if mine are written in a broom, how nice and perfiduously you underline it, however, your amendments do not have a financial analysis. I have them, but since you're so smart, I won't give them to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14755	Thank you very much. Next reported is Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14756	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd point my discussion in the direction that it is, so the agenda point and, given that we're going in one other direction, to bring this to an end, and that a lot of things my colleagues and colleagues said, I'd look back on just a few things. 68 First of all, many have referred to the fact that the Council of Ministers does not have and alone speak about it in that intervention, I would like to confirm once again, that when Parliament is sitting, that there are no more important things and more important things in BiH than Parliament's meeting, and that with due attention we should generally Potočnik for the people of the executive government, but when they do not respect any such important and important law, I do not want to be exhausted on this issue. At the same time, we are in a really confusing situation today. We have a whole new law on the proposal proposed by the Council of Ministers, and therefore, do not let this Parliament have the practice that it is like in BiH, unfortunately, how witchcraft, returnees and others do, that we use their methods and speculate in this Parliament. I join those who have said that we should leave for a time of 15 days, with the structure of sitting people also talked about, and in this direction we have formulated a conclusion by a group of MPs, which, in fact, is oral in his speech already said by Professor Avdić. I think it would be one realistic approach and in the part where Dr Lagumdžija spoke, it would not be, perhaps, or should still consider not falling into that trap, that we should plead, but that report should be made clear, which is why we have come to a quality new situation, the dignity of the Parlment, is indeed on one great level, rather than fall into that trap on which the statement is proposed, as Mrs Palavrić suggests, although these amendments, in the vanity that is given, correct. But, look, it has to be explained a little bit, if we're already playing as perfiduously as someone wants to say, about deceptions and big frauds, then we have executive power, we have a prime minister who proposes a unique rate and Professor Lagumdžija talked about it, and my colleague Blagojević that this is actually rich in this law to protect himself and make a distance from the poor. It is quite clear that 5% of the people in relation to 95% do, and we have a prime minister who suggests it. And then we, the second structure of the SDA Club, they suggest a differentiated rate, they propose this social programme, they enter the story of social democracy and socialist, they enter into someone else's field, and they're good to the people. Well, you can't play double like that. You change your prime minister because he did not protect the people's interests. And then I'll tell Mrs. Palavrić you played a fair game in front of parlament and the people, and not the agreed secret policy, I'll do half, and you change, depending on the climate that's being created in public. Eh, that can't. The differentiated rate itself and all those who said it was a unique salvation, that we would have a macro-economic, a single market, that is, stories, like the law when they also spoke about privatisation. They said, no matter how soon we sell, we'll get the money, we won't fire the workers, and we'll make a social program out of that money. An ordinary robbery happened, today they're saying the same thing again that this is in the interest of the people, when they tax their bread, food for children and medicines. Such a big deception, so is it possible that in this country, someone can suggest and speak. And it's hypocrisy in front of the people, which, simply passes, and we know for whom and why. Let me remind you, this differentiated rate, which we now have, which we had in the previous Yugoslavia, in the Council of Europe the MEP from Hungary said, Yugoslavia was a consumer paradise. We were over Japan for a while. Now someone wants to say that only salvation is at a unique rate. Because Germany has built it in, don't forget 69 in your constitution that it's a social state, there's no story with them between the opposition and the position. So I think it would be correct, that these conclusions that we have, which are actually going in the same direction, which is that we support and leave this time and get, basically one analysis of all of these dilemmas, which we now objectively have. And, when I say that, I have to tell Mr. Novaković to ask Lagumdžija to get him an analysis of how he got there. Well, I would really give Mr. Novaković's hand if he asked for it in principle and for the Council of Ministers. No matter what goes on here where no one has ever made an effort to put together two and two, so Mr. Novaković and all of you who have taken power and are once devoid of it and respected it. We in this situation today as we have, we have Parliament, we have our commission, she has expressed responsibility and courage and I respect it and we have the Direct Taxation Aencija, which is also on our side involved in this problem and we have in the middle of the Council of Ministers, which either doesn't understand it or they're not, or they're hired politicians who listen to someone who tells him on the side and he's going to do it for his armchairs no matter what it is not good for this country. Therefore, I would like to join these conclusions, to support the work of our commission on finance and budget, to propose that we also solve this proposal within 15 days and that, with the Council of Ministers present and the bill to be carried out, we solve this issue and end this sentence. Since it is said that this will prevent the grey economy, crime, which has nothing to do with life and it is true, I fear that these in power will say, as long as we in Parliament are in committees, we are arguing and talking about it, you don't have to pay more than you paid for, until some comes, because from the transition from one system to another system to another system, it's always the simple money that was in the legal institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14757	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Correction of the wrong quote by Mrs Milićević. Let Mr. Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14758	Dear gentlemen, we have a bill, which we have concluded is vital, we have more Robin Hud, who will be here to kidnap the rich and give to the poor, to exploit the situation before the elections, the strange findings, we have our prime minister, who should have worked in the interest of someone's people, as it is not for the people, someone will represent the people, and I don't think there's any point in interpreting the good intentions with which we all went, we tried to fix the law, which gives us the Constitution for the right as MPs. I'm saying this as a member of the Commission. And I ask you to pay attention to the important thing, to approach it, to vote on the principles of the law. By voting on the principles of the law, we have changed one important principle, we have introduced more rates. You will support the commission's report, and I ask you without new conclusions that we respect the Commission's fourth conclusion, that we get seven days, means that you have until the second reading time for the amendment phase, and in that time we are in a situation where Mr Lagumdžija defends the rate that we have accepted, that Mrs Seada Palavrić defends her rate, perhaps that Mr Gligorić himself himself personally, since I am interested in delivering a financial account when the former Yugoslavia was out of Japan, because there is much to be said, and that should also be made available to some financial papers, as our 70 people say, or I want to say in seven days we have a situation that we are going on new principles with amendments. And, believe me, in the honesty of the commission's work, when we took and saw what it could, we couldn't, we asked for these sixth recommendations, to see what allows us, so we took into account that the state is in transition, so we really said, come on, we need this people, I think what's best possible. We didn't share in position and opposition. We've been looking for the best solutions in the theme, and we haven't gone to what you give the people bread and games, but rather, let's give one normal situation, that we have a fiscal system, as it is adapted to this country, and it's also sustainable and in some way it can all work at optimal, and that up to the optimal rate we have time to get there, it's ahead of us, let's face it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14759	Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević. Mr. Živković has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14760	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the MPs who has not received the report from the commission, and by contrast, I have received four same reports from 12 pages. A 42nd session record, so after that, the fax machine died. On the other hand, today's debate is in this home with first reading, as regards the necessity and denigration of this law and the Commission's report. The necessity as we have seen no one here slows down and, for the very entry into the European Union and for life in BiH, it is necessary to pass a VAT law. On the other hand, the principles of the commission have been changed and we here need to give or withdraw the support of the Commission, which unanimously, I repeat, has unanimously changed the principles of this law. The law itself consists of that so-called. a professional and political part, an expert part where a key dilemma is whether a multi-stage or a unique rate. It was resolved by the commission, and I don't see the dilemma brought here by the Deputy Minister to get rid of social policy or social programs. I'd say social policy is run by both taxes and social programs. Taxes, that the most endangered part of our population, which is the majority of BiH residents in general, would survive in order to buy daily bread, milk and the rest. It's tax-deposited, multiple taxes. And social policy solves her so-called. a qualitative part of life that will mean whether other than that consumer basket and dry survival will have anything else. These are social programs for which we from the SNSD at the National Assembly in 2000 advocated to bring a day, today no social programme has been adopted. Also, when we want to discuss percentages, it's only now that we realize how much we lack the law and the population list itself. In that list of people other than pure lists of people, we also have that economic and material part, as many people are employed, as many people receive wages, as much as they have in households, and how their social situation is. It's only now that it's necessary for us to pass the law and make a census in order to discuss it seriously here at all. And the political part of this law regarding this debate, why is this debate here? This debate is here, gentlemen, because we don't have the Council of Ministers. We do not have a Council of Ministers that 71 should be an exposition of the BiH Parliament and that should defend its views, but hides in the mission a hole when the International Community is strict and puts this Parliament ahead of itself so that we are the ones who are going to be threatened with their resignations tomorrow, by taking off their duties, by turning their hands, etc. This is not the first time this Parliament has been put in place and that the Council of Ministers is covering behind it by fearing for its positions and chairs. And why not say that the international community is also looking for a single rate to secure unique revenues, so that BiH can service its debts and that this power could survive. That's true. BiH citizens don't need to know that. And I think it should also be said once that the international community responds that it is stable here and that as much BiH earns, as much debt as possible so that it can invest as much as possible. When we discuss how to get out of this crisis, there have been a lot of insurmountable proposals. The Council of Ministers cannot withdraw the bill because it has entered the procedure. We're discussing him today. There can't be an end to the debate about this, so sometimes the fields continue, because that doesn't allow the Rules of Procedure. We can only do two things. To declare this proposal to the Commission by voting and decide whether to return it afterwards to the Commission or to bring down the law. Either we do it or we don't. If we're gonna do this I respect the Rules of Procedure, if we don't, then I don't know what else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14761	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mr. Huskić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14762	Thank you. I guess I'm the last one today.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14763	Mrs. Leho yet
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14764	I'm glad I'm not the one to conclude the debate, because it turns out I'm proposing a final solution and that's not my intention. I'd try to get things back to some standard situation because to me, this is a completely standard situation. It's standard not to be, but now there's a little more from the Council of Ministers and that's standard. The standard is that this law went according to procedure, that the commission was considering it, that it was as far as I could see, that the amendments were only for one member, that all the discussions so far were saying that what the commission had proposed should be accepted. There were no different opinions, at least I failed to notice, that the commission was composed of representatives of all clubs, that the commission unanimously adopted these conclusions. Therefore, this is very simple for me and I would be inclined to suggest that the principles with the Commission's proposal today be accepted and to approach the vote in the second round, because I don't see that anything will improve in the next 7 or 17 or 70 days. I'm really not convinced we can fix anything. I don't think the essence of this law is at this rate, even though they're being discussed all the time. The point is the law, the way it's taxed. In my opinion, the key members are 17 and 18, not Article 23. This Article 23 may be changed, as such, by importing rates (?) And I think the commission did it correctly. 72 As for the public debate, we wanted to admit it or not, it was well carried out because I am and I think and the rest of you got a lot of faxes from various associations, so that part is over too. And in my opinion, the commission has given a good message to both the local public and the international players and us and I think we should stand behind the commission and finally, ultimately, preserve our dignity by adopting the law. So to be brief in one sentence, I suggest we vote on both the first and second readings for this law. I agree it may be a little radical, but I'm really convinced we're mature for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14765	...reported, Mrs Fatima Leho and Mr Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14766	The chairman, colleagues and guests, I would like to urge that we today adopt a report by the Finance and Budget Commission as adopted unanimously by the Commission. Of course, with this point 4 which implies that another period of whether it is 7 days or different, it intervenes with the aim of improving the text. What am I saying that for? Because the commission was unanimous and there was no position or opposition. Because we had on the commission an explanation of Lagumdžija's MPs that the bill was made and that it was adequate for a single rate of 17. In this next period, of course, we could get all these papers so we can see that that's true, and from the others who suggested otherwise. Which is why I propose, or why I have committed myself to the commission as deputy chairing committee, in this way, to enter a differentiated rate in our law, is the stance of the resident representative of the International Monetary Fund in BiH, which he gave on 31 August this year. When asked whether one rate or more, the representative answers, Denmark and Slovakia have one rate, but it is true that most countries have a reduced rate, but it is a decision of a political nature and we cannot interfere in such a process. I realized that this is a decision of a political nature, a very difficult decision of a political nature. The IMF won't get involved in this. This is what the responsible person said, and in my opinion, we must make such a decision. For what? Next, for what I say next. The purpose of the VAT is not to stimulate the economy but to collect revenues for the government in the most neutral way. We honestly believe that the tax system should not be used to promote social programmes. Be careful, promote, but we are not in a position to promote the social programme by defining our fiscal system. Currently in BiH, the fiscal system is the only tool in the social programme, because it's the only way we can settle a third of our population with low prices of basic life intentions, because there are 400,000 pensioners and another one to feed, and there are 800,000 and 400,000 of them, over 400,000 of them on the bureau, that means a third of the population. If you take the UNDP, they say 20% in poverty, 50% on the edge of poverty. Then it cannot be said that the fiscal system does not need to address the social situation in one country. The social situation is generating into us now a drastic fiscal system that we're about to adopt. And that's why I'm here for our proposal, which we wrote here, and if it comes back to the commission again, I'm going to vote on it, and in any case, I'm going to live on a day when BiH will have one rate, not a single one, but only one single one, but those are the days ahead. We need to work so that they get there as fast as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14767	I thank Mrs. Leho. Mr. Filip Andrić. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14768	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected fellow MPs, behold, in the end from all this debate, so it is clear that there is an absolute consensus, that we are all for introducing a VAT system, which is certainly good and that I welcome, even expect a comprehensive result of that. Because only the introduction of the VAT system, according to Mr Špirić, is expected to bring a new billion into the state's budget, which is now hidden in some gray pockets and I know. It is also doubtless that we have defined ourselves for a rate differentiated, i.e. different rates, and that the proposings who propose one step did not convince us anything that this is inconclusive, that the existing services we have in BiH today are not able to do. They just figure it out, but they didn't document it that way. And if we go from the fact that the tax system so far is where and where more complicated than this, and yet they do it anyway, I have no doubt that it will be with a little training and preparation and reorganization ready to do this job too. When they say that this is how we try to solve social problems, better say troubles in the country, it's not true. I agree that social problems should be addressed through social programmes, but the introduction of a uniform VAT rate, we are making it worse and we want to avoid it at different rates, and therefore I propose, and the main reason for my report is that we accept the principles of this law and accept, in particular, the conclusion of the 4th Commission, means that we extend the possibility of investing amendments, because the fact is that we do not have an argumentable amendment proposal, which are the most favourable for us, which, on the basis of our decision, is about which there is a consensus. So, to accept both the principles of the law and accept the conclusion of the 4th Commission, we extend the possibility of investing in amendments, and, on the other hand, to commit the Council of Ministers as our executive body, to prepare an argument, once again when we discuss the amendment, to know what's best for us whether 20.10 is 18.8 or is it the smartest 17 to start discussing it on the basis of concrete arguments. That's possible. There are data in the late administration of the RS, the Tax Administration of the Federation, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Administration of the Federation, which are now connected to the Directorate for Immigrant Taxation, there are data in the CAFA and in truth if one serious approach to this problem is taken, then that is the way and that is the way to do it again, not to lead the empty debates here, but to all together decide what rates meet BiH's needs. And, here, that's one of the proposals, the conclusions. I hope you will fully understand and support me and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14769	I thank Mr. Andrić. We're running out of applications. I thank everyone who participated in this debate and I think that the debate justified the need, the need for MPs and this House to express their opinion on this law. And here, once again, I ask you not to deny ourselves that possibility and do not diminish Parliament's dignity by transferring responsibility to another. We're doing that part of the job that's up to us. I personally as chairman in consultations with other members of the College are absolutely behind the commission's work and I don't think any of the MPs here today have questioned the work of the commission. A great deal of effort, especially the fact that repairs to this law have come with consensus. And I think it's one thing this House has to affirm in its conclusions and it needs to know the BH public but all those who have been involved in law-making so far must know. So it's not any more partial political interest of any party, but one consensus that has been reached in the commission and there are members of all political parties. And on that trail, I want to suggest conclusions. I think that's the strongest thing here today was, uh, that allows 74 conclusions and I'd ask you to listen very carefully, and then possibly intervene. And the bottom line is that we have a lead on the commission's report, and then those who go beyond that report give up other conclusions. I think that would be correct, respecting this argument. So, absolutely supporting the Commission's report today to adopt the principles of this law contained in the Commission's report, to leave a 15-day business deadline. So it's a business deadline for any additional amendments, which will be on the trail of these principles which, by analysis and quality, will convince us of the decision-making that these amounts to within the directed rates. And within those 15 days, everyone who thinks they're taking care of this country and its people is telling their opinion, not hiding. We're not hiding, here. That's my proposal as chairman. I mean, what about the amendments the commission adopted? They are, we accept the principles. So the differentiated rate, the amendments can be intervened within that principle. I think it's correct and it needs analysis and background (?). That's what you've all been looking for. No one challenged it, that approach. The analyst commission is still running the business. The Commission continues to draw up a new report within these principles and on the basis of these amendments, as far as I'm concerned, if it is behind it. But we've got business here for 15 days. Please don't give me 15 days because it's some real deadline. Don't bid on seven days. Please respect, we've been trying here as well as the College and as this, to respect everyone and let us now focus on this proposal conclusion. Mr. Avdić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14771	You cannot go far from those conclusions proposed by the chairman. So it's not really questionable that the principles of the law are adopted as a fundamental principle of differentiated VAT rates. That's quite clear. However, before the commission's final statement after 15 days of that deadline, before the Commission's final statement, we proposed a group of MPs, a meeting that is simply a Parliament's duty. I'm sorry, you didn't say that. So until then, it means, before the final statement of the Finance and Budget Commission, to organise a meeting with the presidents of the Council of Ministers, simple administrations, boards of directors, Directorates for indirect taxation and interested associations that sent us letters, etc. It will be a meeting where Parliament's strength will be shown that we have come to a meeting with clear views.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14772	I meant it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14773	Okay, okay, then if you mean it, then fine. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14774	It's the responsibility of the commission. The Commission, within the preparation of the new report, should schedule and hold a discussion with all relevant structures. I mean, that's a minimum. Can we accept our conclusions this way? Mr. Križanović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14775	I'm sorry, this may be too high, but for accuracy. Of course, this proposal for a conclusion is good, but if we are going to adopt the Commission's report, there's a report on the commission that says that amendments that regulate and I say are fixed on VAT rates. So, in doing so, with that difference, we are today accepting Mr Lagumdžija's conclusion that the first conclusion went to accept today's reduced rates that could still be subject to certain
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14776	And that's what I said to Mr. Križanović very precisely, I really don't know, here's if you think there's something else that needs to be explained,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14777	Here, try to formulate, please let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14778	Well, here, I've been very precise in formulating. So, by respecting the debate, the fact that the Commission has accepted the amendments and the debate that was being held here today and the fact that there have been additional amendments that have been called for by the Rules of Procedure, and the new circumstances, it accepts the principles of the law. And that means differentiated rate. And what will be within this differentiated and analytical 15-day consultation, and what is the issue? And I think let's be serious. Please, I'm putting that conclusion to the vote. He's the attitude of the College, and I think most of them as much as I see clubs. I'm asking Dom to make a statement about the conclusion I made here. Please vote now. So I find that the House with 33 votes to, without votes against and 2 abstentions and enough entity majority accepted this conclusion and I ask the Commission to further implement this conclusion within these deadlines and thank you very much. I'm taking a break in consulting with the College until 1315. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, Add.18. Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy of BiH, in its first reading, has been law No 01-02-2-7004 since 28/07. 76 Proposal for a Law was delivered to us on 28.07. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee delivered its opinion on 02.08. and the Commission was the Finance and Budget Commission, which submitted the proposal report on 02.09. The proposal for a law has not been amended, but the Commission has corrected certain accuracy in paragraph 3 of Article 239 or has set out the content of paragraph 4 of this Article. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the BiH Customs Policy Bill proposal concerning the number I have already read in the first reading. Vote now. With 20 votes in favour, and enough entity majority, no votes against, two abstentions, we passed this law in the first reading. I suggest that Dom plead whether or not we accept it in the second reading, since there were no amendments. I'm asking you to vote on it. Vote now. So the second time in the second reading, we're going to make a statement about this law. Moving to point 19. That's it, Ad.19. The proposal for a law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt, in our first reading on the 42nd session, we adopted a shortened procedure. The Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee delivered its opinion on 26th of July and the Commission's report delivered on 02.09. The Commission adopted one amendment and no amendments were made during the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Mr. Moranjkić, question.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14779	I'm surprised you weren't registered. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14780	It often changes you and Mr. Mirko Blagojević, here I have again here, technique please check.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14781	I've been reading this proposal and I've come across a few misunderstandings for me, so I'd just like to take the form of a question. I don't know, since I don't know who's gonna answer me here, but I'm gonna get it registered. What time period, it is known to be the final, is not the initial period covered by this law and why these 493,665 which, by the way, are mathematically or accountingly not in line with Article 2 which did this analytically, are not the same amount but, let's say, not to be a stickler in about thirty, forty marks is not the same amount. Why do they call themselves controversial, because through the law, what they call the disputed one, it is not in ordinary practice called controversial claims. I wonder why they call him the slow one. On what grounds is he controversial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14782	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Are there any more reported? There isn't. Since there are no more reported, I propose that the proposal for a law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of BiH's internal debt be made known to the House in the first reading. 78 Vote now. With 21 votes for, without votes against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the proposal for a law on determining and how to settle BiH's internal debt in the first reading was adopted. I'll see again if there's a mood, there were no amendments in the second reading, there was no change. Please rationalize the work of the House. Just for that reason vote now, would you like another reading? So we have a majority of both general and entity. I would also ask the House in the second reading to declare itself in the bill on the establishment and method of reconciliation of BiH's internal debt. Vote now. I agree that with 23 votes for, without votes against, four abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we have adopted the proposal for a bill on the establishment and method of reconciliation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal debt and in the second reading. Thank you very much. We're going to the 20th agenda, that's Ad.20. The proposal for a law on the State Border Service in the first reading of the 79 requests of the Council of Ministers for Procedure after 104th we received at the last session. Opinion of Constitutional and ustavno-pravni 02.08., report of the Commission concerned was delivered to us on 02.09. The Commission adopted six amendments. In the plenary phase, we have amendments to Mrs. Seada Palavrić, an amendment that contests Amendment V, which the commission adopted and an amendment that defends in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. No reports or anything? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal for a law on the State Border Service in the first reading. Vote now. So, with 26 votes for, without votes against and with 2 abstentions, enough entity majority, we've adopted the bill on the State Border Service in the first reading. We have two amendments. Should we go to another reading today? Okay, I'll take this one, since I've been testing the Dom around these laws, please make a statement about the second reading today. Shall we move on to another reading of this law? Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, So we don't have the necessary entity majority for the second reading. We'll do the same thing with other laws that had that destiny. The second reading will be at the next session and the amendment decision. I thank the MPs. Moving on, that's the 21st point of the agenda, Ad.21. The proposal for a law on supervision and control of the crossing of the state border was in the first reading of the same procedure as with the previous law, with the commission adopting seven amendments. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the control and control of the crossing of the state border, in the first reading. Mr. Šefik Džaferović, First Deputy Chairman. So Mr. Ćeman, did you sign up?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14783	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Defence and Security Policy Committee had this law at its session. You've received a report from the commission. However, after the commission completed its work, we all received one letter from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and I think we have one intervention from the Office of the High Representative in that justice. In fact, it's about some of the details that this law should be completed. Anyway, it concerns those provisions concerning the transfer of this personal weapon across the border. I think it would be a good idea for us to reopen this amendment phase today and task the commission to give us a new report, so that the commission can take all these facts that later came up into consideration and offer Parliament the best possible law. Thank you very much. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14784	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14785	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I did not agree with my colleague Džaferović about this, but I wanted to point out a similar matter and not repeat what we have already heard. I'd just like to point out, and here's what I didn't do in the amendment phase, expecting to hear a little bit and possibly a representative of the promoter, regardless of how this commission phase went through, etc. In accordance with Article 37(3), it is said that the activities of measuring, marking and maintaining border markings at the regulated state border and preparing state border documents are carried out by the Ministry of Civil Affairs in co-operation with the geodetic administrations of entities. I will now announce here, in fact, I have been working for a relatively long time to prepare a law that will treat the issues of this geodesy, i.e. geodetic administrations, and here we have been witnesses lately and some media advances in this sense, so I just wanted to point out the fact that really issues of this kind in all of here are that I also use this expression, however rationally and on certain principles of regulated states are the competences of professional or administrative institutions of the state level. I don't dispute, of course, that at this point we have the geodetic administrations of entity, but the project that I'm going to propose will deal with issues at the state level. So I should consider and appeal to consider that these issues are actually in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs but in co-operation with the competent geodetic administration and it should in any case be the administration at the state level. So I point only to this question as one of the important and principled issues, because as they behave in other countries, I will certainly try to offer appropriate solutions in the next stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14786	I thank Mr. Ćeman. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. So we have a six-amendment commission report. We have a proposal to give an additional deadline for the amendments that have come and requests from the IRS to be included. I don't mind as chairman, I think we can accept that, to give an additional 15-day period and to have the commission prepare a full report, a new report. Can we accept this conclusion? I'm putting him on a plea. I'm asking Dom to vote now. Unanimously, 29 votes are in favour, the proposal for a conclusion I have proposed, which gives the new deadline to the commission, to prepare a new report within 15 days, respecting the circumstances presented by Mr Džaferović in his discussion. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 22nd point, that's Ad.22. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH, in the first reading I will subsjites you, we received the procedure shortened at the 42nd session. We received its opinion Constitutional-Legally on 29th of July, and its report as relevant was delivered to us on 03.9th, and 81 has been forwarded to you immediately. The Commission adopted four amendments. Mrs. Ruža Sopta has filed twelve amendments she wants to defend at the plenary stage. And we have an amendment to Mr. Momčilo Novaković, who according to the records I have here, late because he wasn't handed over 48 hours before the plenary session. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH. Mr. Ivica Marinović, Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, answered the words, please welcome Mr. Marinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14787	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents, the Honorable MPs and representatives of this high House. At the very beginning, let us conclude that the achievement of progress towards the retraining of the institutions is a priority from the Study of Implementation of the European Commission. Entity representatives, representatives of the Justice Ministry, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees also participated in this draft. And also international organisations among which the OHR, the OSCE and the European Commission as well as the Council of Europe should be singled out. The haste led to the fact that members of the parliamentary trust did not have a copy of the opinion of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, which was submitted on 1 September this year. Therefore, the parliamentary commission could not take into account the views of experts of the Venice Commission. Also, in his opinion and demand, the OSCE found, in connection with the repairs offered, that some of the additional amendments and additions would essentially change the provisions of the original draft law of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. It is particularly important that several additional amendments and additions change the final structure of the new and unique ombudusman institution. Other amendments and additions would change the transparent and open process of appointment that we consider crucial for the independence of the single institution of the ombudusman. The European Commission, the OSCE, the Council of Europe are key participants in discussions on the future of the ombdusman institution and none of these organisations have been officially informed of any further amendments and additions and means the OSCE requires a shorter period of talks based on the opinion of the Venice Commission before Parliament takes a look at the draft of this law. In my view, it would be logical to act as well as with similar supporting points of the agenda, which is to postpone the debate until the commission of this high House sees these new facts, possibly new repairs and make a new report for this high House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14788	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinović. Dr. Petar Kunić, here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14789	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding this proposal, we had a different view on the Constitutional Commission itself. But I must say, personally, I've already gone over a little bit of the vote on the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission is an important committee for parliamentary work. I don't think that I should mention it for the first time more seriously 82 would have to come to the conclusion of some texts, especially if the elements embedded on the Constitutional Commission were to enter the final text and go before Parliament. I think that's unfortunately settled in the Rules of Procedure. And I must say that I will not vote for the Rules of Procedure next unless the decision-making is changed in the Rules of Procedure because in some way, forgive this in this expression, it goes into harassment, because it can harass most minorities and minorities can harass the majority. And it seems to me that most people here are harassing the minority. There's almost never any understanding of any remarks, almost never. I mean, I'm the first vice president of that committee, and I've warned before, and I'm warning you now and this opportunity. We've had objections to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law for the following reasons. Legally speaking, therefore purely legal, from a formal point of view, the Parliamentary Assembly cannot do away with entity ombudusmen. Constitutional principles say the principle of exclusive division of jurisdiction has been accepted. So it was precisely determined what ombdusman is doing at BiH level. Entities of the laws regulate the ombdusman's district in their domain. There's no such hierarchical relationship. I would like to hear some lawyers who can find a legal basis for the legal hierarchy in this respect, and that is the principle of authority, that Parliament can amend a law or, respectively, eliminate it from the legal system of entity laws. He can't. He can only go where he's strictly in charge. And these are the tax-related cases or cases when transferred from entity to BiH institutions. So these things are very clear. In addition, do not speak of one provision of the resuscitation(?) jurisdiction in favour of an entity I've never heard of in this House. Of course, because you're going to a very rigorous centralization. Anyway, laugh at you two about this, but I'll try to explain. No matter what the Council of Europe has or has made a recommendation. The Council of Europe's recommendation is not binding. I don't think it's possible to discuss this issue without an entity assembly decision. It's not legally possible. In particular, I have this conclusion from the entity assembly that says, the National Assembly of the RS insists on preserving the institutions of the RS ombdusman with the necessary rationalisation, coordination and co-operation of the ombudusman at the state and entity level. So, in some ways, the MPs from the RS are bound by this decision, and we are asking that the previous RS Assembly be made aware of this issue. It is not possible by this law, which says in the opinion of the Venice Commission, that entities must, with their legislation, eliminate their ombudusms in the transitional period. Therefore, the previous action should be followed, and that is the decisions of the entity assembly. I therefore accept this proposal, that this issue should be extended, delayed and the debate allowed to be held at a further stage. We do have a decision or recommendation from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but I'm asking a question, so who put it out? I personally know they're doing a very big lobbying towards European institutions. And who's the ombdusman bothering? And in other countries ombudusmans are even at local level or for certain areas. In Switzerland you have an ombudusman in the cantons but you do not have state level although Mrs. Haler's first ombdusman was here ombdusman BiH. You have ombdusmans in the U.S. in the states but you're not at US level, etc. I don't know who's minding an ombdusman at entity level. Or who contests the right that the entity cannot have its own ombudusman. Is this the Council of Europe, or the Parliamentary Assembly? Does she have that right? Is it democratic, is it lit about in the function of protecting human rights? I'm sure he didn't. These are institutions that need to be closer to the citizens than to distance them from the citizens. Well, of course they're more functional if they're closer to the citizens than if they're away from the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14790	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković has the word. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14791	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I will, of course, sign 90% of Professor Kunić's discussion and share his findings on the principles on which this law rests. But what I've come to say is, that's why I didn't answer for it, but I'm saying I won't repeat what I've heard and what we've heard, when we talk about principles, we're also talking about the need for law-making. I guess it would be logical if someone had to say what was wrong in the current system, so we need to change that. Whether at the level that's now protecting human rights she's violated more than she would have been if she were some other level. So that's the key question why the unique function of an ombudusman. Will that if it's on a unique level some problem will be solved. And if so, and if these people at this level right now, I don't speak personally, I speak in function have not met the conditions, why are they doing this job? So I haven't found an argument in the whole case that I have here, I haven't found any arguments that contribute to the need to even pass this law. Therefore, as for the reasons mentioned in Professor Kunić's discussion, SDS will not support the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14792	Thank you very much. No more reports. Mr. Huskić, replica. Well, Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14793	I volunteered for the rplic after my colleague Kunić, but it looks like a technique
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14794	I haven't seen it before, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14795	It's a stealth technique. I thank God I'm not a lawyer, so I let some things in the field of law I don't understand and I can afford it, that luxury. My colleague is a doctor of law, and I'd just like him to tell me, since she mentioned it here, is actually the conclusion of an entity's assembly, which entity law legally obliges a member of the state parliament to behave one way or another? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14796	I thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Replication before, Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14797	Or you don't understand this, in that area of law. So it's not surface, but it's going a little deeper in fact. So the BH Constitution shares jurisdiction. He says what the entity's competences are, what the BH institutions are and has beautifully established Anex VI Omdusman BiH and determined its competences. The Constitution of Annex VI did not establish its jurisdiction in the Corps of Dayton Agreements. Entities themselves have passed laws on the ombdusman, arranged a matter that does not enter the BH institutions' matter. Therefore, there is no possibility for institutions such as Parliament to eliminate, therefore, through subordination, co-boarded powers to eliminate this law at entity level, but entities can, as it says in the views of the Venice Commission, so that entities can bring their legislation, abolish this, ombudusmen if that is so, 84 if they assess that they should, or if they accept these suggestions and recommendations. That's the previous question. So entities have to make a statement about this issue so we can discuss it. As they conclude, I will always vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14798	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14799	I'm sorry to have to repeat the discussion we've already had on this subject again, and when it comes to voting in the Constitutional-Spain Commission, you can't always say when my opinion doesn't win that I'm outvoted and that it's a vote. It's been done by the Rules of Procedure, and so many times some of my amendments haven't passed or thought, but my Bog, it's the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, it cannot be said that there is no need to pass such a law when we know that one of BiH's post-accession commitments to the Council of Europe is the unification of an ombudusman institution that was to be completed by 24 April this year. So in the second year since BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. Third, it is ignored that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has the power of constitutional provisions, and that it is precisely asking that the BiH state be provided as a member, as a party to the European Convention, as a country which has joined the Convention to ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights. I, too, dreamt that BiH citizens can already go to Strasbourg and that however the BiH Constitutional Court is the last human rights facility in the country, we should also ensure that the state Ombdusman is an institution that will provide protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the segment before the Constitutional Court. And the BiH Constitution does not violate entity rights at all because entities are already working on it. In fact, the Federation's Parliament, the Federation government, is already working to bring the Federation Constitution into line with the needs that require the unification of the ombudusman institutions and lead to the BiH state that has about 3.5 million inhabitants having a single ombudusman institution. Instead of spending at least half a million a year now, the three ombdusman institutions would be able to save at least one million a year and ensure that the protection is uniformly unified, standardised and equal for all citizens in the entire BiH area. So, all the reasons and the need to unite the Ombdusman institution are there, and if you need an additional commission phase, actually an additional commission report, obviously due to new moments, I understand and support this need, but the law is certainly necessary in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14800	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, then Mrs. Sopta, if it's a replica, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14801	It can be indicated to be a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14802	Please indicate that we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14803	Mrs. Palavrić has read the BH Constitution several times. I've read it, and it's in the function of the entity to protect human rights, specifically written. So don't look, there's a view in this House that prevails, I must say, that everything from the state's position is seen. It's not seen from the position that this is a federal state, that it has two parts now and the Brcko District is either, with a specific status but it's under the direct management of BH. Therefore, that fact is neglected, especially on the Constitutional Commission, and it has gone to one very much to say the irritable situation. Irritable situation, I'm not saying that Mrs. Palavrić was sometimes not overvoted but please repeat it is a sitting group, I'm not going to say who, but that a group in continuity is revoted. We have to ask ourselves, so my people, wait, so we can't do it all the time. It's not good for relationships. And what is achieved by it. There's no effect on one vote, no deal to see. I don't know why it went when I say ombdusman, the ombdusman descends towards the citizens and doesn't stray from the citizens, and then it's more efficient. And that's what other countries do, and we're a complex state, so the federal state is going to end the Ombdusman Federal Units. For me, it's neither logical nor unacceptable absolute, I know it's the expression of a lobbying. Maybe there's a Doris pak or I don't know who, and let's face it, you back it up, you get it through the European Parliament. It's, it's private. I know today that relationship works very well. I deal with these things. But, please, we're here to see if that's good, it's not good. I don't know who bothers an ombudusman when it's useful to be at entity level and I think it's useful even to be at canton level, because it does,...it keeps at the community level but we're too busy. The basic preoccupation is all at the state level, and the constitutional position is completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14804	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mrs. Ruža Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14805	Since I seem to have the only renewed amendment at this stage, I am obliged to say that I would be happy and satisfied if that Mr. Kunić came true, so if every municipality had its own ombudusman. However, in the proposal here that I received, and the demands set before the adoption of such a law on amendments, it seemed to me understood. I also understood the introduction of rationalization and the introduction of a single criterion of Ombdusman's work. I was in that first class reading this law and proposing amendments accordingly. I think the rationalization itself is happening with the proposed abolition of the existing nine ombudusmans, the rationalization of leading to three ombdusmans of the existing, it seems to me 21 deputies, to lead to three deputies. And I also hold that by introducing unique criteria for the work of all ombudusmans. I'm holding it one big shift in this section, in this law, and that's how I wanted to support it. The Omdusman institution at BiH level has very high powers. I don't know, I believe it would be even more rational if we had an ombudusman, but it seems to me that we're neither a country, nor are you coming to this country to have words now about the establishment of an ombudusman, because at the moment of passing an existing law when it is said that there are three ombudusmans, or when an institution of multiethnic, an ethnic institution is being introduced to me, it's also logical, that since the country that came out of the war, which is currently in those institutions and at the entity and at the state level of the most difficult just asked from the war, not to say that they're on a national basis, it was quite logical and reasonable and wise to leave at the level of the state an institution of ombudusman with three, this institution with three ombudusman. With a transitional period where the work of entity ombudusmans would be combined with this, so as not to suffer, or to make a transitional period so reasonable that it does not suffer the citizen. 86 I was expecting and expecting in further work, I will defend my amendments but I expected and expect in further work and in the reorganization of the ombudusman that those who are more dislocated rather than centralised, as one can read here, rather than dislocated with their offices even to the level of the municipalities. Especially when these institutions evaluate what are the most priority municipalities. Where there are most objects. This seems to me that the effectiveness of the proposed amendments to the law, it seems to me that the effectiveness of Ombdusman is at least at stake and I hold that, if my amendments are not already passed, then it would also be necessary to address the powers of the institution and possibly act in amendment. I mainly gave on the organisation and work of Ombdusman at country level, or at the organisation of that institution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14806	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I will remind you, not to enter into the content of the debate and the arguments which the MPs have made here, that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ombdusmen Act of that 44 law, therefore it is not only about post-accession obligations to the Council of Europe, but it is about the assessment of the Performance Study and this, therefore, by refusing to enter or open the issues that some MPs have raised, we have nevertheless accepted this package of laws in terms of obligations that we will meet to come into the situation to enter the stabilisation and accession process. This does not mean that the content of the law must be such and that it is discussed, repaired and changed. I think that's correct to say here for all the MPs. And I'm judging, I don't want anyone to question this need for this law, but a solution within it, and here we have a motion and I think it's on the trail and here the debate that was, to set a deadline maybe 30 days. It is sufficient time-limit, a reasonable time-limit for both consultations and crucial actions to be carried out and amendments to the office and to be done by the relevant committee in cooperation with the Council of Ministers. So, this month's deadline I think is enough. We shouldn't go any further, because then comes the pace of passing the law. I'm asking you to appreciate this. I think I've looked at all the elements that were presented here in the debate. Can we accept this conclusion? I suggest that the House plead. You're voting now. So, with 26 votes to, without votes against, 3 abstentions, we accepted this conclusion by a sufficient entity majority that the commission is making a new report within 30 days based on what I suggested. I thank all the MPs. Moving to the 23rd point, that's Ad.23. The proposal for a law on missing persons in BiH, in the first reading, was delivered to us in 2106, is under regular procedure. The Commission's report was delivered on 30.08. Three amendments were adopted on the bill. There are no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 87 I ask the House to declare the proposal for a law on missing persons in BiH, in the first reading. Vote now. I find that we are unanimous, so with 28 votes to accept the proposal for a law on missing persons in the first reading. I suggest we make a statement if we're going to go to another reading. Vote now. So we have the majority and the general and the entity for the second reading. I ask the House that since there was no amendment in the plenary phase to declare the proposal of this law and in the second reading. Vote now. With 28 votes to, 1 against, we accepted enough entity majority as the House of Representatives of the Bill on Missing Persons in BiH and in the second reading. I thank the MPs. We're going to 24th, that's Ad.24. The proposal for a bill on salaries and fees to the holders of the judicial and prosecutorial duties of civil servants and employees in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH was the Administrative Commission in the first reading. She delivered the report to us on 26th of July. The draft law as you have seen has been adopted, in the proposed text there have been no amendments in either the commission or the plenary phase. Who said? Please don't let the authorities come, let them address officially, and if I want to communicate, there's no withdrawal of the law from this stage, so don't let us play in Parliament here. There's been an open debate over the law itself. Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14807	I accept that the debate is open and the president is quite right. However, it is true that you have found that there are no proposed amendments, but there was obviously a need for amendments because it is not quite clear here whether it is only the judges of the Court of Justice, the prosecutors and the BiH Prosecutors' Office or all the judges and prosecutors, in fact all judges at the level of BiH. There are other dilemmas. When it comes to height and salary ratios in this institution and I ask this House to accept, even with this law, an additional deadline for the commission to submit a new report and that MPs have at least 7 or 15 days to submit new amendments. I know this shouldn't be a practice, but here it is today with a large number of laws, I think it would be very comprehensive to make it possible. Otherwise, the SDA can't support a law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14808	Mr. Beriz Belkić. Anybody else want some? Then Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14809	We really, in some ways, brought ourselves into a situation when we had procedural opportunities we didn't intervene, for the simple reason that old principled nature, some amendments, etc. The matter cannot be fixed, namely, from the point of view of the overall wage system in this country. So we have institutions that are singled out, dislocated from the system of total some of their parameters set up. I absolutely don't mind. Let them have 15 grand, I absolutely don't mind, but it must be part of the entire system. So, including all institutions, all of this, budget consumers. We were just talking about the Value Added Law, the amount of resources needed, etc. So we need to get into the essence of the problem within public spending when it comes to the salaries of all those who are financed from the budget, including our debates in the CRA, our discussions in the Constitutional Court and this court on MPs here and so on. So we won't support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14810	Okay. But please, before I give my word to Mr. Ivo Miri Jović, give it to everyone when you get up for principle and then five times a day, without talking about the Council of Ministers pulling something that has been suggested to us a month ago, without the right person to pull it back. The Minister can't take it back either. Only a council meeting can do that. And I want to work like that here and let us understand each other, so we're just changing this law tomorrow. Come on, no, no, it's not about you, Berize, but I have requests to extend the phase, there's no amendment, there's no. I apologize for this depression. Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14811	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll just say a few sentences on behalf of the HDZ Club. First, the title of this law makes it clear what the problem of this law is. And she's not questionable, so I don't see that there could be any objections to exactly what regulation is about this law. As we have seen so far, and in the course of this session, wherever we could do this step further, in order to regulate the legal problems in this country, we have made these steps. I was just a moment ago, and I showed my disfavor by voting against an extremely important law, and I voted against it. Just because I didn't make the amendments in time. And I should have and it was much, much more important than this question. That's why I want to shorten and say, HDZ will support both readings of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14812	Mr. Nikola Špirić. Are there any more formal hearings? Mr. Petar Kunić, after Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14813	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests, I can't really understand, so I think my fellow chairman here I draw attention to the fact that 89 we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I have a feeling as far away as Parliament's work goes, not today, but that we are ready to work a little bit outside of the Rules of Procedure. So it's a very clear legal project. They're a little bit out of these hints and clear reasons why some won't vote for this law, but I also consider it the right of MPs, but I think this is a good thing to settle the law. Is anyone gonna be able to get someone who learned to work for 8,000 marks, to work for 2.5 thousand marks, about that? Whether there's gonna be a candidate or there's no candidate, but let's look the truth in the eye. Why isn't this a good law? Tell me. Is someone defending the MPs to pass the general wage regulation in the state services? Is he defending anyone? But this is good until we have that law to have. Of course there are illogicalities. But I have a feeling there's a hearing again because there are some who receive salaries not only from the Budget of BiH, and why we don't fix this law. And I think, as far as I'm concerned, I didn't have an amendment in the first or second stages, I'm willing to support this legislative proposal both in the first and second readings, but I don't dispute that it's the right of an MP to vote wherever he wants, so let some laws fall because there isn't a majority, so look, please, please, but that's a relationship, this Parliament's relationship to the Council of Ministers. Well, as a bear rotted by pears here, representatives of the parliamentary majority choose, as if it were not the Council of Ministers they chose and ministers who write the law. Please, it turns out that the opposition is able to support more laws that come from the Council of Ministers than those from the parliamentary majority. Mrs. Palavrić, I've been listening to you. I know it's hard to find those who judge 8,000 marks by order of the parties and that they won't judge for 2.5 they'll have to look for others. I'm sorry it's so, but it says if we have professional courts, prosecutors, people who are willing to work, to share this people's torment. Well, it seems that the BiH Court of Justice could only live on the basis of the salaries that were set to stimulate them, but how long? How long? Why shouldn't the law regulate it? I am ready to support what my colleague Ivo Miro Jović said. There are no amendments to vote, but don't put in practice that new moments are something that the new moment isn't. But I do not dispute the right of an MP to give his vote for or against. I mean, quite logical.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14814	I thank Mr. Špirić. I've just warned that, and I think we're moving like the College when it comes to this point in the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14815	Thank you, Chairman. In this case, I would support Mrs Palavrić's proposal for reasons, it is a very sensitive issue not only because it is sensitive, which is not taken care of at all in BiH institutions. This is a very important issue and the government is a mess in this regard. I would remind you that we have reached one conclusion quite a long time ago. It is not realised to get information, therefore, that Parliament gets information from all institutions, of all BH institutions, to see salaries. So, both from the prosecution and from the judiciary. I'm stealing this idea, here's Professor Avdić, saying that this law should solve the prosecution and the judiciary. You absolutely should. So, solve another one, you have to look at
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14816	...have you read the law? 90
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14817	Not just that. I say we take a look at this whole problem and put the law on, and I certainly don't dispute the law. He's primarily needed. But just a little bit to do another thing I wanted to say. It's very difficult, Mr. Špirić, he is so worthy of reminding the professor, whether I have read it or not, and don't do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14818	No, I didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14819	Don't do that anymore, tell someone else, don't tell me. I read a long time ago, you didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14820	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14821	Not half as much as I've read. Don't talk about it here. And please be nice. Please don't pull my tongue. So I think I should accept this idea and sort this out as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14822	I thank Professor Kunić. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14823	Mr. Chairman, I should now ask by which law are the judges and prosecutors now paid? Is there even a law? If there's no law, then it makes sense that we should pass the law. If we don't want the law, then we have to say that we want all the problems on the whole level, all of us to fix it, and we'll never get to the law. I'm telling you, we're not getting to the law. So here is the proposal that something that is not legally regulated and exists, we regulate. I don't know what the salaries are in the Court or the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I don't know. I have a proposal here. I guess whoever suggested this took care of it. Since I assume he was keeping an eye on it, and given the fact that this area is not covered by law, I believe that there are all the conditions that we are discussing the law today and that the law is passed or not adopted. No Niko, no one forbids gentlemen that anything else that's been said here doesn't regulate as well as any other law. That's not controversial. And if we think we're going to make them adopt this one, make sure no one makes them propose them because we haven't adopted this one, because many answer that this law isn't passed. That is, those who should be forced to do so answer not to be adopted. So, the SDS Club will support this law in first reading, and the principles of this law and the need to pass this law, and if the chairman puts it on the agenda and second reading, we will also make a positive statement about today's declaration in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14824	Thank you, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14825	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, there is nothing more difficult and complex than building a country and passing system laws. If that is simply the purpose of this Parliament, and it is and should be the goal, then it is paliably ripped from the frigmet, from the state of law making, it does not lead to anything. He's just causing trouble to this BiH state. Which means, the fragmentary adoption of one law for one category of people, at BiH level, is absolutely not desirable to expect the Council of Ministers to build a system in BiH, the system. Which means he has sent us the Council of Ministers' law with the following name, which is the proposal for a bill on salaries and fees for judges' and prosecutors' offices and state officials and employees in BiH's courts and prosecutors' offices. Now that would be the real law that this Parliament should simply expect. And I propose that the Council of Ministers make an effort under the urgent law to refer to parliamentary procedure, otherwise we create problems between certain levels of judicial and prosecutorial functions and in this context really create dissension among people, a complete system. Please, since there is no authority from the Council of Ministers to offer us such a law as we do not have, which means the Council of Ministers should review the constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law. And surely these levels down there would not rebel from the aspect of the level of salary of these levels at BiH level. Don't worry about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14826	Is there more than one reported? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14827	I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14828	I thank you, too, for always signing up in good time, so I can plan my work as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14829	Can I do it now? I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14830	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14831	Otherwise, under one of the previous points of the agenda, I learned not to comment even on unsatisfactory remarks on my account. This, given that Mr. Chairman, we have a agenda item on the Moratorium's resolution to all laws, decisions introducing new privileges by the elected official on the executive legislative wave whose proposing, which I hope will soon come to the agenda, and already has the support of the Administrative Commission, I have no doubt that it will also have full support for this Parliament. I would not like to take part in the vote of one law, or 92 of its support in the first reading, so that five minutes after that I adopt a resolution that is practically possible, and I don't know if it conflicts with what we adopted before. In the materials that we have otherwise obtained, this law contains what we knew less, which is that this area has not been regulated by law, but we do not know objectively what colleague Novaković was talking about, how many are really receiving people that we are now regulating by law. And that's a good thing to do. However, if I did a good calculation, here from the opportunity of the base of the salary is 2.5 average net salary, that the coefficient is 2.4, which means the average salary is multiplied by 2.5 so multiply by 2.4. When you do, then you get to coefficient 6. So then in the next article he says, in the next article he says that the participants and prosecutors have a 50% supplement from this previous one, which is now -- so you have 2.5, and then in the second 2.4, and then 50%, and what he says is just math, that's 2.5 times 2.4 plus, times 1.5, is equal to 1.9. Maybe that's okay, I don't know, but it would be good if we were to have a comparison calculations, what is it with regard to current budget givings and how much is it compared to others. For a moment, let's leave the judges and prosecutors. In this last part, Chapter 4, which refers to the salaries and intentions of civil servants in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, it is practically said that they pay both fees and other rights from the employment relationship of civil servants and employees is determined by the act of the court in accordance with this law. Translated into our language, this means that paroleally speaking, the scribe of someone who works in the office here has a different salary than someone who works on the office there. Someone who works at the phone station here and there has different salaries. Whether it's okay or not, I don't know, but it'd be good to see if it's proposed here. Then that's in accordance with the Civil Service Act. Is there a civil servant here and in the D.A.'s office, then, someone who's an accountant there and here. I understand that prosecutors and judges have but does anyone who runs and writes books lead in the D.A.'s office whether he has a different salary and a different base than someone who's an accountant here behind this glass curtain. From all of this, Mr. Chairman, the SDP MPs' club is really in the middle of a dilemma about how to discuss this because we don't have enough data. What this means and what it is here, a team more than it is, I hope and would expect the motionary to answer at least the question. What are the resources for the one that's being singled out? How much this law will mean to reduce these salaries or to increase and, if it so wishes, to reflect on the budget and the overall relations that should be met and fulfilled here. And in some ways, I'm joining my colleague, Belkić, whether, in his observations, that this is something that deserves a little more serious proposal, so that we don't get into problems that we don't need later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14832	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Anybody else want to do this? Is there anything the promoter has to say now that I'm not? You've got nothing. It's because of correctness, that it would be all the way it was today. So we have procedural requirements also to go to an additional report and we have this, a situation that we can declare about the law already today. And, uh, I'm going to put the motion to vote today to draw up a new report. If we don't, then we'll plead the law. I think that's correct. I ask the House of Representatives to plead, say Mr. Kunić. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14833	He reminded us that we asked all the other institutions, that we mentioned some agencies with huge salaries, why we're not asking the other institutions to see the salaries. Let's see the data. We're right about that. The government this chaos, please, we all know it and we ask it if there is a conclusion of this House I don't know about 7-8 months ago about it we took a stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14834	I accept that this conclusion is being updated in particular in light of the conclusion that we will now see his fate, that a new report is being given, that in consultation with the Council of Ministers as a proposing, this issue is being resolved. Here's what I'm putting on the statement of this proposal. Please vote for an additional report. So he doesn't have an entity majority. So agreeing in the College will be in line with the Rules of Procedure along with the alignment and the previous points where there were no entity majority around the conclusion, yes. So let's move on to the next item of the agenda. That's Ad.25. A report by the BiH Election Commission on the financing of the 2004 municipal elections You received a report. At the meeting, we invited a representative of the report's applicant. Do you, sir, want anything sooner? Na, only if there are questions. I'm opening a debate on the report. Does anyone want to hear about this report? Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14835	Here's just a question for Mr. Šehić. In this final phase of the BiH Election Law, when it comes to funding, then I think one of the principles was, and as far as I understand the text of the law, it is also built up, so it is also adopted, that the defacto for that part of the electoral actions that are out of jurisdiction, therefore, the Electoral Commission, or let me tell that central authority, the funds are provided precisely from the BiH institutions' budget and those other possible choices but for that level, and possibly only that part of the electoral activities, the electoral actions for which the lower authorities, the municipal electoral commissions are responsible, and thus the funds are planned at that level. So, I'm curious, I've been looking at these indicators here, a comment on behalf of the Electoral Commission on whether this approach has been achieved and whether it is possible to request the practice from municipal levels, etc. are in some way by intensity consistent with that earlier concept? In fact, there is a series of activities that the BiH Election Commission is truly carrying out in a specific case, and there is really no longer any point in providing funds at lower levels than through this budget, so to say to the BiH Election Commission to provide them. Such an approach will, in fact, be solved in a different way by me, there will be so many of these gloves from which these finances will be drawn, but therefore at 94 central state level. To what extent is this present and are the problems due to this conceptual deviation or are they in something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14836	Mr. Šehić, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14837	He gave up.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14838	He gave up. Is there more? If I don't give my word to Mr. Šehić, go ahead. Here, please don't have a microphone there, so if you can get a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14839	The electoral commission would certainly be the happiest to vote in BiH, regardless of what levels it is, to finance from the BiH state's Budget and to go out with instruments to provide funds for lower levels of government. The law is clear. The municipal elections are funded from their municipal budgets, until we change the law it will have to be. It certainly makes it difficult for both the Electoral Commission and the municipal electoral committees for one simple reason because we are aware that many municipalities do not have their own resources to finance their budgets but are being financed from solidarity. Surely because we are counting, and that is why we have asked lower levels of government to engage in this whole process because we have come into the situation in the past elections which should have been fragmented by municipalities, they have said not our choices, they are like some others because they are higher, we come to a situation when we warn about money that some other levels of government say these are municipal, these are not ours, and it would be best if in the next period when the election law on how to finance elections is being implemented, what would be most optimal for all BiH states to finance all elections in BiH. In short, I'd like to introduce you that there won't be a problem with a grenade going to the Electoral Commission. However, we fear that the municipalities will remain and deny the right of many members of the electoral committees not to receive that legal fee. I would now ask you because we, however, come from local communities to try to secure funds for members of the electoral committees and slowly restore trust in institutions and responsibility for the regularity of the elections is, first of all, on members of the election boards, because with them we also come to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14840	Thank you very much, Mr. Šehić. Any more questions? Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14841	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, I just want to say a few words. I think that the BiH Election Commission, perhaps the only committee that has such co-operation with the state parliament, I think that only in relation to this kind of co-operation is the mutual respect and respect and regular reporting of Parliament can all the problems that are in the way of the BiH Election Commission, in that sense, I welcome their relationship with Parliament and the way they coordinate with Parliament. I am pleased that most of the funds are simply provided for the financing of these local elections and perhaps 95 that this is an opportunity to appeal to those local communities, which have not yet solved the problem, therefore, to be solved and what is very good, and this is the President of the Election Commission Mr. Šehić said that it would be good for the members of the election boards to pay the financial compensation already on October 3rd evening, so that people gain confidence in BiH institutions, so that they do not seek their rights for half a year and a year after the local elections were held. And I would also like to congratulate the BiH Election Commission on its successful work on preparing this election. I hope that the complete course of the procedure will be implemented to the satisfaction of BiH citizens, who will have the opportunity to choose and, what is very important is to provide enough funds for members of the electoral committees to be paid in time. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14842	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14843	I have to admit, I didn't understand any of this, so I'd like to get it straight first. I did not understand Mr. Šehić's proposal when he said it should fall out of the BiH budget, what some municipalities did not, whether I understood it well or did not. Look, we have to define the changes to the law, right, the way it would. Okay, well, that means it's something that could sometimes be done with an act. I want to explain. I didn't realize if it was a proposal or if it was something else, because what I'm saying is that a number of municipalities here treated this problem unseriously. Here, I take it from the other side, where he says, say Gorazda municipality, Konjic and here it says Bosnian Gradiška, I suppose we're thinking of the same, they planned direct costs in their budget, and they had no difficulty, but they didn't plan a grant to the Electoral Commission, and all municipalities could not plan a grant to the Electoral Commission and not pay it now. What were some planning, and others not planning, and will those who did not plan to suffer some consequences now or will those who planned to bear the costs for them? This is, uh, a team before there's a situation here that municipalities can allocate funds. I know that one of these, at least one of these can certainly single out, and I guess all three can stand out as much as they belong, because the allocation of funds is made according to the criteria, so, according to the criteria, which are acceptable. That's why I think it's necessary here, to take it, so I couldn't say the position, but I don't know how to define, in fact, our view that all municipalities are obliged to finish this part of the work, and that those who didn't plan to do it can rebalance the budget. So no one is defending those budget rebalances to introduce that part of the electoral commission and that all municipalities are in an equal relationship, because that is the essence that all municipalities should be in an equal relationship, in order for these local elections to be successful and implemented to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14844	I thank Mr. Novaković. Are there any more reported? We are now declaring ourselves on the Commission's report, respecting these suggestions and asking that this report be forwarded further to the competent institutions, so I was thinking, therefore, of this report, with proposals which have been made here, both for rebalancing and for paying the electoral committees along with your report, from the Council of Ministers to the constituency institutions. Please let us be clear about this report with these conclusions. 96 Vote now. Together with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted the Election Commission's report with these two conclusions. Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Šehić, too. We're going to 26th. Ad.26. Proposal for a resolution on the introduction of moratorium to all laws and decisions, introducing new privileges of elected officials in the executive and legislative authority, the promoters, representatives of Zlatko Lagumdžija We have received a motion for a resolution with the notice of the relevant commission, which has mostly adopted the motion for a resolution and referred it to a further procedure. I'm opening a debate. I give my word to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, the spokesman for the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14845	I thank Mr. Chairman, first of all, I thank all the members of the Administrative Commission, who were patient enough to endure my tenacity, given that this resolution was offered 16.1. o.g. and I sincerely hope that this resolution will be a good example for us that other resolutions like this do not have to pass eight months to meet the House when they are sent to the Commission. That I sincerely hope, if nothing is because yesterday she is one resolution, which refers to Iraq, I hope she comes before this parliament, before the crisis in Iraq ends. We had the Administrative Commission, practically on several occasions and the last session of the Administrative Commission, you can see from this was almost two months ago, when this resolution was accepted. Let me remind you, the direct cause of this resolution was that of the salary increase, which the Administrative Commission adopted, which concerned us MPs, MPs and this resolution should, in a certain way, not only return our receipts, but arrange the whole area and invite practically others when we do our part of the job, so that they do not follow a worse example in the Parliamentary Assembly. Here that, therefore, after several meetings of the Administrative Commission, this text has been refined and in final form, I would like to point to three weights of this resolution. First, that this resolution, however, takes place until the moment the country's overall economic and social situation is such that any new increases can be made. This also means, because, in the meantime, we adopted the Strategy against Poverty, the Development Strategy, that we have very clear parameters, which speak of what it means to improve the economic situation. When this resolution was submitted, perhaps those measures were not effective. This means that we commit ourselves, i.e. to obliging the Council of Ministers, to evaluate the overall economic and social situation in the country at the end of each year in the last quarter, before the budget is adopted, i.e. in the phase... of preparing for the budget, in accordance with the Development Strategy, and that it can be seen whether the previous year was more economically and socially successful, in order to make an increase. This, too, is another important thing here is that this means that by adopting this resolution, the competent commissions should review the decisions, which have been made in the last year and see how, when we're looking at judicial, judicial and prosecutorial institutions like this, when 97 we ask the Justice Department to tell us what the situation in the judiciary is, that our administrative commission also examines its delicacies which are, you know, increasing the salary to the representatives. And, third point, which is specifically referred to, Mr. Chairman, if the House adopts this resolution, I think it should be with it as a resolution of this House, to invite all institutions, above all on federal and lower levels, cantonal and municipal, because the rights of breakthrough lie there. It is known that in public enterprises, I don't know exactly, you could see in the means of information lately, that in public enterprises in Sarajevo Telecom, the director of a public company has a salary that is about 25 averages of personal income per month, of the occasion somehow. Whether it's true or not, unfortunately, I'm afraid it's not the fact that it's even worse. In other words, we have even more in RS such public enterprises, we have in the Federation in cantons, which spend much more money than the economic situation allows. If Parliament adopts this and shows to itself that it is willing to do such a thing, it means that we can turn to lower levels and ask them to edit this in a unique way. And, finally, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind, I would just add one word in this resolution, offered to the previous points of the agenda, which is that it also applies to judicial and prosecutorial institutions, for one simple reason, to cover everything that is paid out of the budget in one way or another. But, of course, if there is resistance to it, I'm willing to withdraw that proposal and I'd be happy with the adoption of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14846	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, I had no doubt it would be a consistent proposal and would drop any category, so thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14847	I thank Mr. Chairman, I was first amazed by Mr. Lagumdžija by this time at the session, but then I saw, in fact, that he had this agenda point. I have to say, a lot of things I don't understand in this resolution, and that probably this moratorium, if I were to carry out, would be a big problem. It's not hard to vote this out, but I think in practice it would be impossible to do it, not because we don't want to vote it here, but because one resolution doesn't have that kind of power that all those who are concerned about it is, they have to respect, that's what this is about,... the resolution has good intentions and probably not, that we don't discuss it for a month before the election, maybe I would support it. But since we spend a month before the election, really, that's one of the reasons why I won't vote for this resolution. The second reason I won't vote for the resolution is because it has proposed SDP. So that's the second reason, which is why the SDP suggested in the election campaign, we discuss it in the election campaign. And, third, while I'm at this salary, I'm asking who took my parliamentary allowance? Basically, why didn't I get a parliamentary allowance for last month, when I worked all month, and when 98 of us here concluded that we were working all the time, not to say we were in a permanent session. So, I'd like that information while I'm on the payroll, it's not about increasing the receipts, it's about reducing the receipts. This resolution is probably already in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14848	I'm asking you nicely to bring the end of today, but that doesn't limit the debate. Who's next? I don't have a report here. Mrs. Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14849	The Chairman is not clear to me what this word of privilege means to me. I know that I have income here in Parliament pay and allowance. The extra goes to full scholarships, and I'm taking the pay home. I'm not privileged to do anything. That's all I ask is what the privilege of having. I don't know what it would take me or not to take. Just what does it mean that I'm privileged here?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14850	Thank you very much. Is there anything to suggest? I don't have any more raps.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14851	Well, nothing, I thank all those who haven't discussed it, especially because I consider it my kind of support, and logically it will be... and Mr. Novaković is just a guilty allegation. I mean, the last thing I'd like for this resolution to result in your new cereal, if it wasn't for sure the purpose, and as far as pre-election times are concerned, I remind you once again of 16.1. The resolution was offered, 16.1. And I'm sorry it wasn't before. I can't believe you guys were just extending this because before the election, I'd be on the agenda. And, uh, one more thing to clear up. Don't think that this resolution isn't there, if this resolution was just adopted today and then that we washed our conscience, that's not the point of the resolution. The resolution is also defined in any other way as something that sets out guidelines for the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions, whose budget we approve. In other words, according to this resolution, the Presidency should have been given the task of Parliament to do certain things. What kind of intelligence do we have? We don't have the authority to go to other levels, let's say we call Telekom to cut his salary. However, if we show this resolution that at the state level, we are being domestically treated. Therefore, I am sure that the entity government, or entity parliaments, will follow us, and that they will, in the framework of their responsibilities, give a warrant to, say, public enterprises to regulate this area in accordance with this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14852	... andproposers and reasons and representatives. We're moving on to a statement on the motion for a resolution. I ask the House by voting now to decide on the proposal for this resolution. Ninety-nine, we're gonna do it again. We're responding, sir. I don't know if I can go any faster. I know that this critical perception of yours is really the fruit of a continuity, but you understand that we do, too. Vote now. So the resolution is accepted. Any other objections to the vote? Thank you very much. I agree that with 16 votes in favour of, 10 against, 3 abstentions and enough entity majority, the motion for a resolution on the introduction of moratories to all laws and decisions, introducing new privileges to elected officials in the executive and legislative power, the proponent of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's representative. Thank you, everyone. We're moving to agenda 27. Ad.27. You have received a proposal from the Council of Ministers for the appointment of Dr Milorad Živanović as a member of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council. In addition to the proposal, you've also received a résumé of the proposed candidate. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the Council of Ministers' proposal that Professor Milorad Živanović is appointed a member of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council. Vote now. I agree that with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and 1 abstention and enough of the entity, we have given the prerogative to appoint Professor Milorad Živanović as a member of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council. I thank the MPs. We're moving on to the 28th point. Ad.28. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the BiH Public Procurement Act in BiH was adopted in various texts in homes, and a process of harmonising the text needs to be implemented. I'd like to propose on behalf of the House of Representatives three members. He has a proposal from the College. Mr. Novaković Momčilo, Mr. Felić Hazim and Mr. Filip Andrić. Any further suggestions? I ask the House to make a statement about the proposal that Mr. Novaković Momčilo, Filip Andrić and Hazim Felić are appointed to the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on public procurement. Vote now. With 28 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned and enough entity majority, we accepted the proposal to agree on the text of the Public Procurement Act in BiH, namely Mr Momčilo Novaković, Mr Filip Andrić and Mr Hazim Felić. We're going to the final point. Here you go. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14853	I would only ask until the next session of interpretations, I think we made a business mistake in voting on the bill of wages and fees of the court and prosecutor's 100 duties. Namely, the chairman suggested a conclusion, which did not have the necessary majority, and I think this conclusion should not go to a consensus, but we should have voted on the law. We didn't agree to a single conclusion, so there's really no need for me, so we should have, when the conclusion wasn't accepted, moved to the vote on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-09-07-0.u14854	I suggest that the College give an interpretation at the next session. Respecting that you set this up, we are obliged to respond as a College. Can you accept the explanation? Okay. Ad.29. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on Privileges and Immunities of the OPC Does anyone want to do this? He doesn't want to. I'm asking Dom to plead. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 29 votes in favour, we agreed to ratify the agreement between BiH and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on Privileges and Immunities of the OPC. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude that we have exhausted the agenda of the 43rd session, which I am concluding in 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
