ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2574	..a little complication because we haven't had a sound and anthem here, and here, my dear ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, your Excellency, honored guests, respected presidents of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For the 23rd session, I suggest the agenda that you have received with the invitation to this session. The first item of the agenda is 1. Legislative questions and answers, 2. Report by the Joint Commission on efforts to sign the Agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH, 3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Proposal for a law on BiH police officers, second reading, 5. Proposal for a Law on Witness Protection Programme in BiH, first reading, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading, 7. Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, first reading and 9. Proposal for a law to prevent money laundering, first reading, 10. Proposal for a framework law on higher education, first reading. I have to stress here that we were planning to adopt the 8th and 9th points, if we, we make it into both readings. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. This is Mr. Milojević. Here you go, Mr. Molojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2575	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests, I propose that one item of the agenda proposed here today, which is also considered practically parallel now, at Parliament's House of Representatives, be expanded, i.e. with the opening of any point we do not go until it is finished at the 2 House of Representatives. Here I was primarily referring to this request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2576	We'll keep one contact with the House of Representatives. I ask that today, for today's session, as you know, we have scheduled it for deadlines, for urgency, because we intend not to come into the position of the House of Peoples who will have, who will be late for decisions and lead to some disorders in the system. We will hold a link with this home, the House of Representatives has this all on the agenda, but we have scheduled this session today, at this time and here we have moved it for a certain time because of our Constitutional Commission whether and we wanted the House of Peoples, that the House of Representatives who started their session around 10:00 p.m., we expected that by this age to end some laws that we should adopt, but that didn't happen. But we wanted to stick to a key deadline that, you know, that deadline is May 7th that is very important to us because of some of the funds that we could possibly get if we adopted the Law on Higher Education. I think that's what we agreed at the previous session and here, we're carrying out our agreement with the previous session. Thank you, and I think, Goran, that this is fine and that this is quite enough. Thank you very much. The first item of the agenda is, Ad.1. As far as I know, Mr. Šiljević has been given a delegate answer to his question. It would be convenient to hear if Mr. Šiljegović was satisfied with that answer and, as far as I know, there were no other answers. Thank you very much. Mr. Šiljegović, I beg you,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2577	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I received an answer to my questions five minutes ago, and whether I am satisfied with the answer or not, I will give at the next session of the House of Peoples, while comparing questions and answers and I have some legal act to which I have called, so I cannot give an assessment today of the quality of the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2578	Thank you, too. So we remain here, Mr. Šiljegović reserves the right to discuss this answer at the next session that he received for his delegate questions. Mr. Limov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2579	3 Dear gentlemen, the presidents, fellow envoys, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of BiH, honored guests, officials of the international community and representatives of public information funds, welcoming all together the participants of today's session, using the opportunity and the public behind this address, to establish a very indicative fact concerning the inappropriate relationship between the Council of Ministers and other institutions of BiH, according to their obligations to respond to the questions raised by the envoy. In fact, we have witnessed practices in which the envoys in a very small number of cases were fully satisfied with the answers given. Most of the answers to our questions are incomplete, not precise enough and simply not satisfactory and unfortunately uncomprehensible often these answers are not given in the Rules of Procedure by established deadlines, so they were either late or even missing completely. This relationship with the Council of Ministers is extremely unacceptable and it is evident that the appeals we made at the previous meetings to the House of Peoples have not produced fruit. If our home wants to protect its own dignity, it is time to ask a question of responsibility and trust in this Council of Ministers. The issue of responsibility was mentioned at last session by his fellow envoy, Čengić, but apparently not taken seriously as the situation is likely with me today. This is because I personally did not receive an answer to a series of questions within the deadlines set out in Article 121(3). Today I am using my right to make sure that, in accordance with the same article, paragraph 5 and our Rules of Procedure, I ask the College of the People's House to be mandatory in the agenda of the next session of the House of Nations two next points. First, the plan to schedule BiH's headquarters and secondly, the truth about the fate of 46 children, the protégé of home, the Ljubica Ivezić Children's Home from Sarajevo, taken to Italy in 1992. First question, I asked at our 16th session held on December 22, 2003, but I did not get an answer, so I also repeated at our 18th session on February 26, 2004. The second question, I asked at our 20th session held on April 6th of the current year. Since the business deadlines have expired because 15 plus 10 days have passed, and the answers have been lagged behind, I ask the College of the House of Nations to make sure that these issues are demonstrated by the relevant entities, including the presence at the meeting itself of their representatives, so the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the children's home in the Whites, the Mejashi Children's Embassy and the parents of children to whom one of my questions relates. I deliver this request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2580	4 Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Jukić picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2581	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests, journalists, I welcome you all. Here's my question to the Council of Ministers or here I see the Deputy Minister of Security, so here's a question right here in that area. It is known that the U.S. State Department is doing an annual report every year. This report deals with many issues especially from the area of security. Newspaper reports have already surfaced that the assessment of the state of the fight against organised crime and terrorism in BiH is not at the necessary level. Therefore, that the activities of the state bodies and other bodies in charge of this job were not well assessed. I'm curious, I think we're all together, but I am, can we get this document, this part of the document that concerns the assessment of the state of fight against terrorism in BiH? The question is very clear, precise. I expect an answer, if not immediately, then very soon, because actually this is current, should not be longer with the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2582	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Next thing you know, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija has come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2583	Mr. Chairman, co-chaired, fellow delegates, guests from the Council of Ministers, from international institutions, from the media, I have one question I am referring to to the BiH Ministry of Security. According to information sent that day via electronic media, in Stoc, the 1st May was taken off the mast of the Old Town flag that was illegally erected there as a sign. I now cite the qualifications that went along with this, as a sign of a foreign state, parastate formation, one political party or one of the constituent people of BiH. Instead of the flag, a flag of BiH was raised, and those who did so were detained by officials charged with harassing citizens and spreading impatience. The flag of BiH has been removed and a para-state flag has been returned, and this illegal act, according to the above mentioned information, has been increased with the participation of SFOR members. It is not necessary to stress that the dreary dramaticity of information about the first event in Stoc was increased by the fact that the most media-exposed images of the EU flag and celebrations following the official entry into this association of ten new countries were on that day. By broadcasting these images, the Bosnian-Herzegovic media found 5 responsibilities and guilt that BiH is so far from Brisla and normally did so mainly by resorting to generalisations. I ask the BiH Ministry of Security for an official notice on what really happened on May 1st in Stoc and what it did to carry out its obligation to react to events that cause insecurity among citizens. Whether it's real or media-produced events. I deliver the letter in accordance with my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2584	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. Is anyone else answering about these delegate questions? So no one else. Let me close this item on the agenda and move on to the second item of the agenda, Ad2. A joint report called the Joint Commission's Report on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the amendments and additions to the Law on the flag of BiH, the President of the Commission. Mr. Nada Radović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2585	Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to, on behalf of the rapporteur of the Joint Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH both at home, on the achievement of the agreement on the same text on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at its 32nd session, held on 31 March 2004, adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH and adopted in the proposed text without amendments. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at its 20th session, held on 20 April 2004, also adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of BiH, whose proposed BiH Council of Ministers with one amendment. Given that the bill is not adopted in both homes in the same text, the Joint Commission has considered the amendment which is subject to harmonisation and has agreed with the adoption of amendments adopted by the House of Peoples in the text in which we adopted it, that I do not read since this is our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2586	Thank you very much, Mr. Radović. So you all have a report. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report and I am now putting it to the vote and to the adoption of the Reports by the Joint Commission as well. 6 Who is to accept the report, who is for? Thank you very much. We're unanimous. I understand you, hilmo. Third item of the agenda, Add.3. Request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act pursuant to Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Here we had this, a remark from fellow Milojević that it's a little bit wait, let's see what the House of Representatives does, and then let's talk about it. I do, I'll be a little more free this time. I know that the representatives of the Serbian people had an objection, not only to move it from the agenda, but simply one fundamental observation. I'd ask you to come out and speed up the process. Okay, well, we're going to leave this item on the agenda, so we're going to go right to the fourth item of the agenda, please, Ad.4. A proposal for a law on BiH police officers has given you a Joint Commission report. The Commission has adopted ten amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed a law of ten amendments. So the second reading discusses amendments and votes for the law. Here you are, Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendment. Please read those amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2587	The amendments in accordance with the article were submitted by Mr Tomislav Limov and Mr Šiljegović. The amendments are made to the articles of the following series of articles and now the first amendment is Mr Tomislav Lim. Article 2(1) adds a new point 5, which reads - the provisions of this law also apply to administrative police officers whose jobs and tasks and responsibilities are directly linked to the performance of police affairs and tasks which.... That's the first one. They're changing police powers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2588	They're changing police powers, it's Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendment, and do we have a discussion, Mr. Limov, are you staying with your amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2589	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, given the fact that I didn't have the opportunity in a normal, regular procedure to defend my amendments on the committee, I thought I'd get a chance to say something broader about these amendments, but if you're committed to this, I could say that by abandoning so-called. 7 administrative police officers, we are in a position to treat these officers under the State Administration Act. So they won't have adequate benefits. It's a matter of officers without whose work there is no successful work and police activity. It is therefore a crime technique, police expertise or expertise, education, education, police training and professional training. So I think it's necessary to find a way to properly treat these officers, because if it stays like this, we'll have one I'd say negative personnel selection or other words the most capable personnel will practically have no interest in working here. As long as I'm here, I'll also tell you about the amendments to the helicopter unit. I suggested three amendments. The first refers to acting, the second refers to benefits. I'm talking about the salary and the benefits of the job. The third amendment also refers to the rights of flight staff to bear the costs of the licence, i.e. medical examinations. Since the commission has only accepted this third one, and given the fact that leaving out these practically we will not have this unit, as far as I'm concerned, this one, I really see the problem here, and it will be very difficult for us to implement this law on a quality basis, and that is to keep the most capable personnel. Here, I appreciate that there's an explanation in each of the amendments, that it's enough for the MPs to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2590	Thank you very much. Here we have heard Mr. Lim's amendments. Here is Mr. Deputy Minister Mektić, so he will give us some views on behalf of the Council of Ministers and ministries.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2591	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished delegates, I would like to make myself known on behalf of the legislator of this law as proposed by these amendments to Mr Tomislav Lim. In fact, it happened as it happened in the technical procedure that these amendments were not discussed in one way that I would say it now, this, in one established procedure, because they were reportedly not on the committee when they were discussed, when these amendments were discussed where each amendment was also declared by the legislator. That's why I would like to present Mr Limov's proposal on these amendments. I would like to say first of all that this law has been proposed by the Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, and first of all, that this law has been established in one really specific working group, which is specific to the nature and structure of its members, especially when I say that it was the most responsible police officers from all the agencies in BiH who have participated otherwise in the creation of a set of these laws, 8 who need to reform police forces, or structures in BiH. So, from the very state level of SIP representatives of the state border service, this ministry, entity ministries and cantonal ministries. So it was one of the really working groups that was most likely to come up with the most qualitative solutions. When it comes to this amendment, which is wanted in Article 2. add that the provisions of this law apply also to administrative police officers whose jobs and tasks and responsibilities are directly related to the performance of police affairs and tasks, but who do not have police powers, we are as proposing that we should not. So it stands that unnecessary, unnecessary, police powers are given, and therefore all benefits followed by police powers under this law, which significantly increases the costs of implementing this law, because police powers are given to people or employees, workers who will never, in practice, apply police powers at all. It's about lecturers at the Police Academy, or it's about employees who work in crime centres and the police powers and benefits that come from police powers, that's first of all, let me say the powers that can be applied under this law but I don't know how to bring in, determine identity, etc. what they will never, in practice, do, and therefore benefits are received, increased internships, a well-favoured work experience, and pay, etc. and they don't actually do that job that's most directly printed with police powers. They are in a certain way in certain procedures as police officers and police authorities themselves but do not work directly at the enforcement of police powers, therefore they should not be treated in our view as police officers. Thus, we can now set ourselves up and it is debateable whether we only limit to these or extend to others who function as police officers, which keeps important records of administrative etc. at police stations and agencies and all that. Here, I'm thinking that as far as this is concerned, that we should unnecessarily generate costs and therefore unnecessarily increase the total number of police officers and specifically give police powers to a group of employees who are directly with the police but will never, in practice, be able to apply these police powers. I don't know, that's the proposalant's opinion, given this amendment. Now, does there need to be a statement on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2592	No, first we'll all go one by one.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2593	As far as these helicopter units are concerned, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2594	Thank you very much. Here we heard Mr. Mektić withdrawing one in the name of whether, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, he pulled one difference between operative officers and part 9 of the logistics service, I think in those police institutions and we heard what he said on behalf of the promoter. Here I am. Mr. Čengić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2595	I am taking the opportunity to welcome the College of the House, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions and all those present, and to say that I am very glad that in the drafting of this law, they were hired as Mr. Mektić said by the most responsible police officers. So, in other words, people who have a certain experience and who know it. I want to say here that for me Mr. Limov is one of the few people who has an extraordinary police experience and who knows very well what he's talking about and his understanding of this problem is important to me for the next reason. As the highest and highest head of the Ministry of Interior in the entity, he has an excellent insight into how the ministry works and what problems and relationships are about first motivation of people who work, and secondly, more importantly, that quality experts can be obtained in certain jobs. There is no dilemma, that the job of those people who have police powers is important, in some cases and risky to them personally, it is important for the success of their work but it is also clear that in the time in which we live sophistication that we face, the execution of crimes, is what actually makes the police even more effective or less efficient. Of course, it's very important that people who do this job, that people involved in investigations after some events, first of all I think about those who work in crime services must be highly trained, highly qualified professional people who are practically constantly working on their training. They can't be people who used to graduate college, learn something from techniques and settle for it. The techniques are changing, new funds are emerging, and they need to monitor it. How you're going to motivate someone to follow it, how you're going to motivate someone to keep perfecting themselves if he doesn't feel that he's rewarded enough for his work. For this reason, while respecting both sides of these arguments, it is not important for me whether any of these people who are not now seen and to whom Mr Lim's amendment would apply, do they have an unfettered job experience. It's very important to them, but it's not crucial to me. I'd like to be sure before I give my vote for any option, that the people who work today, and who will be working in those places tomorrow, for example. In particular, in the criminal services, they have been awarded financially adequate. So that they have an adequate financial reward, that they are motivated by it. I would once again like to understand, would Mr. Lim's amendment allow them to have a better quality financial reward for their engagement? Therefore, any compensation either in a higher, higher salary or in some additional incomes, etc. So that's what's important to me, or to me, or I want to understand, or I'd like to hear it from the promoter, i.e. The Council of Ministers to tell me what are the motives that people who do this work could be motivated to do, learn, specialize and 10 stay on the job. I'm not saying this by heart. I was in the situation of a man who decided certain things in one of the ministries, when within six months, everything that had an alternative and what knew about the profession came out of the ministry because they got better salaries in other places. And the ministry remained on those who had simply no place to go. Unfortunately, their knowledge, their expertise, their training was far lower than their colleagues who formally had the same titles, who left the ministry because they received a better salary elsewhere. Which is the way, which we intend to keep and attract quality personnel at the Ministry of the Interior, or in the services that deal with these affairs and which do not have the authority of police officers. I would ask you to explain it to us again very precisely so that we can make a decision. My interest is only one, these institutions must have highly professional capable people who will permanently perfect themselves, who will permanently monitor what is going on and who will not pay for 100 marks better in second place, leave this job with their experience of 5,10 or 15 years and leave us at that workplace with someone who will just start. That's what my dilemma is. This is everything after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2596	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2597	You see, by adopting this amendment and putting these employees into police officers, this effect will not be achieved. The question of a possible expert in a police agency is the matter of the Rules of Payments, Rewards, etc. which can be found a way to adequately pay it, but it is essential that if one of the professors at the Police Academy and who performs some kind of other police training, education and give police authority then it means that he determines...... he has the authority to determine the identity of the thing... and the person, conducts conversations, arrests, search for persons and things, temporarily restricts freedom of movement, issue of warnings, orders, temporarily confiscation of objects, has the right to use other people's and communication means, recording in public places, use of physical power, rubber, firearms, processing of data, reviewing records etc. and there is no need for one such type of authorisation to give employees who are performing skills, who are working on education, education, training and vocational training. And the thing is, if we get a good expert, expert experts and hangers, we bring in the only thing to find a way by the pay regulations, pay adequately, well, then that's the only way he's gonna be there, he won't stay. I mean, we've concentrated on this law that police powers remain and are given exclusively under law enforcement agencies, police agencies. And this, we'd be expanding that police powers could practically have no idea who, that I'm not saying everything about police agencies right now, and I think it's unnecessary. If experts are thought to be adequate, to be found and kept in these agencies, they should be paid but there is no police authority. Here it is. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2598	Thank you, Mr. Mektić. Is there anyone else who would like to report for a rickety debate on this amendment? So, I think we've exhausted the discussion here. I will now put to the vote Mr Lim and his colleagues' amendments please make a statement. Who's for Mr. Lim's amendment? Thank you very much. - 5 for, who's abstention? Who's against it? - 1 is restrained, - 8 against. So Mr. Lim's amendment didn't go through. I have this amendment, Mr. Lim's first amendment. Mr Limov also had Amendment II, which says, in Article 10(1) behind such a 5, a new Article 6 comes, please, a new point 6 which reads, a temporary deprivement of freedom. Is there any need to discuss this amendment? Mr. Limov, it's all clear. Mr. Mektić as a Proposer, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2599	I'm really sorry that this is the way we're discussing the amendments right now. We had a far easier one way to discuss within the commission and where we made arguments for and against but here's the procedure to be. I'm afraid that in this amendment, not to be afraid but convinced, we are entering the Law on Police Officers into one matter that has been regulated exclusively by the Code of Criminal Procedure. Watch out, here in article 10. The law on police officers prescribes police powers and are exclusively prescribed by this law. Be careful, the temporary deprivement of freedom, the way in which freedom and conditions can be deprived of freedoms from the prescribed CAP of BiH and it is impossible for the law on police officers to regulate matter prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act. So, I don't think I know, Mr. Limov, that we've had the chance to sit down, to discuss my amendments, but I think that the temporary deprivement of freedom of the institute that has been established exclusively by the Criminal Procedure Act, and here these laws are prescribed by those police powers which are actually necessary for the conduct of police affairs, but are not prescribed by the CAP. And I think, in order to do one thing then, to confuse the CAP and the Law on Police Officers, and then it would definitely have to be dealt with elsewhere, it couldn't have stayed that way regulated and I don't think it's acceptable this amendment. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2600	Thank you, Mr. Mektić. One moment, uh, here's to you since you probably weren't at the last session, I owe you one explanation. Mr Limov was denied the opportunity to discuss his amendments at a committee meeting and we agreed here to give Mr Limov the opportunity not to deny his rights, to give him the opportunity to discuss his amendments at the session, and that is that. So here we think that's good. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2601	Thank you, Mr. President. Uh, by respecting what the distinguished prime minister said, I'm withdrawing this amendment, to simplify things.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2602	Thank you very much. So Mr. Limov respected the position of fellow Mektić here. Now we are on this amendment number III....Station 1 in point 2 behind the word search, point comma is deleted and the words are added – through the eviction of local, central, international. Mr. Mektić,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2603	According to Article 16 paragraph 1 point 2 behind the word - search, add words – by means of an emissary, local, central, international, I know of this situation that you, Mr. Chairman, have said. But I just said it would be a lot easier if we had the chance but here you see. In my opinion, this amendment by means of a BOLO and a BOLO, limits one broader notion of search. When there is a warrant, it may be this, issued by a court for certain persons, may be the internal affairs authority or agencies but there are, it would limit in that sense that police agencies, can bring in certain persons for whom there is one broad indication, but not such a well-founded indication but not such an indication of such force, that a warrant may be issued for it. I don't know if you understand me. So there may be indications established by a police agency but no warrant is called, so there is operational data that the person is involved in certain incriminating actions, i.e. incrimination and internal affairs authorities bring this in, check the founding of such one indication, and then be checked,...incarceration without a warrant or warrant being called. Therefore, I would ask that it remain and leave one broader possibility for law enforcement agencies where there are established indications that they internally intervening an operational search and can bring in such persons. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2604	That's a third.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2605	Two, two of the promoters didn't. But I want to say here if we don't accept the amendment, why don't we really accept the arguments that it's not that we don't, because of this, or because of what we're not going to do, these are arguments based on which we don't think we should accept it, and I think that would narrow the possibility of police agencies around this, bringing a person in for a certain...
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2606	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Mektić. I don't know if there's a need, Mr. Limov. Mr. Limov will not give up, then I am obliged to put Mr. Lim's amendment, Amendment III, to Mr. Limov's vote. You heard the sound of it. There's no need to read it again. Who's in favour of adopting Mr. Lim's amendment? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Who's against it? So they were what, so 4 for, - 3 abstentions, - 8 against. We find Mr. Lim's amendment didn't get most of it, so it didn't go through. We have amendment IV from Mr Tomislav Lim, which reads, in Article 16 paragraph 1 behind point 2 comes a new point 3 which reads – if it contains items of importance for proving the crime, and which this person can destroy or hide, so that would be Amendment number IV. I'm asking the promoter, Mr. Mektić. Sorry about that, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2607	I don't mind if I'm not bored with you. Okay, thank you. You see, in our proposal, when it comes to this amendment, it's practically the same case as in this second amendment about the temporary deprivement of freedom where we wanted to put it as an authorisation. You see, just as it was regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, the deprivement of freedom of the Criminal Procedure Act is also regulated by the temporary confiscation of things prescribed. Whether a police officer at that time and in what way will take away a particular item, which can serve to prove a crime, is prescribed by the CAP and would again come into the situation practically to have the same matter partially standardized by the CAP and the Law on Police Officers. It is normal for the CAP to come, as I would say a stronger law, if I may say so, that it does not derogate this law in a certain way, but it is one matter that is prescribed in one proof sense, what something can serve as an object that will serve as evidence or not, in relation to this law. 14 I think that the regulation of this matter is the same as the temporary deprivement of freedom by the Criminal Procedure Act and that this matter should not be located and covered by this Law on Police Officers, therefore the Proposer considers that it is not acceptable for him to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2608	Here's Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2609	It is quite logical that the proposal will insist on its solutions. I have to say that after the session, I had conversations in the OHR about this, and this is one of those amendments that we agreed to stay with him. It is therefore that, without a written order from the relevant authority, a police officer may bring a person into the official premises of the police body, so cases are listed, and if there are cases of significance for proving a criminal offence, which this person may destroy or hide, so we give authority to a police officer without a written order and there is no such thing in the CAP. So, a police officer based on this, can bring that person in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2610	Thank you, Mr. Limov. We heard and we heard this pro and opposite, come on, is there anyone else who would like to talk about this? Here's Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2611	Your Honor, I think this is where we really need to establish, we have two claims, that this is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act, and that this is not regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act, in front of our exposure, I really don't know what it is in the Criminal Procedure Act and what in cases where a person is subject to the importance of proving a criminal offence and which this person can destroy or hide, whether it is prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act or not. I really appreciate and appreciate this effort by the minister who has indeed made a huge contribution to the commission that this law is understood in quality form and this commitment at today's session to explain to us, and therefore I would ask that this matter be clarified, even before our statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2612	What, clearly, you intend to explain to us. Okay, thank you. Well, here's a flock I appreciate, a moment, but Mr. Genjac had an attitude that we are, Mr. Mektić, I beg you to be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2613	If I may just have two sentences to give. Article 64. The CAP prescribes the exact way in which the temporary confiscation of the case is carried out. And it's there that police officers 15 can confiscate temporary cases with a warrant and no prosecutor's orders. We can't, nor do I need to explicitly state here that the person will be detained without a warrant in any case when he has the cases. It's a police officer's matter, it can take it away from him in his house during the search, it can take it away from him at work and issue him in accordance with the CAP's confirmation of the temporary confiscation of the case, and I don't think there's any need for him to stand explicitly indicated here that in case there are cases that will temporarily be brought into custody, there was a possibility of abuse and when it is necessary and when the law does not need it, he considered the matter of confiscation as much as he felt necessary to process the confiscation of the case from a person.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2614	Thank you very much, Mr. Mektić. Here I am, since we've exhausted the discussion, I'll put Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendment number IV to the vote. Who's for the amendment of Tomislav Lim? So – 4 Who's abstentioned? - 2 Who's against it? - 8 So 4 are for, 2 abstentions, 8 against. Thank you very much. Amendment number V of Mr Tomislav Lim. In Article 27 which reads, Article 27, paragraph 2 behind the word stopping comes a flow – a person and the further text remains the same. There's probably a technical error here. I ask Mr. Mektić if these two words change this law,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2615	Now, here it stands unless otherwise specified by this law means writing such physical powers as martial arts, bats, binding tools and a vehicle stop device, and then there should be a person here. I mean acceptable, we can accept but I don't see that there's a device to force the vehicle and the person. I mean, no, they don't have vehicles to force a stop, they're this one, but here's the logic that every one of these powers has to stop that person.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2616	Thank you very much, Mr. Mektić. I'm putting Mr. Lim's amendments to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. So the brkati is for, 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. So Amendment number V Mr Tomislav Lim has been adopted. Mr. Limov, 16
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2617	I am giving up this amendment, therefore, on this next sixth, regarding the European Police, since the mandate of the European AIPTF police is not the same,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2618	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Let's move on, so we'll talk immediately about Mr Limov's amendment VII because this amendment VI has failed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2619	The amendment was adopted by the Defence and Security Commission, thus it became an integral part of the text, there is no need to hold a debate on it. The following is the eighth amendment, related to the rank of members of the Helicopter Unit, everything here is clear. I don't think I should be special.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2620	Thank you very much. I'd like to hear this seventh amendment, what's the matter, what do you say? So he's in... he's already settled in the law whether it's through another amendment. Please let me, through some other amendment, he's found a place. So your idea found a place in the law in a legal solution. The eighth amendment, Mr. Limov? He's staying. It's Mr. Limov on the eighth amendment. That's this one, he's talking about helicopter units, acting sorry. I'd like to hear from you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2621	If you would just let me say one sentence on this amendment number VII in Article 55, paragraph 1, as far as I understand Mr Limov, I don't know if I am the management that has adopted one part of this amendment of yours, which stands and these selected candidates are attending basic training as cadets in police academys and I think it's in that... yes, then fine. Eh, now, if I can say, as regards Amendment No. 8 or all of these amendments, which concerns, in a certain way, a helicopter unit, or helicopter units, so that I don't have to go back, we've been discussing in another commission phase, here's Mr. Spasojević and Šiljegović, who were on this proposal, because it's similar to or the same proposal and Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal, and then we've figured out this commission, that there's no need to formulate either a helicopter unit or any provisions related to a helicopter unit, but to be a matter of internal organisation and the needs of the agencies themselves, so we said if the SIP has a support unit, then the one within that unit will have members of the police, who will be trained in special dangerous arrests and crisis situations, let's say the situation, so we'll have a unit of 17 that we'll be able to address the plane and the situation. Also, if she assesses the need for a diving unit, she will form a unit of 15 people as a diving unit, prepare it as a diving unit, and she will do these jobs. If she needs a unit, which is going to be mountainous, I don't even know about the problem of the police, then she's going to form, and then we said, within the framework of that commission, that it's going to be a matter of the internal organization and the Agency itself, which, within its own agency, will be established within the framework of that agency, that we don't set out specifically helicopters now, and some other perhaps, which will also be needed, surely there will be a need, not to mention in this law. In total, for all these amendments concerning helicopter units and related to a helicopter unit, they are not acceptable for these arguments and the reasons I'm talking about now, because they were the subject of discussion on the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2622	Thank you, Mr. Mektić. We heard Mr. Mektić's explanations. Here, Mr. Limov, is there a need and we can hear you?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2623	Well, it's quite a clear motive, I appreciate the need to be specifically regulated due to the specific conditions of action of this unit. However, bearing in mind that the esteemed deputy minister has said that all these amendments should be practically rejected, and since one of them has passed, I do not know what his position on the one that has passed is, and it concerns these medical examinations. The Commission accepted that part of the helicopter unit.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2624	What's that?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2625	This is an amendment to my 11th Article 93e), therefore it did not pass, which relates to the extension of the aviation licence.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2626	Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2627	I'm really sorry, and I wouldn't want to cause any trouble. I respect this, therefore, principled approach or rather the logic to which it is approached. If there's one, the other and the third units, someone in charge will decide to form. 18 I would, however, warn that there is one, not exactly a banal difference between the mountain rescue service, between divers, between the team that should be trained to fight hostage holding, etc. And between the helicopter unit. The difference is extremely large. And first of all, she's in what that story costs. Because to get a helicopter, train a pilot, maintain his ability and condition, etc. It's something that's incomparably more expensive than all this other stuff. I'm not saying it's more important, but it's incomparably more expensive. So absolutely one helicopter is more expensive than I know which other services with all her equipment, especially if it's still a unit. On the other hand, a kind of incentive, i.e. One kind of interest and binding of people who would be engaged in a helicopter unit is certainly necessary. Which are the solutions that allow it, I don't know, but I think there's a significant difference in that part between the members of the helicopter unit and any of these other units. So, from, it's not a classic course, it's a training course, so then holding up training, then publishing a license, so condition, so condition, etc. These are all additional elements that are very important, very serious, and I think it would be good to see if these amendments to Mr. Lim's solution, which can incentivise better, more efficient work and the functioning of a helicopter unit, and I think we agree in one. I'm sure these departments need a helicopter unit. So it certainly is now and in the future, especially. So I would ask Mr Limov to give us his reasons and motives that he's led once more, and why he thinks his amendments solve what the proposed text of the law doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2628	Thank you very much. Mr. Limov has hurried to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2629	I didn't hurry, but in the meantime I consulted the report, which, to the soul, was not signed by Mr. Spasojević, and it says his name and here the fifth Amanda that they accepted clearly says that what I said is true. So my reasons are that I'm sure if I don't give appropriate benefits to the people of the helicopter unit, we won't have that unit. My proposal is clear that they appear and that on the basis of the acts they receive certain benefits. Beneficies consist of 55% of the salary increase in other attractive officials, which is standard and year-and-a-half days of work. That's the essence of these amendments, based on that, if you give someone, if you don't treat them like this law and you don't give them proper benefits, so we won't have people, so that's motive. Here, Mr. Spasojević, I would ask you not to have a dilemma here, to ease it, I asked Mr. Mektić, I have a report here, and here it is to you, therefore, that, however, we clear this up. As far as I'm concerned, if this isn't going before, I don't mind, here's a commission to plead, give up on this. No problem. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2630	Thank you very much. We're not giving up. We vote. And you're giving up. Gospodion Spasojević, is that a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2631	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I would like to say that as far as this helicopter unit is concerned, on which we discussed on the joint committee, which we had and we had a general view that, when we refused one first amendment, which concerned the helicopter unit, we automatically refused all other amendments afterwards without debate. Whether this amendment has been made by mistake or otherwise, it is not, so there has been a concrete direct debate about it. My opinion, as far as this is concerned, of everything we're talking about the helicopter unit is, like this. We, we are, indeed, a small country to have specialized units for all kinds and diving and helicopter and paratroopers and this and that, we, my opinion that it would be more correct to develop within this service a versatile loop of cops who will know they're driving and a helicopter and they're doing everything. It's a real cop, like we looked at. It's a real cop who can drive a helicopter, can drive a car, can drive a tank, can drive anything. It's a real cop, a versatile cop, and not that we have all these services that we're proposing and we're just hoarding them up and giving them certain benefits, whether we can pay them off, maybe in a year we should use that unit, we're holding it, and we don't have one, so it's a regular cop who has his rank, so he's got all his own, who's going to serve for the purpose of that. In addition, when carrying out this task, I have more security in a regular policeman than the one hired as a police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2632	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Milojević and gentlemen, am obliged here to tell you all, I am obliged to say that this amendment in the House of Representatives has passed and that it is an integral part of the law. That's where it stands. So, this confusion that occurred, it was created as it was created, and we said that the House of Representatives adopted ten amendments and one of those ten amendments was this, and that's according to the report of this Commission Amendment number v.. We did little of the bullets. Here you go, Mr. Limov. He became an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2633	Okay, Mr. Pamuk confirmed what I was saying, because I have that report in my hands. The commission's report's over. I don't need to convince you that the intention was to solve some of the issues in a more quality way. I hope that the law as it is will be the basis and start of a reform of police structures in BiH and I will facilitate the situation by giving up all other amendments. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2634	I am now in office of the chairman to thank Mr. Limov and to say that we have exhausted Mr. Lim's adjectives and we have now amendments, Mr. Šiljegović's amendment. I would like to ask Mr. Šiljegović. For this reason, Amendment I in Article 124, paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "Extremely from Article 59 of this Law for the first appointment of a manager and as deputy head of police authority candidates for those positions do not have to meet the requirements of three years of work in the rank of chief inspector." I beg you, Mr. Mektić, help us here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2635	Here, I'll be very happy to try to explain to you as briefly as possible, i.e. how there actually was one mistake here, and I can say that, here's the burden and the proposer, who at that point agreed and I say, well, that's the mistake and the proposer. In fact, here in Article 124 stands out exclusively from the Article 59 of this Law for the first appointment of a leader and deputy head of the police authority, candidates for those positions do not hate to meet the three-year conditions, the bio-amendment does not have to meet the conditions laid down in Article 59 of this Law. And, in Article 59 of this law, it says that it takes three years and that the need for a high-level expert prepares and we return that, if this amendment had been adopted, if it hadn't been fixed now, it would have been practically possible for the Director of the Police Agency to compete independently on any school preparation. And that's not normal, because the condition is highly professional prepared and just to implement this amendment, it will take this commission to come into shape on text alignment, since this is adopted in both readings in the House of Representatives, that's the problem, but here I'm saying it missed the good part and by the error of the promoter, but it's a totally illogical norm that without any conditions you can apply practically to the Director of the Police Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2636	This signifies that we accept Sijegovic's amendment. Thank you very much. Boško, since the amendment you suggested was accepted, I don't think there's any need to explain. I put Mr. Šiljegović's amendments to the vote. Who's to accept the amendment? Thank you very much. Anybody got any abstentions? Mr Filipović, I didn't see you vote. Thank you very much. So 13 for, 2 abstentions and no one's against it. I think we've exhausted the amendments and this time, we should now vote on the law on BiH police officers and adopt it in a second reading. 21 Who is it to pass the law? Thank you very much, colleagues. We simply passed the law and I, Mr. Mektić, congratulate you and the Council of Ministers. In view of the fact that this law has been adopted in various texts in two homes, I suggest we order a commission, which will bring the text of this law into line and I ask the presidents of the clubs to propose to each of their people a candidate, and the opposite may be possible. Here you go, sir. So, on behalf of the Bosniak people, Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija suggested Mr. Halid Genjac. So, in front of the Serb people is Boško Šiljegović. Mr Ante Spajić is proposed in front of the Croatian people. Do we agree? Thank you very much. So, gentlemen, you have our trust. We don't touch your vote, Mr. Spajić. Ad.5. Proposal for a law on witness protection programme in BiH, first reading This is the first reading of the law under Article 90. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. There is a debate on the necessity and ways in which the law is founded. The House of Representatives was held at the 34th session held on 23.04. passed the law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any debates. Who's to conduct a debate on members of the law? Who's for first reading? So we passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. So there was no amendment to the text of this law. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one's answering for a word. Let's go vote. Who is it to adopt the law on witness protection in BiH, so also in second reading? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. So the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading Do we have a debate? This is the first reading by article 99. We're here, I think we discussed, so this is the first reading. You've received a report from the committee responsible. Here you go. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. Article 90. Who is it to adopt the law in the first reading? Thank you very much. So the law was adopted in the first reading. My suggestion is to pass this law in a second reading. 22 Since it was adopted at the House of Representatives in both readings, there is no need, since there was no amendment, there is no need to keep things half-way. I think we have to take it. There was no amendment. Is anyone picking up the phone? So no one's answering for a word. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in a second reading. Who's to pass the law? Thank you very much. The law was unanimously adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.7. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure, first reading This is the first reading of the law. You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. So, at the 34th session, the House of Representatives adopted this law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I suggest we adopt this law in our first reading. Who's in? Thank you very much. Unanimity. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. There was no amendment to this law to the text of this law. Therefore, since there are no amendments, this means that MPs have accepted the text and agree with the text, so I am putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal proceedings in the second reading. Who is it to pass this law? Unanimity. Thank you very much. We adopted the same text as the House of Representatives. My colleague Jukić suggests we take a break. I have an ambition to listen to him at this point. We'll take a break for an hour, that's quite enough for us to wait for the results and this home to see what our colleagues have adopted. I have to make sure you eat. ...gathered the energy and we move on. [[PAUZA]] It's time for the 8th item of our agenda. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on State Agency for Research and Protection, first reading This is the first reading. The House of Representatives passed this law in its first reading. I hope they adopt it at today's session and in the second reading, and here I am opening up raps and is anyone answering for a word? I don't see anyone answering. I'm now in a position to suggest that we plead. 23 Who is the first reading for the adoption of the law on the State Agency for Research and Protection? Who's in? So we unanimously adopted this. hasane, are you up for this? Thank you. I suggest we do some raps. So we're going to agree to keep going, yeah, so we have this point 3 and we have a point under 8 below 8 not finished and we're going back to them when we get the information that's done by the House of Representatives. Ad.9. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering, first reading also, and this law was adopted by the House of Representatives in the first reading and they have today in the second reading of this law, so I suggest we open a debate on the law in the first reading. As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a word. Who is it to adopt the bill on preventing money laundering in the first reading? Thank you very much. Unanimity. And here's the same case. So let's go here, I suggest. This is the same thing. There's nothing to change here. There won't be any amendments here. There was no amendment. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. In the second reading, there is a debate on the law. The new amendments weren't... and be careful, uh, I think that we, uh, some of these principles respected about exceptions, normally can be simple for reasons to confirm principles. I suggest, I open a debate on this law on the prevention of money in the second reading. Is there anyone to answer for? There was no amendment. There's no one here. I'm putting the bill to a vote and I suggest, uh, I put the law on the vote on the prevention of money laundering in the second reading. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Thank you very much. So unanimous. Thank you very much. It's the tenth item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a framework law on higher education This is the first reading. You've received the law as well as the report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted seven amendments that became an integral part of the text. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. I'm opening a debate, and who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2637	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished fellow envoys, esteemed guests, when the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Framework Law on Fundamental 24 and Middle Education in mid-year, I personally got the impression that it was created good... for a reform in the segment of education and that the adoption of the Law on Higher Education would be a new proof of the real reform commitment of the current ruling parliamentary majority. Problems in the implementation of the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education which these days comes to terms, especially in certain cantons in the Federation of BiH, clearly confirm the fact that it is much easier to pass the law than to implement it if there is no political, will and quality of each law is practically confirmed only if it is implemented in reality. Of course, the outcome of the reform processes is influenced by honesty in fulfillment. and prove the political will, willingness, knowledge and power of the contractor and the building of the relevant institutions. Personally, I believe that most of the problems in BiH are solved if there is real, not just a declarative political will, above all, in the parties that make up the parliamentary majority. After we have passed laws which are the basis for implementing reforms in the field of primary and secondary education, customs, taxes, intelligence and defence, today the Higher Education Act is before us. From the current course of activities in preparation and work on this law, it is evident that there is no agreement between the ruling parties on the solution. It is white that this law has conceptually deviated from the commitment to strengthen the central institutions of the BiH state through reforms, which, in my deep conviction, loses the guarantee that a single system of higher education will be built, which implies the representation of European criteria and standards. The insinuation of the system of higher education at the level of the entity and Brcko District is far from our interests and represents this self-convinced anacronism in relation to solutions in other areas where we have passed laws so far. For me, the entity is not a state, as it is neither a canton nor a district. I will remind you, for example, that the International Pact on Economic Social and Cultural Rights determines that the state recognises every person's right to education. So in our case, the BiH state, not the Federation, Republika Srpska, cantons or districts, guarantees all persons on BiH territory the right to education as one of the fundamental human rights. In addition, in Article 2(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms clearly states that the State is guaranteed the right to education. This is also the case in Article 2(3) of the Constitution of the BiH State. How BiH will truly be guaranteed the right to education if it does not have an appropriate institution at the state level. To miss the chance to establish these institutions at BiH level by this law, it is unacceptable for me and represents in a certain way a derogation, a deviation from the reform commitment in which everyone swears. That's what the gentlemen say, dear, that you from the ruling parties don't want, you don't have the strength or you don't know how to reach a consensus on key issues in the Higher Education Act. It's impossible to hide the mistrust that exists between you. It is understood, then, that we, who think differently and who belong to other parties, cannot trust you who are the most responsible for implementing the reform processes. Of course, I know that you don't trust me either, but I would like to stress this on this occasion, especially because I will present my 25 views on the solution to the proposed law as a member of the Social Democratic Watch and as a member of the Croatian people. For me, as a man who is a person by vocality, an educational worker, the right to education, to use language, to cultivate culture and tradition are essential components of national identity. I don't have any dilemmas here. These are categories of vital national interest. With my four amendments, I have proposed practically two things and that they are, and unfortunately, at the commission stage they are not accepted, I would be pleased to vote for the adoption of this law as I did and in all cases when we passed laws that had a reform character, therefore in all other areas. The two things, firstly, are that in the certification of higher education institutions, consent to the statutes gives the relevant body of the BiH state and secondly, that the funding of higher education is carried out through a fund that is justified by the relevant body of the BiH state. What do you get by accepting these solutions? First, it is a guarantee that the constitutional solutions will be standardised and harmonised with European educational criteria, and secondly, that high education in our country will be financed transparently, rationally, efficiently, uniformly and standardised in the overall BiH area. The higher education funding system, which is my position, should be based on the BiH institutions' budget because it is a guarantee of rational financial support for higher education institutions, research activities, promotion, restructuring of higher education, promoting innovation and modernising programmes and studies in accordance with this law, international conventions and obligations aimed at equating standards and criteria that all higher education institutions in BiH must meet. I really don't understand who it is and why it is against the certification of higher education institutions being carried out by the relevant state body of BiH and why no solution for financing is accepted at BiH level. The arguments I have heard on the commission today are not enough for me because there is an analogy in other areas where we have also not had original revenues in the budget itself, but we have found a way to form, for example, a Return Fund at the state level and I see no reason why for such an important area as higher education, we do not make an effort to guarantee appropriate standards in this way, and if you want the uniformity and quality of the financing of higher education itself. I am convinced that these two things that I have proposed to my amendments are of interest to everyone. Of course, unfortunately in the Commission's debate itself, I realized that the fate of these amendments will probably be such that they will not be accepted and let me understand whoever they want, I will openly say that for me this Framework Law is not the basis for reform for the simple reason that instead of raising high education to the level of state, the state of existence of three higher education systems, i.e. two systems in entities and one in Brcko District. 26 Unlike colleagues from other parties, above all from HDZ colleagues who represent the view that higher education should be at canton level, I only advocate that I consider it correct, that higher education should be at the state level, at the level of the BiH state. The real reform of higher education is the need and interest of current and future students, educational workers, state bodies and the Bosnian-Herzegovina society as a whole. I am, not surprised but truly concerned, by the hard stance of colleagues from the Bosniak and Serb nations shown at the very session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as in this sense by the international community, in whose labs this law has arisen, and which comes down to the fact that what is written in the initial text is a sacred letter and that it cannot be changed. Only symbolic changes can be accepted, which questions for me the purpose of the parliamentary debate itself on this law. By building a single higher education system, it is possible for the BiH state to agree its solutions with the 1999 Bologna Declaration because our country is obliged to do so, since in September 2003, at a ministerial meeting in Berlin, it was admitted to the so-called "Such". The Bologna process. But like the state, we can only fulfil our obligation under the Lisbon Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications. I am fully aware of the importance of adopting this law because this means firstly, fulfilling the promise given to the Peace Implementation Council, secondly, the implementation of part of the Anti-Poverty Strategy and thirdly, the achievement of the preconditions for obtaining loans to finance higher education reform in BiH. Emphasizing the respected colleagues that the adoption of this law means the right to 42 million credits, in a certain sense challenges the effect and doubts that an offer for a kind of trade is hidden behind it. If it's my national interest or any other nation, I wouldn't sell that interest for any money, and neither of us has a mandate for that. In conclusion, the standards of the Bologna Process and the Lisbon Convention are not at all controversial because these standards do not suppress the national identity of any of us, regardless of which people we belong. These standards right now support the right to use all language and learn about their own culture but also to mean openness to respect the language, identity and culture of others. In this law, at least as I see things, there are no adequate mechanisms for protecting the right to ensure these standards in higher education in BiH. And that's what's controversial. So I want us to pass a quality law that will drive away the fear of majorisation that is certainly possible and the practice tells us on an entity level. Of course, if there is no understanding of such attitudes, proposals and commitment, there is nothing left but the use of protection mechanisms under the BiH Constitution. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2638	We heard Mr. Limov. Here is Minister of the Council of Ministers Professor Dr Halilović. I'm asking him to come out for a pay phone and tell us a few words about this law. Here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2639	The Honorable House Chairman, honourable MPs, of course, I will not speak to the political dictionary, as I just had the opportunity to listen to, something like this, stands up for the good, but it's not this, it needs something else. I think it's a contradiction, but this one, so I don't, uh, qualify things, I'm gonna talk directly about the law. What he really means and forgive me if I'm a little more detailed, this one, because it takes the intensity the law carries on its own to define. Therefore, the adoption of the BiH Framework Law on Higher Education is one of the promises made to the Peace Implementation Council in BiH in 2002. The reform in the area of higher education is also necessary in order to bring the higher education in line with the Joint Declaration by the European Minister of Education of the 99th more famously known as the Bologna Declaration. It should be noted that Bosnia and Herzegovina was admitted at a ministerial meeting in Berlin in September 2003, along with Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania, to the Bologna process of establishing a European higher education area, requiring the introduction of established principles in the area. Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications relating to Higher Education in the European region, so-called The Lisbon Convention of 11 April 1997 and with this law carry out obligations undertaken by the adoption of this Convention. The adoption of the law conditioned the World Bank's loan of $42m, of which $12m under the education reconstruction project. The requirements for the law to be passed by 7 May 2004 at the latest and not to adopt this law mean that Bosnia and Herzegovina lost a very favourable one and that credit reserved for countries came out of conflict. This is also the last of these loans for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The basic principles on which the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina is based are contained in international documents that have adopted and signed Bosnia and Herzegovina and not to be listed here by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, the '88 Council of Europe Convention, the Joint Declaration on Harmonisation, etc. It can therefore be concluded that the Framework Law also includes basic principles in the area of higher education that have been established or established in the European area of higher education. Starting with the universal principles of non-discrimination and the right to education, the Law regulates the principles of university autonomy, integrated university, student mobility and other academic staff, the establishment of a national information centre and others. 28 In addition to the principles of organisation of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected representatives of the framework law also establish the responsibility of the authorities in this area, the law enforcement authorities and international obligations, as defined in Article 3, are set out exactly what meanings are set in those laws. It is important to note that Article 5 determines that higher education means education leading to the first cycle, b) acquired the second cycle and (c) degree of the third cycle, that I do not explain here what is in the laws. In this way, in the area of higher education, a principle is introduced which is set for the European space of higher education and means the acceptance of a system based on two main cycles to graduate and postgraduate. The degree of graduation is based on at least three years of study and is considered to be the necessary level of qualification on the European labour market. The postgraduate degree leads to the master’s degree of doctorate. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides that no one can be deprived of the right to education, and it can be said that it is Article 6. Law, Law in accordance with the provisions of Article 14. European Conventions. Access to higher education is possible after finishing high school for at least 4 years. Higher education institutions are universities and colleges or high schools. And in Article 9. The law is given the definition of university and college, or high school. Higher education can deal with any licensed higher education institution so that the Law can prescribe tuition and other fees incurred by students. Institutional autonomy and legal subjectivity of higher education institutions Article 13 to 20 determines that legal entity holders are only universities and colleges. A transitional period has been foreseen by 2006 when only universities will have full legal subjectivity. The institution of formal responsibility within the university is the board of directors of the university whose composition is established by the university's statutes. Higher education institutions enjoy freedom in teaching and scientific research without interference from authorities. Higher education facilities are inconclusive so that without the approval of university or college directors, police and other military authorities do not have access to university and college. A special status given to higher education institutions is subject to the obligation that each higher education institution performs its functions in a way that shows responsibility in the state, citizens, staff and students. The rights and obligations of academic staff determine that academic staff enjoys freedom within the law, determines the right to publish research results, regulates the issue of hiring academic staff at higher education institutions, etc. They have regulated the rights of students not to reproduce them here and to ask the question of how the responsibility of the competent state authorities for the implementation of this law is foreseen. Namely, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for implementing the Framework Law on Higher Education, Coordination and Development of Higher Education, 29 promotions, student mobility, promotion of links between higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and higher education institutions in the world and others. The competent entity shall be responsible for the adoption of decisions on licensing, accreditation of a higher education institution on the basis of specific criteria and recommendations of the Council for the financing of higher education of CIPOK's rejection and the subsequent consent to the statutes of the higher education institution, the setting of minimum tuitions, etc. The High Education Finance Council is educated by a special decision by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a parity basis. The Council shall consist of nine members. The Higher Education Finance Council is, in fact, a state-level body that balances the criteria concerning the financing of higher education, making recommendations on minimum scholarships, defining criteria for the formation, merger and closure of higher education institutions. Higher education funds are established in entities. The entity's law lays down the way in which the fund's administrative and management structure of the fund is established, as well as other necessary conditions for working and decision-making. The Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European region, established by the establishment of a Committee of the Convention of the National Standard Centre for Control and Promotion and Facilitation of the Implementation of the Convention, must also be funded by the State under the Convention. Although it is an independent administrative arrangement due to the specificity of the obligations imposed before the CIPOK, this law has been established that the Council of Ministers has appointed a committee to manage the CIPOK. It's also on parity basis. The CIPOK is responsible for the format and general content of the diploma as well as for the addition of a diploma which issues accreditation of a higher education institution, including a description of the higher education system, establishes and publishes standards setting minimum standards for academic staff, facilities, equipment, library. Through the international network of ENIK Information Centres, the NARIK network provides information and recommendations on higher education institutions related to foreign higher education institutions and programmes to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the international network of centres, etc. Because it's important for the recognition of diploma. On accreditation and licensing of higher education institutions, the competent entity shall decide on the basis of the conditions and recommendations set out by the CIPK Board. All high-level institutions in Bosnia and Heregovina may apply for credit to the competent entity in accordance with this law. This is important, existing universities, because there was speculation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time of the entry into force of this law will be considered accredited and must apply for an accreditation review within 4 years of the date of entry into force of this law. Periodic review and evaluation of the quality of teaching subjects and programmes of accredited higher education institutions shall be carried out under the supervision of the CIPOK. An accredited higher education institution has been authorised to grant academic degrees and diplomas listed in its credentials on accreditation. The competent state authorities and 30 other BiH authorities and organisations will recognise only those academic degrees and diplomas issued by accredited higher education institutions for employment or public functions. The degrees and diplomas of current university graduates, i.e. higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the former SRYgoslavia, are considered recognised in this regard. The final provisions set out that the CIPOK recommendation will provide for the duration of the first cycle and transitional provisions for the period 2004 to 2010. All entity and other relevant regulations will be in line with the provisions of this law no later than 6 months after its entry into force with the exception of provisions relating to the structure of the academic programmes, degrees and accumulation and transfer of credit points subject to the transitional period. The provisions of this law, which require the granting of powers for a certain function in the higher education of entities, will be applied when legal conditions are created for those allocations. Let me look very briefly at the requirements highlighted in the amendment procedure. A requirement to regulate higher education only at national level, e.g. It was one of the thesis and demands. Oh, personally, I don't mind if there's an agreement and if all the necessary assumptions are solved at the state level, but it's not possible to address the issue of higher education only at the state level without offering a solution to the financing of higher education at the state level. Therefore, amendments requiring the regulation of higher education only at the state level did not offer at the same time ways in which higher education would be financed. I'd like to remind you of the very negative experiences we had last year when the uniting demining service was at the state level, and at the same time the funding issue was not resolved. We were in a blockade from which we were getting out of the loan from the donor board. It was about the amount of 3 million KM alone. High maintenance costs 8 million KM and cannot improvise funding. On the other hand, leaving funding and regulation of higher education at the cantonal level does not allow for real reform of higher education and compliance with the World Bank's conditions and has explicitly said that it is the lowest level of financing of entities. It must be pointed out that there were also proposals for minimum regulation of higher education at the state level, and when it is looked at what is being established and what is regulated at the state level cannot be fully unsatisfactory. It's a very difficult compromise. He's been doing this law for over a year. It was attended by representatives of all cantons, all universities and universities and bridge universities, representatives of all entity education ministries as well as representatives of the international community, and this law was thus established several months ago in Strasbourg along with the international community. So this law is a big step, in our opinion forward for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for over 100,000 students, for the academic community and represents a possible compromise as I said. Dear MPs, let me finally point out that the establishment of a European higher education space will go its own way, regardless of whether 31 Bosnia and Herzegovina participated. We are late and we are on the verge of many progressive processes in education. The adoption of the law will benefit most precisely generations now studying and, of course, future generations. Europe and the world do not insist on the same path in the field of education for all countries. But she's established principles for everyone. It is up to you, gentlemen, to allow our universities, our higher education to have a chance in the unique space of higher education that is just being created. The Bologne processes in Europe are half the transition period and the results will be summed up next year. We may be, if you adopt this law at the beginning of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2640	Thank you very much, Mr. Halilović. Here's a comprehensive statement about this law, so I'm asking my colleagues to report for the word and if there's any ambition to discuss this law. Here you go. We had a legislative commission, didn't we? Can we get a report?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2641	Gentlemen, the chairman, gentlemen ministers, the other fellow MPs and all those present who follow the gentlemen from the international community who support the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and assist in this project of adopting the Proposal for a Framework Law on High Education of BiH. Today we had a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we discussed this law today as a competent committee. So we've also discussed amendments to this law. A total of 58 articles of the proposal for a framework law totalled 60 amendments. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is most of its votes, without the will of the Hrvat representatives, as well as in the current procedure since the Council of Ministers proposed this law, where there was also no Hrvat will, because without Hrvat it was put in the process. I want to emphasize that, and everyone knows it here in the House, but because of those who listen to us, so from the offices to today, so she didn't hear or respect herself, she wouldn't listen and listen to the word of a constituent people. This is the House of Peoples, which is why I speak like this. So, a total of 60 amendments, the esteemed counterpart of Lim, the fourth amendment, the esteemed colleague of the Brk eleven amendments, the esteemed colleague of the Zrn 20 amendments, my twenty amendments and my esteemed fellow Genjac five amendments. Of these seven amendments, seven amendments have been accepted, and five amendments have been respected by fellow Genjac who have been accepted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission in order to be accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House and on the Constitutional-Legal Commission of this House, approximately identical that we do not have too much work to do on its consent. So, this is about the Commission's work which therefore accepted 7 total amendments of the 60 that you received in the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. 32 And since I have come forward to report on what the Constitutional and Legal Committee has been doing, and since we are discussing the first reading of the principles of this law, allow me when I am here to say several of my observations.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2642	It shall be on behalf of the Commission or of the personal ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2643	Personally as a representative. I have closely followed the respected minister who has practically convinced us here the content of the law that we have, I believe, as serious parliamentarians, very seriously read through a complete parliamentary procedure that is going on and here until the first reading at the House session. For the Hrvat sitting in this home, so I'm pulling it away is not controversial, that we are happy to implement a reform of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is beyond all the priorities, it seems to me that when it comes to education and we all accept it, we support and support it, but in one way that is accepted, acceptable to the Hrvat sitting in this house and sitting in other bodies and institutions that have participated from the first articles and work on the proposal of this act until this proposal is determined and put into parliamentary procedure. We cannot say here clearly and loudly that what the Bologna Declaration or the Lisbon Convention predicts, so what the standards of modern Europe are, we do not want to have here for our children. Well, that's not a question. It's the least controversial for Hrvat sitting in this house. We appreciate, respect and are not blind, we also see the overall strong efforts that the international community has to help us reach reformed higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We feel it's necessary, we feel it's something that's supposed to happen, but here it's flowing, it's going on. And we would be very happy if, in that desire in that intention, we would come to a modern higher education like Europe, which we all strive to participate in the same way together and contribute to obtaining a quality legal project. So that's something unquestionable for the Hrvat sitting in this house. But we don't see happiness in the concept of this law as it is offered to us. We do not see luck because it comes out of the constitutional frameworks of a very complex constitutional legal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we know that so far at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina we have a defined issue of education at the level of the Republika Srpska entities and that this is the Constitution of the Federation that is in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I guess someone won't tell me it's the Constitution that doesn't comply with the constitutional norms of the highest constitutional act in this country. So which in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina put it in the exclusive jurisdiction of the county. Please, we are now coming to this concept that praises us here, and not one word says that it is not in line with existing constitutional solutions, we are coming to a situation that remains at the level of the RS and so far, which we are not really opposed to, but we are also angry that no one in this whole procedure wanted to listen to us, he did not want to respect as an equal talker, as a partner in this government, and what is very important, as a constitutive nation of this state. So, to see what our opinion is, which is our position, which is why so far 33 legislators have predicted that one Constitution of the Federation prescribed vital interest, among other things, is education, as a vital interest, someone touching, kidnapping from the jurisdiction of the county, raises to the level of entities, without even one question, of a heavy constitutive people, who participates in power, praises Bog and in the counties of the Federation. This is not about RS, because there is no county way of organising. Now we come to another question. How we will not be satisfied, when we have already tried one fear at the Federation level, if something is taken as a vital interest, where we can have some kind of influence, raises to the level of the Federation where it has been proven, so I don't need to mention examples, where we are revoted in Parliament where we can be revoted at any moment and at government level, formed by this law, this concept of the law of a new entity body, is decided somewhere by consensus, somewhere equal to the number of constitutive peoples, mostly all at the recommendation of the CIPOK, which does not decide by consensus. You see the stories. So, this stream that we're showing, which I'm articulating in this way very clearly, very precisely and very loudly on the grounds of our request that you understand that those who let this text go into the process without us, we still have time to waste fixing certain things, not to question the suspicion of even the other two constituent nations towards the third in this country. It's very serious stuff. So this vital interest isn't strictly prescribed for one people. He refers to all the peoples. So now we have to mention him as something that the explicits stand in the Federation Constitution. There's one thing that's mentioned here is that there's something to offer and that's why no solutions are given. It is about our efforts to retain solutions in the Framework Law proposal, on which the Law on Higher Education will be adopted by the RS, means that this is also defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the Law on Higher Education is passed in the county assemblies as defined by the Federation Constitution. Because it is not exclusively divided, but it excludes the jurisdiction of the county and now it is said at the same time we have advocated, come on, if it is already something that is not going, if so far there has been a solution of the RS - County and if there is anything else to be left behind, leave this jurisdiction at RS level, and we in the Federation, why haven't we raised all the other bodies to the state level. So there's a solution to that. We've been looking for such solutions for amendments. Of course, we've been overvoted, it's already five times in the process while we have a debate on this law. He didn't want to have any will to think about it, because it doesn't hurt anyone. So certain bodies are created by the concept of this law, which we can objectively have at the level of the state. Funding higher education, please, the entities have brought their budgets. Dzrava BiH has brought its budget. For the functioning of higher education, budget funds will have to or have already been established in entities, so please, by transferring funds from one entity and from another entity at the level of the state fund that provides for this law, the issue of funding without budget rebalances, budgets and even one additional mark, which should be without any fears spoken of by the minister, would not be financed by higher education in BiH. So these are stories for little children. We're not little children in this home. 34 So we ask you to respect all these reasons that I have given you here. I believe that other colleagues will speak on this subject, but this tried-out fear, therefore, that swallowed fear of Hrvat in the Federation, simply removes us from every thought that we will have luck with this concept of this framework law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2644	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2645	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister legislator, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking about whether or not I'm going to go out for a pay phone at all, but I have come out in view of these amendments, which I have signed and which have not passed that basic parliamentary procedure. So, the commission phase. Of course, the amendments will be restored or offered again to this home. But I won't talk about the amendments. You all have them. I believe, I deeply believe that you were able to read both the truth and the intention by which the orderly was offered to this meeting in the sole desire that this law be given what I, as a representative of the State Parliament, would like as a representative of this House, as a representative of this House. My education and my mission to fight and represent, above all, the interests of this country. According to this and on the agenda of legitimacy, no matter which law or law here has been spoken of which or what law is passed. The final point of the last resort is BiH. Unfortunately, it doesn't always happen. An Enklafantan example is this proposed law, which is in itself, regardless of the explanation of the distinguished Minister of Halilovic, I say regardless of what is offered to his fine party, which I absolutely accept and which only a lunatic would not accept, however, the fact also that this law is essentially legally derogating what we have a legal system, in which we have arranged relations in the area we are talking about, and does nothing to regulate these relations at a higher level, which is called the BiH state. Why do I say that? In the first degree, we subtract rights, in the second degree we do not accept what is and in my opinion, because I have written and now publicly say and I have come out of the framework of the Constitution with my amendments, I have crossed those frameworks on behalf of this country, thinking that accepting such amendments, automatically adopting the existing law, will result in what the laws on the defence of this country on the SIP, the OSI and the other laws that we are trying to finally define the state of BiH. And that's why I'm unsatisfactory in the truth. That is why I am disappointed, especially with the atmosphere created around this law, not respecting neither the people nor the individual, the voting that has become so ugly, as if we were talking and voting for one institution, whose seat, or as soon as we are seated, defend one interested group of 20, 50 or 100 employees. But here it is about the law, which must satisfy and how, we can continue to negotiate, but which must satisfy what we all want. What all three people want. No one has the right to take his right, which is natural, which is social, which is a factor which is not phenomemic, the right to education and in the truth and here we talk about the day, we talk about ourselves, we talk about 35 generations who come and therefore the conditions, no matter what they were, what they were referring to, what they were motivated, and particularly motivated by the uncivil action of the international community and, in particular, by some of its officials, who in ten years in this attitude have not learned the first two letters of the abed, how and in what way this dwarve can live and how and how it can and must. It can only work, let it finally learn how this country can calmly, prosperously, Europeanly in accordance with all declarations, conventions, etc. to function and prosper. Now, that's what I expect from this law, which in the offered form is still not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2646	Thank you, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2647	I'm glad I have a chance to talk about this law today and I find this law very important. We've been waiting for him for a long time. We heard a long discussion about him while he was in the early stages of work and preparation and, here we have today a text to decide on. I understand as well as all of us here that one of the most important resources in BiH is knowledge and education. We're not rich, we're not rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich, we're rich. And for that reason, it's perfectly understandable to me and quite logical that we're all sensitive and that we're all very interested in the question of knowledge, especially high knowledge, high education that needs to give the most knowledge. Of course I agree that we need modern knowledge. I would say world knowledge, knowledge that is not only on European standards, but on those standards that are defined not only by the Bologna Declaration, which is one of the frameworks that we have signed and required to apply, but by those world standards that have enabled the development of knowledge, the development of research, the development of education, those standards behind which Europe is still lagging behind and towards which it is, therefore, primarily those who are in America and for this reason I am talking about the world standards that we need, and some minimum would be what is prescribed in Bolonja. On the other hand, I am not the least of those who feel that what we had was no good and no good at all, and what we will have as a future will be a salvation. However, vice versa, we can thank the fact that for a long time we have been objectively part of the continental, better said German education system, which has shown a high level of ability to adapt to development, this is what has enabled high knowledge both in the former country and in BiH, our engineers our experts, our doctors, our teachers, our teachers have shown their ability, not only in the area of the former common charm in the world and, among other things, thanks to this knowledge, and have gained some quality. I have no illusions, and I know that some of these qualities will be sacrificed for what are called the standards of Bologna and what are called new European standards. I'm not even sure it's strong to the beaver and it's going to be very good. 36 No matter what, of course we need a standard called the Bologna Declaration, that we need a system of credit and the mobility of students and teachers. It's not easy to achieve, nor can it be achieved by someday declaring some university that it has introduced those standards. First of all, it is necessary to provide quality teachers who will be able to pass on knowledge to younger people on a modern standard. Of course, it is necessary to adapt not only to these standards, but also to finally get a degree in research. This is all I support, which I think is important and what I think is necessary, because unfortunately we have lost a great deal of time, not just for a long time, but for the time we have spent under the aggression of BiH, but this year after the Dayton Agreement that we have not been able to recover quickly enough and adapt to these standards. That's why I think the rush, to adopt the law on higher education, is reasonable. I think it's important that we get that law as soon as possible. However, with all this in mind, I don't think these reasons can be enough to sacrifice anything else, which must be the principle and which is the principle in BiH, which is the equality of the people of BiH. Equality of the constituent peoples. This is what I personally consider a principle above all principles in BiH, a principle that must be respected every time and every time we make any decisions, which any of the three constituent peoples in BiH think are important and touch his questions. I'll be very clear here. I don't think anything more or less of this law concerns the rights of Hrvat in relation to Bošnjak rights and rights as Bošnjak, as well as Srbin have the right to use their language and have sensitivity to their language. And, Bošnjak as well as Hrvat and Srbin have the need to have modern education and need and have education that they consider to be in the interest of their cultural and linguistic and any other standards and feelings. For this reason, I will be very clear, I think that we should go the other way to come to this day, and that second time we should go the way to find the first constitutional solutions and then individual legal solutions. I don't think that the good solutions, which are being passed, are then put on hold until the Constitution is agreed, or I don't think they're good solutions, which involve changes to the Constitution, but they don't do, but they go after legal solutions. Of course, I know that probably some of them will have a different opinion and they won't agree with me at all. However, at this time, I find the principle far more important than an individual solution, however much I am interested in good and quality solutions to BiH's higher education law. Here I want to repeat once again, BiH Hrvat are a constitutional and equal and equal people in BiH. They certainly have the right to express their views and feelings as we do others have the obligation to take good care of what these arguments are and to see which solutions should be sought in order to find a final solution. I said the right to education, and especially higher education is certainly an extremely important issue. Perhaps some who are not from BiH, who do not come from the space of the former common state, these questions may be strange, but we still have in this home people who are older than the oldest university in BiH. In other words, we all have a close historical memory, a memory of a time when there were no universities in this country 37. When we went to school in other major centres, when we went to school in Pest and Vienna before that, which was good from the point of view of the program, and it wasn't from the point of view of a number of other sufferers, because we had to study in a different environment, in other languages, etc. And we haven't been able to develop that language at that level as it can develop when we have the authority of a higher education facility. For this reason, I must say that the fears I hear or the uncertainty or certain lack of confidence, which can cause this law to be important to me, are political facts for me, for which a solution should be sought. I'm not here to block the solutions, but I'm not down to the next opposite of the Constitution bringing solutions. I don't want the Hrvat in BiH to feel like they're outvoted. I do not want the Hrvat in BiH to feel that they are majorised and I finally reject any thought that me or Bošnjak in the Federation of BiH are a factor or a factor in majorisation, especially that our principled policy is to majorise Hrvat in the Federation, and thus in BiH. That, indeed, is what I refuse to accept, and I will never be in any process that would go that way. For this reason, I am very clearly expressing my position that as Bošnjak and Bošnjak representative in this home, I do not want to cause any sense of majorisation of Hrvat to Bošnjak or by Bošnjak. Can we at this point, and how much can we change the objective facts we're talking about that's another question? Should we look for solutions that are acceptable? Yeah. I'm not comfortable with solutions that will satisfy a certain date, and they won't meet the basic principles. Like I don't want to see myself majorized and voted, I don't want to see others in this crowd. I do not think that one solution in any law is neither the best nor the best and lasting, and I believe that the solutions that we make in this law must, above all, allow modern and modern world modern education for all future students from BiH and for all future students in BiH who can come on the side. I also want the solutions we find to be such that they allow everyone in BiH to develop further and to give everyone an equal position. If these solutions are in this, to print diplomas in three languages, to give the right to every student and teacher to speak to any of the three constituent nations should go after that solution. If we adopt something today that won't satisfy everything we need, I think we should look for the shortest possible solution that will go that way. Finally, by supporting the basic intention of getting a modern law on higher education, I call on all of us here to look for a solution that will be acceptable and that will lead us to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2648	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. The word is Osman Brka. osmane, I made a mistake. First it's Jukić's turn. In order, mistake. This is where I read it. I'm sorry, please. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2649	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, respected ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, present representatives of the international community, media representatives, I welcome you all. I will try as quickly as possible to say what is most important about the Framework Law on Higher Education, on basic principles. I've been able to answer the question a few times these days about how I see this time when we're going to pass this law. For I answered on several occasions equally. The proposed text of the law is not good, but it is not as bad as it can be fixed by amendments. We of HDZ are in favour of reforms, we are in favour of root and real reforms, which will provide better living conditions for everyone in BiH. And, of course, I was hoping that those amendments that are important and important, that will fix this law that we will adopt them. However, after the commission phase ended, I was disappointed because I learned that none of these amendments were very important and important and that guaranteed that the reform of higher education would be reform, not quasireform. This is a quasireform. I even think that individual solutions in this law are questionable to me whether they are in line with the documents mentioned here, from various conventions, declarations and others, because one of these Bologna Declarations is talking about national and I can tell the state education system, the system. I don't see him, I see three education systems in this country. It's about the need for academic staff and students' motility, I don't know what that is or what kind of passivity, mobility is possible if we have instead of one three systems. Even more interesting, one of these three systems refers to only 70,000 people. Very interesting. We, at least this parliamentary majority and the Council of Ministers, chosen by this parliamentary majority, have opted for reforms. So it was said which are the most important reforms. Among them were the mention of, among other things, the reform of the fiscal system. We said the formation of an indirect taxation administration as a transitional period until the introduction of the VAT as a final goal for more countries in Europe, except BiH and Modavia. There we are. I am therefore surprised that Mr. Minister just now said that he is intimately in favour of the concept of the law, under which education would be arranged at the state level, but no funding is possible. I now ask the question of the Minister and to all of us. Have we already given up for me, the generally agreed fiscal policy we're going to have in the last 3-4 years? Because we already said there's no VAT. Isn't that our goal? If this is realised, then there is no way of funding in this sense of the problem at all at that time. So that's not the reason. And, some other arguments here made in favour of the defence solution of this law are very thin arguments. Actually, there's no argument. I apologize, in reasons, when it mentions the principles or goals that are to be achieved, it does not mention any of what should actually be achieved, because it is not achieved. A single higher school system is not being achieved. What should not be achieved is all in the same position in terms of equal school conditions, including fees and equal standards of academic staff and students. We don't have that. 39 What has most disappointed me is the fact that legal solutions, that solutions in this law are not in line with constitutional solutions, or constitutional arrangements in BiH. So we are passing a law in advance that is not in line with constitutional decisions. I think we're getting into one job, one precedent, and I don't think this is good at all, and Mr. Čengić, he'll probably vote differently from me later, but he said he should have gone in reverse order. And I couldn't agree more. Because I don't know what makes it possible to assume that what is going to happen, and I'm afraid that these solutions, this law, will be the law for only one part of BiH, which is again a worse solution than no solution, or worse solution than there is no law. Therefore, we are really going into very serious trials and we are bringing ourselves this Parliament and the institutions of this country into a possible very unfavourable state, which, I don't know what way it can end well, but these are assumptions, but so far we have no guarantees that it will end very well and within the deadlines set here. I wouldn't talk about the details or the need to talk about it in the second part, but I also feel that we should never have gone in this way in breach of constitutional solutions. We should have prepared this in another way, respecting constitutional solutions, and I also have information that there were amendments that respected BiH's constitutional solution and then only small repairs in these solutions given in this bill. However, again, as I said at the commission stage, there was no will to take that step either. As far as anyone feels good or bad, I have to tell you that as a member of the Croatian People's Club in this parliamentary assembly, I don't feel at all comfortable, nor good at this moment, because I can see from the opportunity, I am assessing how it will be in the vote on this bill. I don't know who needs it. I don't know where it's taking us. These days I heard it was also current for new members to join the European Union when some estimated how much BiH, if it continues such steps and at such a pace of reform will need to become a member of the European Union, and some said, even in 2012. I say, I repeat, I'm an optimist, we talked about this a little bit optimistic truth here ten months ago, and I have to say, and I have to say it's too much to say that it's possible to do it and be in 2009. But if we bring in such legal projects and we call them the reforms, which, once again, I will say questionable implementation because of the discrepancy with our constitutional-legal arrangement, the question is really, were some of them realists and we were just unreal optimists. Here, I really won't be long, in the other part I'm going to talk about some details and if I think it's just, it's too much, because it's already, I think I'm being tested here by political will and mood, and I've already formed attitudes and it's very rigid and clear. About how anyone will vote, and about these amendments that will follow in the second reading, I am not optimistic that we will adopt them at all. Unfortunately, and I don't think that we may be much or too short, so if we really did some more, the minister said a lot of compromises, we should make some compromises and agreements and get a law, which would be, really, a reform law, which would ensure all those goals are set to get a modernly decorated higher education system in BiH, and in this way I say we won't get anything good, because this law doesn't offer good and implements solutions. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2650	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Osman Brka picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2651	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected ministers, guests from the international community, respected journalists, we are in a very interesting environment, where we should bring a very important document for BiH, and as far as I can see the consensus is not made. I think there's a lot of guilt here and there's an international community that gets us into this situation, and I've really gotten the impression that people in this House of Delegates want to work on the ground, but by bringing us into this situation where no political consensus has been made before, things are coming to an ugly, ugly state, which I'm not happy with at all. When we received a proposal from this law, I tried to, when it comes to this law, consult those to whom he refers to students and based on these conversations, I got a certain number of their thinking and I got in fact and you're all delegates have received a certain letter from the Union of Students of the Sarajevo University, with me trying to make amendments based on these remarks. I sent 11 of them. Four were just their wish, four amendments. Today, one was accepted on the commission and the others were not accepted. And now I'm asking each other a question here. I have here a list of all associations of students from the University of Sarajevo, it's the Association of Students of the Academy of Fine Arts, the Faculty of Architecture, the Faculty of Economics, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of Pharmaceutical, Civil Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Education, Law, Faculty of Transport and Communications, Faculty of Health and the Faculty of Education, University of Dental Engineering, Veterinary Faculty, Medicine, Association of Students of Students of the University of the University of Students, Islamic Sciences and the University of Education and the University of Education and the University of Pedagogues, who unanimously seek certain things, which our commission today did not accept. Eh, now I'm asking the question. Does this home have the right to disobey the demands of all these associations of students in Sarajevo? I didn't go outside Sarajevo. I didn't have time, and I liked to go to all the student centers to get an opinion from them. However, these amendments have simply, as well, been done by Osman. That's not how Osman did it, if I was preparing myself in this House, then I was preparing for this law, the Law on Higher Education, because I'm an educational worker by vocality, and I know what that means. I've submitted 11 amendments, seeing that they didn't pass on the commission, restored one key I'll talk about when we talk about the amendments. And I don't want to believe that there will be someone here who can raise his hand against something that is explicitly the right and freedom of every citizen in this BiH. So I want to fight it, and I want to fight it, so in the second part, when we talk about amendments, I want to make that amendment and I want to explain it to you here 41, and I can't believe that someone will be against raising their hand for that amendment. It's actually, if you want, I can talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2652	Don't do Osmane.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2653	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2654	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Osman Brk. Do we have any other objections, any further discussions? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2655	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, today it is said that the ruling parties disagreed, did not find the strength, did not get along, could not agree on this law and that this is one of the problems. Unfortunately, I firmly argue that the opposition parties also disagreed and did not have the power to agree on this law, because, for example, one SDP as an opposition party has a completely different view of this law, compared to one SNSD, which is a key opposition party in the RS space. This is what I'm saying, therefore, that this is a question which, in its nature, has a political dimension in a large and significant dimension. We have before us a law that is said to be anti-reformal, that with such reforms will not be reached anywhere, that it is a law that better not be like this or suggested, a solution that does not contain any solutions, etc. However, when we look a little more closely at the matter, we have one framework law on higher education, which two important issues are being addressed. The Bologna Declaration thus provides a question that regulates and regulates established principles, in accordance with European standards in the fields of graduate, postgraduate studies, diplomas, diplomas, quality assessments, student credit transfer systems, etc. Then, the law ensures compatibility with the Lisbon Convention, which insists on resolving the question of recognition of qualifications relating to higher education in the European League, an extremely significant issue and this law solves it. The law, for a very long time, was included representatives of the Council of Europe and, indeed, a number of international organisations and I think that basic principles in the area of higher education have been incorporated, which have been established or established in the European space of higher education and the law comes from the universal principles of non-discrimination and the right to education, the principles of university autonomy, integrated university, mobility of students, academic staff, staff, the formation of national information centres etc. The law addresses the status of students, the rights of students, academic staff, the status of 42 academic staff, the rights of academic staff, the teaching process, etc. And that makes about 95% of the law. So, you know what's very interesting? Interestingly, however, there are no amendments that resolve or influence the issue of quality teaching, the selection of staff, the technological process of education, how it will improve the recognition of diplomas, which will improve student mobility, which will improve the transfer of knowledge among universities, which will improve the monitoring of world trends in the teaching process, etc. There are no amendments to these questions, which are a key part of this law and which, therefore, solve what the objective of this law is. The amendments are on the question, to be open, and to focus on the essence, are an amendment to the question of whether it is a competent state, entity or county, and these are amendments, mostly 90%. There are no amendments concerning these key law issues. Of course, this is a key issue, but I believe that when we take the goals to be achieved by adopting this law, when we take the imperatives of the Bologna Declaration, the Lisbon Convention, the need for the reform education process, and when we take the attitude, the structure and the issues that have been asked as previous issues to achieve the political consensus, we come to the law proposed in the form, which and those issues, to which the amendments have been tabled, are addressed for a moment in a possible form. I am absolutely so that all competences go to an expensive level and that there, in line with BiH's structure and its national structure, all issues are addressed. However, you know very well that there is no need for political will and the willingness of one or two entities to do so at this point. That's our reality. And those who did the law, those who prepared the law, did it under conditions of knowledge of the BiH-dominated environment. Impatitive to boost the goals that are urgent, up-to-date and imperative to meet the state in which we are. I, therefore, don't want to defend myself, I don't want to represent the interests of the author or the legislator, whether it could be done more subtlely with more skill, I really don't know, knowing the complexity of the situation, but I want to point out firstly what the law offers. What the law is and what the law expects. As a result, I consider that what these laws want to achieve is best achieved, if at the level of the state, normative and all the institutions that regulate this issue, because, therefore, consistent with this principle, I would, for example, support everything that concerns jurisdiction to be transferred to both the CIPOK and the funds, etc. and licensing, etc. However, this view, such an approach to the law, in the course of law-making, did not receive support and no agreement was reached and it is quite certain that at this time such a variant does not have a passing of the law. And it's understandable to me when it comes to such opportunities, therefore, that in a process which is not a matter of fact, therefore, that at this moment, the commitment to the proposed solution is in the law. I, in a proposed settlement in the law, really do not see that the Federation of BiH mentions an advantage and establishes an advantage or provides an advantage, or underlines the establishment of the advantage of any people. So the law solves and treats both the Federation and the other and third people in the same way, with 43 same rights, with the same potential and without any discrimination and without any possibility of majorisation. We witnessed an overvote in this House and nearly three laws when one nation was outvoted or another, there is, therefore, the reality of the business procedure, they have, of course, the other mechanisms that exist. But I don't see, really, in the bill of law that the Federation favors or allows or creates assumptions for the majorization of a nation. Indeed, I couldn’t read with care that some people, whether Bosniak, whether Croatian, or some, are undermining the potential of overvote or majorisation or otherwise. The proposed amendments suggest that additional guarantees be secured, but since it gives the same position, since the same rights are not seen, therefore, the reasons for that. I would not speak of swallowed fears and tried fears at this time without being able to adequately measure the amount of fear in each and every one of the other and in the third people. I'm afraid it's difficult to measure that fear objectively by some measure, but some experiences warn, therefore, that the idea of the amount of fear in this or the other or third people should indeed be taken with caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2656	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I think that, if we were exhausted in this part of the discussion. So if none of my colleagues answer for a word, here I would suggest we put this law to the vote in the first reading. - Eight for it. Who's abstentioned to ask? - 1 abstention. Who's against it? - Five against. I think this law passed in the first reading. I suggest we open the debate and, Anto, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2657	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Envoys Club is requesting a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2658	All right. Thank you very much. It's a 30-minute stop. ...requested a five-minute break, three-minute delay, excuse me. [[PAUZA]] Time's up. We're starting work. Is there a need? I think so. To be told by representatives of the Croatian people what kind of agreement was reached on this break, to continue the work. Is there, like, a club president or who's gonna come out? Mr. Velimir Jukić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2659	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you, we have used this 30-minute break and consulted and concluded the following. Since it is a very important law, which was the 60th amendment, we are, of course, not satisfied with what happened at the commission stage and we have the need to renew the amendments, and it is also possible to submit another amendment, and we ask that deadlines be respected, in accordance with Articles 89 and 2 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2660	Please, Velimir, you want to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2661	And this means that the second reading takes place at least 48 hours from now or from the time of the completion of the commission phase, with this deadline, we are re-applying to the specified deadline of 7.5. Friday and I think it would be a good idea to, perhaps, schedule a follow-up on Friday, while so many professional services, as appropriate, have time and obligation to agree on all amendments in order and in the way it has been.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2662	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Here, so, since it's the position of a club, it's normal to respect it. I ask that we immediately arrange for a meeting Friday at 10 am, immediately I must say that the session will be chaired either by Goran or Velimir, because I am on the way or Goran or Velimir they will arrange it. One more thing. So, we agreed on Friday at 10:00. Jadranko, please. Second, we had one law here to finish this. Proposal for a law on the State Agency for Research and Protection We have completed the first reading. This law has been fully adopted at the House of Representatives and, here, let's finish this law in the second reading and that we've solved what we have left. We're not discussing the tariff law because it fell to the House of Representatives. So that law. Please, we won't discuss it. Please, let's finish this. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading of this law. You've received a report from the Joint Commission. The Commission accepted six amendments, which became an integral part of the text of the law in the second reading. Here you go, we'll have a discussion. There were no new amendments, and is anyone answering for the word on this agenda point? As far as I can tell, no one's answering for the discussion, I'm laying down a law on the State Agency for Research and Protection of BiH. 45 Who's up for the law? Unanimity. My colleagues, thank you very much. I'm asking you, Friday at 10 is the sequel to this session. Thank you very much, just this law. The session's finished at 8:00. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2663	Dear gentlemen, honored delegates and respected guests and representatives of public information, I am opening the continuation of the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the session there are currently 12 delegates, 13th delegate Dr Radovanović here, so here he will join here, so we can find out that we have four delegates from the Bosniak people, that we have 5 delegates from the Croatian people and from the order of the Serb people 4 delegates. Mr Mustafa Pamuk and Mr Zoran Spasojević justified missing from the session for their official trip. Since there is a quorum, we can make decisions at today's session, and in the follow-up to this session, we are left to consider the next item of the agenda, which is 1. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education, Second Reading Ad.1. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education, second reading The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. In accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Amendments were invested by the delegates Nada Radović, Brnko Zrno, Ilija Filipović, Tomislav Limov and Osman Brka. Is anyone answering for a word? I give my word to my colleague Velimirj Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2664	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that at the beginning of our work today we agree on one thing. I think it's important. Article 89 of our Rules of Procedure, since the Croatian People's Club in this House assumes one way to develop the course of this session, i.e. the outcome of the vote, and 47 in accordance with point 3(b), we have prepared another set of amendments in order to bring two or more proposals under discussion. Of course, this is hypothetical, because it may happen differently, but we expect that some of our amendments will happen in a way that is being discussed and that, following a statement on them, we immediately announce the investment of new amendments in order, as it says here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 89(3), sub b). That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2665	I thank Mr. Jukić. I only apologize for one little technical detail. We need to get this straight. So, according to what I understand, we should now comply with these amendments, namely the proposal by Mr. Filipović and Mr. Branko Zrn, because they referred to the same members, and they were different. Right? I'd like to ask someone who can help us overcome it. Mr. Jukić will you?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2666	I'll do it again. I'm sorry if I haven't made myself clear. But I'm going to call here, maybe, if we need to do this, and we're going to have a short break here to figure out how to interpret this. So I'm going to say again now how we interpret article 89 sub b). So the amendments that have been renewed and today are here for us to decide, we assume that some will have a negative outcome for us and, assuming, we have prepared new amendments in accordance with Article 89(3) sub b). So they're hypothetical. They are not now under consideration, but in the event of the rejection of the already existing amendments. But I announce this not to turn out to be later that these amendments have not been announced. They are announced and exist, but they are not current and there is no need, because the same thing has already been amended through other amendments already in the procedure. But here, they may not have to make an announcement, but here we were about to announce that there was some dilemma about whether it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2667	Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2668	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, media representatives, to be careful with the Rules of Procedure and the real situation. The Rules of Procedure therefore really foresees the possibility that, beyond the deadlines set, that is, after the deadlines set, after the debate has begun and the debate has begun, the House Chairman in consultation with the Vice-Presidents may apply new amendments in the following cases – when they relate 48 to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account, i.e. (a) or (b) when trying to bring two or more proposals under discussion into line. We have submitted amendments as the chairman announced by four MPs, delegates. These are amendments submitted at a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission where they have not been successfully defended, and according to the Rules of Procedure, they can be submitted before the sitting to restore the defence of these amendments to the House and this is not disputed. I had the opportunity to see myself last night by a new group of amendments submitted by the delegate Mr Filipović. The nature of these amendments was said briefly to repeat a number of amendments from that set already submitted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and the other group of amendments envisions new solutions. Solutions in terms of one symmetric approach, i.e. that for the Federation and Brcko District in terms of licensing and financing would be the authority at the state level, and for the Republika Srpska's jurisdiction by the entity education ministry. Since the amendments were originally proposed by Mr Filipović to retain jurisdiction at the county, or entity level, in terms of the subject matter to which the amendment is concerned, and that the Amandan Mr. Zrn proposed the jurisdiction of the state for the issues to which it relates, so I do not see here that there are new aspects, if it is referring to a member), and that there are therefore no new aspects which the Commission did not have in mind, and I do not see that these amendments are trying to agree on two or more proposals, because these amendments are not agreeing with Mr. Zrn and Mr. Filipović's proposals in the area where they have been tabled new, and where they are not submitted, they are new amendments. So, I don't see that the alignment of the amendment proposal between the possibility of entity and, or county and state settlement of these issues being in the sense that half of the country will be in charge at the state level and half at the entity level. I am, of course, warning of this fact, because we can consider each amendment individually and determine that it is not an agreement of the proposed amendments and that these amendments do not meet the criteria set out in point 3(b) to be considered an attempt to bring two or more proposals under discussion. I would ask that this be considered, I would ask that we make a statement on the amendments submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is likely that after that will be followed by pauses and consultations, but I am obliged to present this observation and opinion on the Rules of Procedure as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2669	I thank my fellow Genjac. Dr. Radovanović answered the word. I give you my word. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2670	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid we're having a debate now about something that might happen. I think this announcement of these amendments is unnecessary. The fact is that we have several amendments to this law and I think that we should come up with a debate on these amendments, and the alignment of these amendments, or new amendments that would eventually agree and these amendments will come or will not come. It will be accepted or not accepted depending on the College, because the Rules of Procedure foresees it. So we have official amendments to which we will conduct the debate, a possible proposal to bring these amendments into line, may or may not come and may not be respected by the College or not. So now that we're discussing whether something's going to happen or not, I don't think there's any need. We will start by discussing the amendments, and if anyone has any amendments that will bring these amendments into line and the College will accept them or not accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2671	I thank Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Ilija Filipović answers for the word, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2672	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the international community, I welcome you all as well as the media gentlemen who are following our work today. I think the debate over the new amendments has begun prematurely. So, right now, new amendments are being shared. I would ask the College to be given an amendment in accordance with Article 89(3) which will decide whether or not to include new amendments in the agenda. What the esteemed fellow Genjac said. Thank him for representing my opinion, but he incorrectly cited the basis for the investment of new amendments that is Article 89. 3. b) and I would just remind myself that at Tuesday's session, we had on the table a renewed amendment quite different, plus the bill's proposal, so three approaches to a legislative act that we are discussing and this additional foundation that can be followed by new amendments if they try to agree on two or more proposals to be discussed. Excuse me, we will hold a debate on the amendments of the distinguished representative Mr Zrn, who has provided for the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to pass the Law on Higher Education. That's one concept. 50 The second is a concept of a bill that provides for the adoption of a higher education law at three levels. It's one entity, it's another entity, and it's the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have my amendments where I asked, I ask it to return to the constitutional frameworks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the jurisdiction of higher education as strictly prescribed for the counties, the entity of the RS and the Brcko District. So that's three approaches, so three of the proposals that we have here on the table and what you've now got, it's redefery's amendments, so some of them are less than some of them I've given up, and some of which are left, 15 of them, they're redefine with the drive to adopt the Law on Higher Education, which will be bound by universities in the Federation and the Brcko District and the University of Mostar, so it applies to high school, higher education institutions in the Federation, to the state level. This is what I offer new amendments and leave the untapped competence of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to establish, pass the Law on Higher Education for universities in the entity. So in this, I have now explained the foundation and I am asking the College to consider this argument and act in accordance with Article 89.3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2673	I thank Mr Filipović. I have had a long and long time, and I therefore believe that, in accordance with Article 89(3), we should practically now give a break where the College would try to appreciate this, i.e. consider this emerging situation and the investment of these new redefined amendments by fellow Filipović. So, how many half an hour would you like, before we decide on the length of the break, Mr. Brka wants something.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2674	If we're gonna take a break, I just wanted to ask that break to be up to two and thirty.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2675	All right, here's my colleague, Jukić, who is a member of the Kolegijum, who believes that this proposal should be respected. Here's what I agree with him. So I'm taking a break, as far as you said to my colleague, Brka, until 2:30. It's two o'clock. Here's to the beginning of Mr. Genj's break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2676	Uh, two technical questions. Since a member of the Bosniak People's College is absent, it is up to the Rules of Procedure to appoint a member of the College to replace him in absentia. That's one question. 51 And the second question is that, to be clear before this break, the College will respect the new amendments when it seeks to bring two or more proposals into line in which the debate is being held. This means that the new amendment sublimates, synthesizes or in some way unites two proposals that are close or different at some point and then the new amendment, the new proposal on it is declared, and those proposals which are subject to synthesis on them are not declared. I think that's clear. There was a misunderstanding that only after the amendment vote would the new one be submitted and seen. Please, I don't think that's controversial. So if two proposals, two amendments or three proposals, three amendments on a question are trying to translate into a form to unite those two or three, and a new amendment is being made, this is the situation which the College can respect and accept the submission of new amendments. So if two or more proposals are to be agreed on, the proposals are to be discussed. After the merger, there is no vote on all proposals, but on a synthesized proposal. Therefore, yes, I think that here as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, the first thing is not disputed, and the proposal of the Bosniak Club to replace Mr Pamuk's college, and I think it is necessary for the House to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2677	Here's to make sure there's nothing questionable about that, if there's any need to make a decision at home, we can vote on that. So here's a proposal from the Bosniak Club to change Dr Halid Genjac to the absent chairman, or member of the Kolegijum of the Bosniak People of Mr Mustafa Pamuk. Who's up for this proposal? Now we can vote. So a unanimous proposal from the Bosniak People's Club was adopted. 13 votes in favor. As for the second part of Mr. Genjac's discussion, I think it's precisely the subject of what this college is about right now in this debate to make a decision on what to do. So the break is up to 14 hours, and I invite Mr. Jukić and Mr. Genjac to my office to discuss. Members of the Council of Ministers, members of the international community, representatives of public information, here we continue after the break with the 23rd session of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And at the very beginning, I would like to inform you that the College of the House of Nations has not reached a consensus on the amendment tabled by Mr. Ilija Filipović and here 52, so I propose that we declare the amendments that we have announced here today, these are to remind you of the amendments made by Mr. Ilija Filipović, Branko Zrn, Nadet Radović, Tomislav Lim and Osman Brk. [[PAUZA]] Mr Filipović would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2678	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since I heard the College’s decision, which discussed in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure point 3 on the new amendments that I have made, I would only regret to conclude, the College is authorised to interpret the Rules of Procedure that you have misread the Rules of Procedure and that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, because, in accordance with Article 89(3)b), in relation to the unconformed amendments that we have before us, which I had in mind on Tuesday, I have come up with amendments that were a practical solution for all, when I say a solution for everything, then I think of all three constituent peoples, since this is about the vital national interest of established constitutions that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this solution that has been offered, which you refused to discuss, was not against anyone. I am sorry that you have not used your powers, Mr. Chairman, as referred to in Article 18. Rules of Procedure, where you, as chairman of today's House sessions, had the right to make your own decision and report to the House. But you did what you did, but you violated the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2679	Okay, thank you, although I don't agree with Mr Filipović, of course, but I don't want to replicate. Anyone else want to talk? If not, then we move on. I'm sorry, I didn't see, pal Jukić here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2680	I'll do it very briefly. At the College session, no consensus has been reached because the consensus means that all three of us agree and agree on the same thing, we feel the same way about it, or we decide the same thing. I would ask, although I don't know if it's good to introduce it into practice, but I think it would be good for a member of the College who feels there was no reason to reach an agreement and consensus to explain why. I thought that some amendments are a typical example of what is stated in point (b) when it says that it seeks to agree on two proposals, and Article 18(2) here defines, if no consensus is reached, then the solution is that the chairman has the right to make a decision, to rule, means in the case of no consensus and inform the House. 53 This time we can interpret this, that the president agreed with the lack of consensus, and then there is no need to explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2681	I thank my colleague Jukić. Niko one wants to talk about this point anymore, and here we move on to the amendments. We have an amendment, you all have the amendments mentioned before you, and I don't think there's any need to read them. So we have an amendment and Mr. Ilija Filipović. Is anyone answering for a word? You do. Mr. Ilija Filopović. I'm on display right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2682	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So you have seen from the concept of my amendments that I am in favour of returning, therefore, and the content of my amendments, I am in favour of returning to the concept of a bill that would be consistent with constitutional solutions, so to the constitutional solutions of the complex constitutional legal structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When I say so, I will not say anything new, but we have actually talked about it in the first reading that the concept law is so set up that it foresees the adoption of this framework law on higher education, only after that will it be requested to amend the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina where, in the areas of higher education and in general, education policy is placed in an exclusive, not division, but exclusively the jurisdiction of the county. So this would mean that our 10 counties in the Federation are making identical, adequate county decisions in their congregations to pass it on to the entity. Two, since it is an area defined as a vital national interest for each of the three constituent peoples in the Federation Constitution, at Federation level, I doubt and doubt the success of the transfer of these powers from the county precisely because of all these objections I have spoken about both last time and the surrounding and now I will say a few words. So at County level under the Federation Constitution we have therefore somewhat in certain counties protected vital interest when it comes to education. This way, when I say this, I wouldn't want anyone in this room to think for a moment who listens to these words and these words that we are against educational reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I believe that they are extremely useful, extremely necessary, that they should simply be harmonised by legislation that regulates the area of higher education and, at all, education with EU legislation where we are headed by this entire society from Southeast Europe and all countries of transition. 54 I therefore mean that this legislation of our country will be in accordance with the standards set out in the Bologna Declaration and in the Lisbon Convention. And it's unquestionable and unquestionable to us. But it is disputed in the concept of this law that more important matters are decided by the competent entity instead of the county competent authority or in some amendments we have proposed, come on, if you're already taking this from the county's authority, raise it to the state level that other countries have in the environment that other countries have in the EU. So this is something that guarantees us that we will have uniformly equal criteria for all students and all universities and universities if you prefer it throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's something that we on that background and on that trail want to accept every provision of this law. Of course, since this is an area of vital interest to each of the constituent nations, we make sure that we do not damage anyone’s vital interests in the field of education. This competent entity, by the concept of the proposed law that we are talking about here today, decides on very important matters, so that I do not now list them on the proposal and recommendations of the CIPOK which again does not decide by consensus. Please, nice. So these are some virtual solutions. Somewhere there's a consensus, somewhere it's a recommendation to respect the CIPOK and thank God it's at the state level, and it's decided by the entity body by consensus, by the entity's competent authority. So the concept of this is crucial, so this amendment is key in order to maintain constitutional legal solutions that rule, which are valid in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the promoter is consciously, hoping retroactively, so on convalitating these provisions that we should bring today, through the change of the Federal Constitution. So we're selling a future harvest, we don't know if we're going to beat her up, whether she's going to be. So we're playing with something that is objectively unorthodox in a complex structure and complex relationships that rule in our country. So that's why, I'll take the law and say you haven't accepted new amendments, new circumstances, but we've had a chance so far when we've decided on some amendments we could change the word. The Proposer could change the sentence, he could determine, change the decimal, he could redefine that amendment, etc. In this sense, because of the reconciliation of all these views and not touching the rights of the RS entity that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska regulates its law area of higher education in Republika Srpska, we asked that, because it satisfies both the Croatian interests of the Bošnjak, that this area for the University of Mostar and the universities of the Federation, so in other cities regulated at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be passed under the framework law on higher education which would therefore have an asymmetric solution, we have thousands of them, we have them so far, we will have them, and from now on we have two laws, because if we pass this, such a solution and such a proposal, such a framework law from the workshop of the relevant ministry, where I am openly not listening to an adequate Croatian word. When I say adequate, I mean waist. A consultation of the academic community has been left out and a consultation with universities in Mostar has been left out. That's where gentlemen 5, 6 and a half thousand students are studied. There are 800 academic staff employed at the university and all eyes are right here in this home. Will in a just, just, honest, decent way behave this home when 55 discuss the remarks that here a proposal is ahead of us which we are talking about is not satisfied with one people who has therefore been made in a complete procedure without the consent of the representatives of the Croatian people from the Council of Ministers where the promoter and without Croatian votes let it come to all levels of competent bodies to this home. I would imagine a little bit whether it's good in such a complex situation, in a complex system where we live here to actually revote a people on a legal project when it comes to an area defined as vital national interest. It's not good, it's not good because of all those who supported this solution, it's not good either of those who helped this country, and who didn't respect all the specificities of this country and didn't take the essential fact that partners here are the three forming nations in this country. It is very harmful to leave one constitutional people on such important legal projects. We've been outvoted in all of the previous procedures, so the process of determining here through the House of Representatives, through the reading, here we are today and in the second reading. That's why my personal request went down. We haven't wasted any time from Tuesday to today. We've done a series of conversations, we've created a series of assumptions that what's going to happen here in this home doesn't really happen. We have contacted many international factors, contacted all political parties that form the parliamentary majority. There is no one right here, regardless of what makes it clear to us what will happen around this law, to place a burden on the Croats, the Croatian Club and the Croatian people at all levels of decision over this law of guilt why the law did not take place. Hrvat as partners are not respected at any stage in the process of creating this project, which means vital national interest for the Croatian people. So today someone tells us that it will guarantee some resolution, that it will guarantee us with some letter in which everyone will sign, and that letter has not been granted to us. So this is for us, and it is our constitutional right to protect national interests not only of the Croatian peoples. Maybe it'll happen in our work tomorrow that's in front of us and someone else. We're recording this, we can look at it, so time will show us all the correctness of this position and these words that I'm saying. You may recall that today was one day of the 7th May bad day for decisions to revote any of the three constituent nations in BiH. I'm asking you to reconsider. If the jurisdiction of the county and the authority of the entity body is not acceptable, then in the time for the authority of the entity body to consider if we want to leave it at the level of the entity, I call once again on you to consider leaving the jurisdiction of the RS entity, that was two against the third one around this law, and I am clearly and openly speaking, there is no doubt there. That political deal is on the scene. Please and he has his own meaning, but there's no point when it comes to the vital national interest of any nation. I've given a more broad explanation than this amendment requires, but these amendments are in line with constitutional solutions, by rejecting these amendments, we are trampling 56 constitutional solutions and the Federation Constitution that speaks of the sole jurisdiction of the Federation's counties for the field of education in the Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2683	I thank my colleague Filipović. Anyone else want to talk? I don't see any reports, so I'm going to vote, sorry, sorry, Mr. Hasan Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2684	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, media representatives, we are continuing today to discuss what we talked about three days ago, and I am sorry that we actually need to repeat some of the things we talked about earlier. I've had my stand and expressed my view on this matter. I'll probably be shorter today and say next. It is true that this is a question and a question of the Constitution and the jurisdiction of the constitutional one, and it is true that this question, in my opinion, should be resolved as before, and only then go to law-making. Today, at this level of procedure, after already one home passed this law, after we brought it in the first reading, after all the consultations that we had to return this provision to the cantonal level would mean actually not having this law and refusing this law. On the other hand, by my understanding, the Federation is a space in which we have the possibility, we have the opportunity to decide on all matters equally, and it is also made the way it was made and with the right to point out national interest in order not to be an unfair treatment of any of the constituent peoples. As far as editing this matter at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, I personally think it is actually one of the real solutions on one condition that it is done entirely in Bosnia and Herzegovina, equally for all and at the same time. Any asymmetry on this issue today would mean that we are actually bringing citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina into further imbalances and going back to the old topics which, thank God, are closed with heavy and long-term negotiations and all that has happened before and in the meantime. In this regard, therefore, a solution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that, under the condition of integrity, symmetry and at the same time, until we reach that time, this is a solution that is certainly half-way, which is not the best solution, however, which provides an equal position for all. In that sense, I want to say again very clearly and very loudly, I have never been, I will never be on the side of anyone, any act, let alone a project that would in any way lead to an unequal position of the constituent people. The party I belong to has never advocated disabling the position of any of the three constituent nations in this country, and that will, by my understanding, be our position in the future. For this reason, they cannot accept assessments of such behaviour to decomposition or reduce the consistency of one of the three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina on this issue. Especially not 57 can accept any assessment that implies that some two, this time two nations have agreed this time against a third nation, so to his harm. We are here in a situation where we are in long-term discussions in the resolutions and solutions that we have ahead of us that were created within maybe more than a year of direct work. We must decide what is before us. If I could choose, I would personally have very serious objections to the concept, and especially to certain solutions within this law, but we are today in the procedural phase in which we are. For this reason, and we will obviously have to decide on the amendments, and what would be a one-principle solution to this issue in principle will certainly be discussed in the future. I do not think that today we intend to destroy the constitutionality of the Croatian people, as I do not think we should do at any time and as I do not think we should go against the consistency of any of these three peoples in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2685	I thank Mr. Čengić. Anyone else want to talk? Well, here's what I'm gonna say. Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that we are coming in this way in a frustrating situation of all practically all of us here representatives of all three constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am very sorry about that. I'm one of the people who tries to compromise whenever possible. I'd like to do it again here and say that we're all delegates here, so we're representing the attitudes of someone who's been delegating us here. In the case of the Serb people, these are the views of the Republika Srpska National Assembly. All political entities in Republika Srpska have reached a consensus after a number of discussions and the procedure in which this law was held in the previous months, in the previous period, that this solution is acceptable from our point of view and therefore my mandate and these three colleagues from the Serbian people is today to accept a solution as envisaged, as has come into parliamentary procedure here. There are certain amendments that can be acceptable, but that will not essentially change the essence of this law. So here I want to say before all these statements that this is the position that Serbian delegates will vote today, because it is simply a political consensus that has been reached, therefore, by all political, most political, or all relevant entities from Republika Srpska. Thank you. Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2686	This amendment by Mr. Ilija Filipović, in fact, is a key amendment, i.e. this amendment talks about the concept of this law. Mr Filipović said what 58 he means, but I will talk here about the thinking of my, my responsibilities and the responsibilities of my colleagues at the Croatian People's Club in this home. Mr. Milojević has given me motive to mention this question in whose name we are delegated here, what we represent, what we are obliged to listen to. I am aware of my responsibilities and I must say here and show my dissatisfaction that the promoter has, I do not seem to have sufficiently respected the interests of the public, especially the professional public, and especially one part of it, because I have been able to talk to the public and the interested and professional public several times these days, where we have received very clear assessments of the proposed bill which, in its concept and basic philosophy, is not acceptable. We tried as the Club to be very constructive, we tried to go with amendments in the commission phase to ensure an optimal solution for us. Since that wasn't in the commission phase, we tried to be consistent again in finding a solution, so if you can't optimally, then a possible solution. However, today here at the beginning of this session when it comes to second reading we faced another fact that some people do not even have the will to give their consent to take on an idea, a solution that is an additional compromise to get just a little better solution than the proposed solution that there is no understanding either. I express my regret and I am not convinced that this is a way to achieve good solutions in future legal projects. What will follow behind this amendment of the amendment almost knows the results in advance. However, I also believe that it does not belong to any of the responsibility of those of us who have proposed a better and better-quality solution so that this law with such a disabled and bad solution does not pass. I am particularly encouraged by my thinking about this law that people who are directly interested in the student assembly and part of it are a significant part of academic staff precisely on the trail of our thinking, i.e. we here represent the attitudes of these people. And I don't think we have the right, and we have the obligation to represent such attitudes, and we don't have the right to change our views, correct for the account of some kind of non-cooperation. But those co-operations and giving up their views are the result of a bad solution. Solutions that will instead have three higher education systems in one country, as stated in the Bologna Declaration of the National School System. These days I listened to, after our first session and came forward in the public of our distinguished Minister Halilović, who in one part also referred to amendments and debates of HDZ representatives and MPs in the House of Croats, and he called it otrilica in a way that he, in fact, assessed that they themselves, thinking about us, we don't really have a clear view of what we want. And I say that we have a very clear view of what we want and we have offered solutions in the commission phase of a solution for an optimal solution and this optimal solution is the best solution and the only real solution. However, since different developments may occur, as has happened, that such amendments do not pass through, we have also gone with other amendments that are again trying to find a better solution than the proposed solution. I think that's where we showed absolute 59 consistency and our perseverance in finding the right ones, if not the right ones, then as much better solutions as possible. And I wouldn't really talk about the details. This law, apart from being conspicuously poorly set up, is its second major objection to being inconsistencies with constitutional solutions, i.e. the assumption that constitutional solutions should be changed so that this law could then be implemented. This is totally upside down. The opposite should have been done, but when it had not already worked the opposite, so before changing the constitution, it would sort of align them with a particular concept that the law provides for. If that didn't work out and it didn't work out, then at least it was necessary to listen to the existence of political ram to make such possible constitutional changes happen. Today there was such an attempt and an idea with these amendments that were subsequently delivered, but here we gave them neither the right of citizenship, so neither the right to discuss them. I believe that this is also part of my view and the suspension of the right of MPs to use everything given to him in the Rules of Procedure, and that individuals, my colleagues, use the right, if they do not agree, I interpret it in a way that they take away the right of their fellow Members to state it, because this is what the Rules of Procedure allows, its position, its proposal, its own solution, to be democratic about it, as the Rules of Procedure have predicted. That's what I consider a suspension of my fellow counsel's rights. Here, I really won't be long. If we decide to discuss each amendment, I don't know if it makes any sense, because it seems to me that already in advance the result of the vote of a statement on amendments has been set, and by me a statement on this first amendment, which has actually given a whole new concept and new solutions, provides for new solutions and, in different ways, amendments from the same author in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2687	I thank my colleague Jukić, and Mr Halilović, the resolute minister, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2688	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, of course, not wanting to pollinate here with MPs, is not even a common practice, I would just like to say that quoting this statement as to the diversity of statements of a political party's MPs is correct. They are seen most surprisingly in the amendments submitted at the House of Representatives of Mr. Martin Raguž and Mr. Ivo Mire Jović. Their presence is completely, diametallically opposite to one amendment, so that everything goes to the cantonal level, and one thing goes to the state level. And the third option is to create an ad from the competent body an ad hoc body that decides by consensus on I don't know this. There is no such ministry anywhere in the world. 60 And the fourth variant of these reflections is some fear, I read in the Mostar media that a bridge university will be abolished which was here and stories in Parliament etc. which has not occurred to anyone in normal terms, the law says that each of the universities has been accredited four years in advance and that it is only four years after their testing whether they are subject to European standards, i.e. the Bologna process, and I have observed those facts, and I have not been involved in valorising, disqualifying or polemic with any of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2689	I thank Minister Halilović. Mr Filipović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2690	I'd like a little replica just in relation. So now you've heard something that's not the usual way to get into democratic and Western Europe, even in democracy. To allow a minister to comment on how the MP discussed it and what decisions the House of Representatives made. It is the minister's duty to implement what the House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2691	Mr. Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2692	I fenced up in advance, and I said I didn't want it to be seen as a polemic at all, not even to be taken for granted. I was just called to say it and I realized the fact. I don't want to pollemize or disqualify anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2693	I thank Minister Halilović. Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2694	So I wouldn't get involved in any controversy, because there's no need for that at this point, but I'd like to find two facts. The first is that it is the government's duty, hence each minister individually to implement decisions by the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think that's a question, and we haven't talked about it. At the same time, it is the right of every minister involved in the process of preparing and passing laws to justify his views in the process of talks on the law until the law is passed in the same way that each of us legislator or MP in the House of Representatives has the right to present his arguments and his amendments. I think it's the only democratic procedure in the world, and it's only democracy, neither east nor west, but the one from old Glacier and beyond. A classic democracy in which those involved in the same process have equal rights. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2695	I thank Mr. Čengić. As far as I can tell, no one's answered their word again. Here I am looking at this visually and I have this display in front of me, because we are not fully used to these new conditions that we have. So, since no one has answered the word anymore, I will now allow it to mean that we are voting, that we are pleading on Amendment I, or the first Mr. Ilija Filipović. You can vote. So we can conclude that this amendment has not been passed, no amendment has been adopted and Mr. Ilija Filipović. We're moving on to the amendment and Mr. Branko Zrn. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Zrna, proposing an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2696	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. The bottom line is, I'm still going to say a few words that I already said last time I read this law. Maybe even a little clarification. This walk to the amendments of those who remain absolutely on constitutional grounds, which Mr. Ilija Filipović and those I last said were to a certain extent a constitutional foundation, but in one other vision, in one hope that this law could, should and must be, and I deeply hope that one day it will be, regardless of the resolution of this present situation. So the simple situation dictated a relationship to this law or the relationship of this law to us, dictated this kind of amendment behavior. And there should be nothing strange about that and this third attempt, an attempt to put an end to what is a standard legally constitutional and what should be the future standard of this law. So, the trail of my amendments is actually a clue that leads to or goes through the sorrows of the general reforms that this society has set out to do, to which this country is headed. I'm free to say because I've been to a lot of gatherings that the world has, in the same way, slightly even euphorically welcomed everything that we've done so far in the wake of uniting all the segments of life in this country. I think of those solutions that we have come to in defense, in security and I don't see any reason for defence and security in its own sense, in its message, in its essence, in its sensation as part of general life in these areas to be ahead of what's called education. No matter what his level, but here we are right now talking about preschool education. Because of that, I'm a little sad that this is how this is going on around this law, and I'm sad that nothing from the whole of this lab could find its place in the Law of Higher Education. 62 I was deeply convinced, that even today I am and now I am convinced that the amendments signed by me can be reformable, can be with a little effort constitutional and can be acceptable to everyone. I did this out of deep belief that this law in its offered content and antifeform, it's anti-constitutional absolutely and there's nothing to discuss and for a whole nation it's unacceptable. I welcome, and absolutely respect my colleagues who, colleagues of Bošnjak and fellow Srbin who have committed themselves to this law. I respect their position, I respect the measure of policy that has chosen for this law behind which they have left behind, and let them stop. But let us, as a people, be respected in our position, unfortunately, that this law is not acceptable to us. I wish I could speak differently. With all due respect to their fellow parliamentarians and their views, this same respect goes to disrespecting those who have not respected us. I'm thinking more like a proposed law. This law shouldn't have done anything like this. It shouldn't have forced anything into this procedure. It's all actually gone wrong a long time ago. This law didn't get no in this House. A long time ago he got his no... he got it before the Council of Ministers, he got it at the Council of Ministers, he got no, on one and the other parliamentary Constitutional and Legal Commission and he came here to us and we all sitting here are least responsible for the fate of the law, regardless of what it will be like. So I just don't respect the procedure that the law has come to us and that's the worst and that's the most tragic thing that can happen to us all the time. To offer, I believe and deeply believe, I am sure that this law, with its four principles, has come to this Parliament to make it far more acceptable and more acceptable to all of us, I have done, I have done, and in this procedure I have accepted, but this is not understood, because it is not logical, I am talking now about illogical but here in some sense of logic. That's why I'd like you to make a statement about this amendment as well. There's no need to comment on it, you all have it, and that's all I'd bother you with. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2697	Thank you, colleagues, for the Zrn. Anyone else want to talk? I don't see anyone checking in. Therefore, I am voting on amendments and Mr. Branko Zrn. It could start a vote. So we have a total of -8 against, -5 for, the abstentions are gone. The amendment didn't go through. Mr. Anto Spajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2698	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, the media, certainly representatives of the Croatian people have made a lot of efforts to improve this set of laws, I would say with the right bad law, but unfortunately here we see that the first amendment, which is also fundamental, has come to a fate. I would not comment on and downgrade the words of my colleagues in the order of the Croatian people, and I would not be obliged to give an answer or give an answer, we used 63 constitutional rights and gave the answer in this way, that is, to this vote of the basic amendment. Representatives of the Croatian people, pursuant to Article 4(3) of the Constitution of BiH and Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, prior to the meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the Proposal for a Framework Law, on higher education in BiH, unanimously declares all 5 MPs from the Croatian people's House of Peoples to be harmful to the vital interests of the Croatian people of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH. Under one, the Framework Law proposal does not contain a clear, unquestioned and unequivocal guarantee provision that Hrvat as well as the other two equal and constructive peoples in BiH and in the future will have at least one university in BiH in the official Croatian language, and the other two peoples in their official languages, but such a provision of the Statute of the University of Mostar will depend on the merciful judgment and decision of the competent entity member 35. And this very body agrees with the Statute despite the fact that its composition does not provide for the equal representation of all three constituent peoples, but therefore has to follow the advice and recommendations of the CIPOK Committee whose powers are laid down in Articles 43 to 45, for which again the legislator did not provide for a decision by consensus, which is very significant and not sustainable for us. Under two, Proposal for a Framework Law, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, Article 3. 4b) and its harsh violation, as well as the violation of the county constitution, have taken the exclusive jurisdiction of the county as well as the federal units in the field of education policy. Furthermore, the Federation of BiH constitution does not contain any provision that would prescribe the transfer of county powers to the Federation of BiH. Therefore, Article 3(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4b) clear, precise and unequivocally prescribed responsibilities of the county to determine education policy, including the adoption of rules on education and education insurance, and the transfer of this competence to the Federation of BiH, in the envisaged manner, is most directly jeopardising the vital interests of the Croatian people in BiH. Under three, we express reasonable and well-founded suspicion and fear of revote and majorisation in decision-making at federal level mainly in federal authorities and those to be based on the provisions of the proposed law in the Federation for High Education Issues, of course contrary to constitutional provisions. It should be quite clear that our justified and yet resuscitating fears are being strengthened in the area of higher education, which is an unequivocal vital interest for the Croatian people in BiH, cannot be removed by the words of the OHR officials' promises and assurances but by clear and decided legal provisions that will remove any doubt and offer fair and acceptable constitutional solutions for all students and academic staff of all universities throughout BiH. Under four, we require the chairman of the House of Peoples to act in accordance with this act in accordance with Article 14(3) and (f) of the Constitution of BiH, since some of the provisions of Section 5 of Part 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House do not comply with the provisions of the 64 Constitution of BiH. In signature, MPs Ilija Filipović, Velimir Jukić, Tomislav Limov, Anto Spajić and Branko Zrno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2699	I thank the president of the Club of the Croatian people Mr. Spajić, and here we have a new situation. A statement was made, therefore, on vital interest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House and I will, at this point, interrupt the debate on the law, and open up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure also means a debate on the statement of vital interest. Mr. Genjac reporting for word. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2700	Dear colleagues, at this point we have received a written statement from a club that calls for destruction of vital interest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, at this point, we're opening a debate about the objection, about the statement of destruction. I listened while the club chairman read the call for destruction by vital interest. And now I've had a chance to go in writing, to take a look. The general objection is called for by the whole of the law, for the assessment of the law and for certain moments for certain chapters on jurisdiction. I would be happier, of course, if certain members were called, but this is the legitimate right of a club that will be taken by the pistachio and since it is mostly generally a problem, in this call....vital interest, I will present some of my opinions to this debate and, of course, in accordance with Article 135(1) and within the deadline provided for in Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, four present delegates of the Bosniak people, object to the Croatian Club's statement of destruction by the vital interests of some members or law in the whole of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education of BiH. As the Rules of Procedure provides, we will also deliver this written objection within 24 hours, from this moment on and within 24 hours. We announce, therefore, an objection to the invitation, because this is important for the business procedure further. We believe that this law is neither destructive for Croatia nor for any people in BiH. The Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH is based on the basic principles contained in international documents, which it accepted and signed by BiH. The framework law developed with the assistance of the Council of Europe and other international competent and competent authorities and organisations shall contain basic principles in the area of higher education established or established in the European higher education area. The law comes from universal principles of non-discrimination and the right to education. The law regulates the principles of internal autonomy of the university, integrated university, promoted....Students and academic staff, introduces the functioning of the National Information Centre for University Events, etc. 65 The framework law ensures that a system of ease of mobility, visibility and comparison of qualifications is adopted, which is extremely important for all students in BiH, regardless of which people they are. Furthermore, it adopts the system of two main cycles, undergraduate, postgraduate, and PhD, which is also one general approach and in order to be compatible with European cycles, very significant for all students. The law establishes a credit system that already operates in European space, which is of paramount importance to all our students. The law promotes mobility of students and other academic staff within BiH and across Europe. The law encourages co-operation between European universities and with European universities from our university to ensure quality. In addition, the framework law affirms the principle of lifelong learning, involving students maximum in the teaching process, affirming the European dimension in higher education, improving the attractiveness and communicability of the European higher education area compared to other regions in the world. Then, the law promotes, therefore, further co-operation between existing institutions in BiH, higher education institutions, promoting availability of information in higher education in BiH, etc. With everything in mind, and starting with the goals this law needs to achieve, we believe that this law is extremely important, necessary, beneficial and not a bit harmful for all peoples in BiH. The objectives of the law, the achievement of students, the mobility of students, the credit system, the mobility of students, the co-operation between universities, European standards on recognition of diplomas, European credit standards, the licensing of universities are something that young generations expect from us. And that's the goal that's being achieved at this point with this law and its basic content. I don't see it in the law, I repeat it once again, not in any point, not in any article, not in any notch, not in any word, not in any sentence, that no nation is favored, that no nation is discriminated against, that a nation is brought into the position of majorization. The bodies in the Federation are to make a decision by consensus. So what needs to be decided in the Federation will be decided with full respect and respect for the constitutionality of the people of BiH and the Federation, if otherwise, I would be the first to oppose this law. This law goes on, it takes nothing from the entity. This law neither of the cantons nor of the county takes anything. This law solves in 90% of its substance, what students need right now. And ensuring the achievement of the offered financial and material assistance for the university's reform in BiH, which is vital, the national interest of all the peoples in BiH. So the law in the first step secures it. What is the issue of administration, what is the issue of decision-making in terms of funding and administrative functioning and the issue of jurisdiction, at what level? The law makes it very clear in Article 56(2) that the provisions of this law, which require the granting of powers for a certain high education function in netizens, will apply from the moment they are created, initially have been written legal and our amendment adopted constitutional and legal conditions for these allocations. Therefore, this law does not take anything from anyone, this law provides in the first step what our students need and what is needed and what is needed to obtain financial and material assistance for the reconstruction of the university and in the 66nd step a new perspective in order to achieve solutions rationally and possibly at this moment in both entities in BiH, the perspective of the entire BiH state. Until then, the provisions of this law which concern these issues, as the law makes it very clear, will not apply. For these reasons, I continue to believe that the Bosniak Club believes that the adoption of this law is in the content it is proposed, of vital interest to all three peoples and all citizens in BiH, because it ensures everything that is stated and stopping the process and slowing down the process of passing this law is harmful to all peoples and all citizens in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2701	I thank Mr. Genjac. As we have heard, Mr. Genjac has already made a verbal objection and I expect therefore and promised that within 24 hours, according to the Rules of Procedure in writing, he will deliver the complaint and he will be delivered to the clubs. I suggest that at this point here, because we already have the meaning of announcing this objection orally we will have it in writing, that, that the clubs should determine the representatives of this commission who will try to find a solution based on Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. And I'll remind you that it's time for this joint committee to be composed of three delegates of the sea, the deadline is 5 days. The deadline is the 5th day of Wednesday, 12. 05th, but I suggest if it's possible before. Therefore, here it is not necessary for the Rules of Procedure to choose the members of the committee, but each club will appoint one representative of this committee for the alignment, and I ask this, the club heads to determine this, the delegates who will be members of the commission. I give my word to Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2702	The Serbian delegates' club on the commission suggests Mr. Nadet Radović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2703	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2704	The club of the Croatian people suggests Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2705	Thank you. Mr. Ilija Filipović will be a member of the Croatian People's Commission. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija suggests on behalf of the Bosniak club.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2706	I suggest Dr. Halid Genjac. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2707	Mr. Halid Genjac will be a member of this Joint Commission in front of the Bosniak People's Club. Here is the stenogram, and I will repeat that Mr. Nada Radović of the Club of Serbian Delegates will be a member of the club. So, Mr. Neimarlija answers his word, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2708	Just suggest that the commission meet on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-05-04-0.u2709	So we have a proposal from Mr. Neimarlija to meet the commission on Tuesday. Do you have a captain's appointment, too? 12 o'clock, is it? So the agreed commission will meet on Tuesday at 11 May at 12 o'clock. So, another note that the Bosniak delegates' club is due within 24 hours in writing to file this complaint. I'm finalizing today's debate and I wish us more success in the future. The sitting's done at 3:25.
