ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10848	I am opening the 28th session of the House of Representatives of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen at the 28th session were invited our regular guests, representatives of international and non-governmental organisations who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this house. In this regard, the chairmans and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, chair and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OHR representative, the OSCE representative, the EU representative, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Representative of the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this session, the UN mission representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of NGOs at the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I welcome everyone present and thank you for their presence at today's session. According to the Service report, I agree that the meetings are attended by 32 MPs. The absence of official travel was justified by Mr Filip Andrić, Selim Bešlagić, and Mr Križanović for his illness. So I find that Dom has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move to the debate on the agenda proposal, it is my duty to inform you that I received a notice from Dr. Snežana Savić on the difficulties of performing the post of the Obdusmena Bosnia and Herzegovina on 20 January. You have today received this letter Snežana Savić White, and I hope you are familiar with its contents. Mrs. Snežana Savić, as you have seen, resigned on the post of Obdusmen. In accordance with Article 12(2), The Law on the Obdusmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina I am publishing the vacant place of the Obdusmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2 I will remind you of this occasion and of the provision of Articles 3 to 12 of the law under which the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina will present a proposal for the appointment of a new area within a month of the day of publication. So my obligation is as chairman just to inform you and to send the Presidency simply this announcement that the resignation has been submitted and that the Presidency should use its constitutional powers and propose a new occupancy. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda for the 28th session. Meanwhile, after the meeting was convened, Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija submitted a motion for a resolution to withdraw from the procedure and introduce a temporary five-year moratorium on all laws and decisions introducing new privileges of elected officials in the executive and legislative power. The proposal is Zlatko Logumdžija is to put the resolution into the agenda of this session. To work effectively and simply interpret Article 121. The Rules of Procedure, the Enlarged College yesterday took the view that this resolution should be forwarded to the competent commission, after being a part of the agenda. So all I'm talking about is the Joint College proposal. And I also want to inform you that, before I open a debate on the agenda at the Joint College, we have taken a unique position that the agenda points 19 and 20. Consideration of the motion for a resolution, the SNSD Club Proposer and the motion for a resolution on the moratorium on the application of the Free Trade Agreement, MP Momčilo Novaković, the Joint College proposes to the motions for a resolution that this resolution, that the resolution be withdrawn from today's session for the reason that the resolution and one and the other have achieved their goal. For the first reason it has been put into a broader context and active moves have been drawn in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second because the simple submission of this resolution has resulted in a special session which the Council of Ministers and this Parliament have taken an active position on what is the content of this resolution. In that sense, I would ask the motionors of the resolution to simply be at the back of this proposal of the College and what I was looking forward to was not, so it was not the College's position that these resolutions had no meaning or that they were not good resolutions, but simply that the content of these resolutions had already given some results in practice. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the agenda, with these notes. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10849	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I am, as you yourself have said in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 121. The Rules of Procedure on Labour 3 of the House of Representatives referred to a resolution which should refer to the withdrawal from the procedure and the introduction of a temporary five-year moratorium on all laws and decisions introducing new and legal privileges of elected officials in the executive and legislative power. Unfortunately, I think that just proposing any laws, and not only their amendment to the rights and duties of members of the parliamentary situation in the economic situation as we have, when the practical budget for this year is not at all ahead of us, in a situation when and in the Federation as a major BH entity, we obviously enter into a crisis of the government, when all statistics say that every third in Bosnia and Herzegovina lives in fear of being fired if it is busy with bankruptcy laws that are before the entity parliaments, which obviously introduce us into even greater social tensions, when people who work as example. what miners strike by staying in the mine for 3 days until their pay returns, when foreign direct investment in the past year fell 30% compared to the previous year, when the fighting, fighting population, at least in the Federation has budget incomes, budget allocations less than it was two years ago, idt. etc. We believe that the draft law on monetary incomes and other parliamentary rights that has even appeared in the Parliamentary Assembly should first be withdrawn from any procedure and this parliament should be strongly condemned. Because, unfortunately, such a law was just an insight that, for example, and in the federal parliament prepares the same law as they planned not to go 20 years old but to 15 years of retirement. In fact, today you could read in the means of informing that, I am not familiar with it, because none of our MPs participated, that the Administrative Commission asked the Constitutional Commission to do so yet. It says that there is even one special misunderstanding about what we're getting into. We therefore suggested that we be told from this pay phone that in 5 years we will enter the EU, and that it is said that these laws, which are proposed, are in line with European standards. It is our turn to wait for the people to enter the EU, so that we, too, may go there with our privileges. Here is the principle that we should have European standards of us 42 plus maybe 15 in another home, and that the people wait one 5 years. That's why I think this is something that breaks Parliament's credibility if this law comes before you at all. I would therefore ask you to put this resolution on the agenda today and send a message to the public that what has been done has been done, but that there is clearly a political will to stop such a thing. Otherwise, I want to say that SDP MPs will not participate in any working bodies or groups when discussing any such matters as this law, because we believe that one such resolution will restore citizens' trust, at least 42 of us sitting here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10850	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. The word was answered by a gentleman, and the replica is Mr Zorić, and so is Jovanović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10851	In fact, Mr. Lagumdžija abused this pay phone instead of proposing a agenda item, he held a political watch here on our watch, so he said among other things that the law should be condemned by thinking that those who proposed it should be convicted. Now, that's what one member of the SDP suggested, so no matter what he was for or against, because he's a member of the commission, and the commissions have proposed this law, and I don't see anything wrong with that, especially because the conclusion of this home is that the commission is preparing the same law. And in this house is Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10852	I thank my colleague Zorić. Mr. Jovanović Miloš answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10853	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't mind that MP Lagumdžija has the right to propose a resolution or anything else, but it seems to me that we're on, now I don't know what session it was, maybe it was also the conclusion that it was really more with these party communist symbols that we're not getting, so I'm going to tear this up, this is here publicly that these symbols, I'd be begging you from the presidency means that you return this and that you're not receiving anymore. Thank you more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10854	I thank my colleague Jovanović. For the word for discussion, whether it's a replica or not, we don't have any applications for Mr. Mujkanović's discussion. The replica of Dr. Lagudmžij. I ask you only to these replicas if it is possible to avoid adopting the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10855	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I'm gonna go out for a while now until that circus is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10856	Let me wait until the gentleman gets out. First, Mr. Zorić, I did not give you a political watch, but I spoke to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 3 minutes, explained the agenda point, and I have the right to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this resolution is indeed a political act of this Parliament where we are not judging Parliament, but condemning the public in general the introduction of any kind of privilege and thus giving us the knowledge of what we are. I also want to tell you that the SDP board member you mentioned did not take part in the vote on this on the Administrative Commission you should see it, and in the future, I repeat again we will not be participating such papers. So 5 did not participate in the vote, although he is a member of the commission. Allow a member of the commission to participate in the work of the commission, and he does not have to bear responsibility for what he disagreed with. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Jovanović, that you here in front of Parliament are trampling a party symbol is, I don't know what to say to you? So you step on for these speakers the party symbol of any party that is the legal parliamentary party in this country, as I think of this party, you may think. But it wouldn't occur to me to step on her symbols here, because it's not really a place to step on anything, let alone party symbols. And if you want to trample on communist symbols and be heroic, go to North Korea and try it there, there's no Communist party here, unless you mean those who in your party with the communist internship have now taken over, in the end of the case of the president of your party, a respected member of the last KCKSKJ.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10857	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr Mujkanović reported on the regular discussion. Suljkanović, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10858	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I propose that, regardless of the large number of points on the agenda, the Council of Ministers report on activities on the construction of the Highway on Corridor V-c. Namely, the Council of Ministers is required at point 4 of the House of Representatives' Conclusions, and on the basis of the Commission's proposal for traffic and communication from 28.10.2003 to inform the House at least every three months about further activities on the construction of the highway to Corridor V-c. We are in a position to obtain information about this highway on Corridor V-c from information funds and I think it is the basic order and given this obligation that the Council of Ministers has today on time for this report to be discussed, because we have reached appropriate conclusions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10859	Thank you. I'd only beg in writing a part of the agenda. Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković came forward for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10860	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I will, of course, comment on, or I will comment a little, but I did not go out, but I will still comment on Mr Lagumdžija's replica, given that he has identified the SDP with the former Alliance of Communists in his discussion and it is obvious that they have inherited some manners, apart from buildings, and some of the long-standing president of Comrade Tito. 6 But, of course, it doesn’t have much to do with today’s debate. What I came out of it is that as a motioner of the Resolution, I accept the suggestion of the College to remove this point from the agenda, i.e. to practically withdraw Resolution, given that and what Mr. Chairman said, the reasons why I am withdrawing it, the reasons why I withdraw it are the root effects that she has already achieved in some way. And the other side conclusions that are now under agenda number 18, which also include part of what is contained in the Resolution. So I accept the suggestion and I take it off, or I withdraw the resolution from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10861	I thank my colleague Novaković for his understanding and subsequent contribution to withdrawing the resolution. Mr. Živković, Dr. Živković, come in. And the replica, Dr. Lagumdžija, I apologize to Dr. Živković for just a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10862	So Mr. Živković is a Bianca Halal in advance so I won't apologize to him. Mr. Novaković, since you didn't mean to talk about me and talk about it again, I won't mention Dragan Kalinić again, it's true that SDP's heritage and anti-fascist, anti-stallistic revolutionary work by another Tito, and I hope that's not an accusation for this speaker. And you should still refrain from talking like a heritage and what party you're having. You are inheriting the work of Radovan Karadžić, who is still somewhere in the woods, so it can't be, can't be caught, so I haven't given you a lecture on this speaker yet, and it would be wise to say a few on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10863	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Dr. Živković picked up the phone. Here you go. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10864	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, although the SNSD Club is behind the resolution he proposed on 7.11.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10865	Please hear from me a little bit, please. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10866	Bearing in mind what the chairman said and the position of the Foreign Affairs Commission, when we proposed this resolution was not the goal of any policy, but of this country and this parliament to play an active role in the remainder of the US force in the framework of SFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Meanwhile, a decision has been made by the U.S. government that they remain at least by the end of this year, so we have enough time to and beyond as the Commission has suggested and we are considering this topic, especially in light of the fact that in May of last year, we had general directions and priorities for implementing foreign policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you remember we have returned this document to work and to this day we did not get it back on this Parliament and we are in front of the Club restarting the agenda point once this country has finally received a document on foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10867	I also thank Dr Živković for his constructive contribution to withdrawing the resolution. Mr Ivo Miro Jović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10868	I thank Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues here today, was saying that one resolution should be placed on the agenda, and that was enough for me to ask for a word and one to speak, expecting that also respected representative Jusufović, President of the Administrative Commission, I believe also not to call it out, but I believe in that sense something to say about the proposal. We, if good memory serves me, made a decision a month or two ago that this high house is in a permanent session. It is a motive to bring as many quality and good laws as possible, which is both our primary goal and our task to bring the legislative area in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the level of European standards and thus show what our path is and where we are going. The proposal made by the working group in front of the Administrative Commission on Rights and Obligations, which is exactly how it may have taken the duties and rights of officials in both Bosnia and Herzegovina's houses, did not appear as a document by accident and not just now. We had it, many here are remembered in two three variants that came at least to the commission level where the members of the Bureau and members of the Council of Ministers, etc., included all that structure where one quality and legally applicable way of these rights and obligations should be regulated. So how are we going to regulate legislation in this country if we don't pass the law on our work? And then the resolution is proposed that it rests for at least five years. So I believe that some think that 2050 would be our place in the European Community. No law has ever experienced such a publication a media lynch like this. He is sensitive to 8 people on social occasions, and surely we must have sensitivity in that part. But look. Instead of being reasoned, it is said that in this proposal, what is here and at the level of our commission, we are returning to completion not a single word, there is no money of value or privilege. And on all sides, it rains and shoots that we here want to be outside the social community, beyond the problems this social community has, to provide ourselves with some vastly Solomon's empire and wealth in vain and abundance, because that's how it represents us as if we're not exactly 42 people here. Well, I guess when and if you throw yourself at one of these homes, then that's what I'm thinking about all of us who are here, not selectively to some people and conditionally to some parties. I am here and I want to be a representative of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Being on behalf of one party, that's a whole other thing. So I suggest that something that didn't even come into the procedure we don't take positions and special points, we don't waste time, not necessarily resolutions. But come on, let's make the most quality proposal, and also this area why we don't regulate, and then everyone will have opportunities like any other law to make their comments, suggestions, amendments, etc. Here in this spirit, and in this sense, I would suggest that we do not crack resolutions, mainly not on five-year delays, and that we do not prevent people from regulating an important area in the most qualitative way. So let's make it possible for these people to come to a court-wide public, so why don't we tell the media, no matter what he did, what he did to make a quality law and regulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10869	I thank my colleague Jović. I would ask future debaters to keep their business opportunities on the agenda for up to three minutes. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović called for the word, and then Mrs Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10870	Dear Members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members,
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10871	Please, let's hear it without Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10872	Let me first of all as an economist sitting here in this House say something. The parliament held a few hours in the last session, which took several hours to discuss the current economic social situation in BiH, while focusing specifically on stimulating domestic production. I assume that at the next, or at one of the next sessions, this parliament will probably discuss several hours of the draft budget for this year, i.e. the financing budget, including state institutions. 9 Given the current debate on the agenda, which has exceeded the usual debate on the agenda, I propose, of course, by agreeing with the College's proposal to put both the resolution and the draft legislation that we have already discussed today on the agenda for the next, or one of the next sessions, but only with the draft budget and the proposal for a debate on the current economic social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but not with a specific focus on stimulating domestic production, but perhaps with a specific focus on the possibility of funding at all state institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to remind you that in the last few days, we have witnessed heated debates and in the Council of Ministers and in general about funding both existing and new state institutions that are emerging from this process of economic and other reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or are due to take place. We are already facing the problem that we cannot finance something that is imperative in the way of total reforms and the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards European integration. In this regard, as an economist, I appeal to any proposal that is more politicised here whether it is the rights and duties of Members in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which may be referred to as privileges, or resolutions on stopping any privilege, to bring this as mature people at this time in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of an economic situation, or an economic social situation. Let the ministry of the vault come to us with a precise quantification of whether, for example, such a bill can finance how the Ministry of Treasury, or the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina or entity budgets, or how much such a law would apply, what does that mean in terms of maybe reducing some other items and what are those items? I would like to remind you that every other debate of this kind will go into politicisation and we will have one abnormal situation both in the work of this Parliament and in creating an environment for the work of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10873	I thank Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović. Ljiljana Milićević has her word for it. He's giving up. Thank you very much. Mr. Muhamed Altić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10874	I am taking this opportunity, because I may not get a chance to say anything soon about what Dr Lagumdžija was talking about. In front of the Club of Members of the Croatian Initiative, Party of Pensioners, Retired People and Independent MP Dr Sead Avdić, I propose, or demand, because this is what the party asked me to withdraw the Law on the Rights and Obligations of MPs from the procedure. 10 The Law is not an appropriate time. Today, we are in a very difficult economic and social situation, and we are now going to pass a law that before me has now told a respected colleague, Jović, that this law does not give any privileges to MPs. I don't know if he's read it to the end, that law gives great privileges over pensioners. Take a look at the items and articles where MPs need to retire, which are accessories, so you will see that these are great privileges. And why should we messengers separate ourselves from the people whose representative we are? The people chose us, and we did not choose the people. I think I've found myself in a very awkward situation in Bihac, and also in Sarajevo where I'm invited to pauses of the Association of People of Pensioners, pensioners of the Federation to protest this passing of the law, because you realize that today, pensioners cannot, 60% of pensioners can't provide naked existence, and we're passing the law and we're getting greater privileges. I'm not saying that there are no positive things in that law, but there's a lot of things that aren't appropriate this time. Therefore, the pensioners are preparing to come before this congregation, asking us all who we represent? Do we represent the people, or do we represent ourselves? So let us not allow this law to come into practice, for we will meet in a very difficult and serious situation. The club of MPs in front of me will not vote for such a law, and I ask you all and myself whether we are obliged to take care of our people and not just our own personal interests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10875	I thank my colleague Muhamed. I'm asking you to discuss the agenda. Today's law is not the point of the agenda. So I'm asking you to take the time to discuss the agenda. The law is not the point of today's agenda. There's no need to sue the download if the law isn't in the agenda. So, who's still answering for the word? Replica Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10876	It is quite understandable and clear that in this country and how there is social security, I must say misery. And I want and I want to have an extraordinary understanding of the position of these people. This law that's here today, probably thanks to these structures, and that it's so exploited in the media, when it's not in the process yet, it's not about the law that's in the process. I'm asking it first. So it's a working version of a group that was supposed to build a starting base, and I've been talking and I want to tell you again, we need to deal with this problem legally, and whether these solutions are going to be the ones that are being offered, so that's the time ahead. But let's not stop making such a law. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10877	I thank my colleague, Ivo Miri Jović. Who's next to the word? Dr. Sead Avdić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10878	I'll take the agenda. We can't even ignore public change. So the fundamental dimension of each policy is public change, and public change has a negative definition according to this draft law or according to this bill. Which means ignoring what's happening in the press and in the media, ignoring what's simply on the street and in the charter of stories is absolutely unacceptable in this home. So I propose that we put an end to the agenda, as well as in the context of what counterpart Hadžiahmetović suggested under this point on the difficult economic social situation, i.e. the proposal that the proposal could be discussed together, i.e. information from the Administrative Commission on the situation, i.e. the reconstruction of the original draft law and can normally be discussed also on this SDP resolution. So we can't even ignore what's going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're not observing and simply what's going on on in the Administrative Commission I don't think it can. Yesterday, the Administrative Commission had its meeting at four o'clock, we have no information, says the bill is withdrawing to completion, etc. etc. It means at least information to get it from the Administrative Commission. So once again, I propose that, within the context of the mentioned agenda within the point of economic and social status, both simple and information from the Administrative Commission, i.e. the state of the law which, however, is fellow Jović in the procedure, you would like to admit it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10879	I thank Dr. Avdić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we had in the debate, I would like to inform you that the 16th item of the agenda – the Joint Commission report, please a little silence on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Insurance Agency Act in BiH, I would like to inform you that the Commission has not held a meeting, that this alignment will probably be completed by the next session and that the 16th item of the agenda would be removed from the agenda of the 28th session. And here are the 19th and 20th points of resolutions that were withdrawn both Dr. Živković and Mr. Novaković withdrew their resolutions, so the 17th point would be 16, 18 would become 17th and so on. So the 16th, 19th and 20th points of the agenda are excluded. 12 I also ask this home to declare ourselves therefore on the position of the College that the resolution offered by Dr Lagumdžija is therefore going into the procedure of the competent commission and thus becomes the point of the agenda when we get the position of the competent commission and I would like to declare that position, because it is the only way we can accept the agenda. Who's in favour of supporting the College's position? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So 1 abstention and 1 v. I find that most of the votes have adopted the College's view that this resolution is being considered in the joint commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted the agenda. I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10880	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10881	But you see that, I understand Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović then suggested at some next session when a report on the state of economic social and together was prepared, yes, to be together. So it's going to be one of the points at the next session, not today, because that's not a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10882	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10883	That's your proposal, Sejo, not Azrin. Please, who is for this proposal by Dr. Sejo Avdić? Oh, it's not ready, it's got to be prepared, people, it's not. Not today, yes, Sejo is looking for the 17th point today. Please, who's to raise a hand? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Give me the report. Of the 34 present, 11 for, 9 was against, abstention 11. So no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We've adopted the agenda. I'll read it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10884	Mr. Špirić, your conclusion is that the resolution I have proposed goes into committee procedure. That's not controversial. However, this club proposed - one of the 13 proposals was to include point 1 of this resolution in the agenda, call it whatever you want, the conclusion to include the agenda point – the conclusion on the withdrawal from the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. It was one of the modes that was proposed. And the other one was a modality that was consistent with what my colleague Azra was saying. So I would ask you now to make a statement on the item of the agenda called – Proposal for a conclusion on the withdrawal from the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Rights and responsibilities. It went to the board, my resolution is wider than this. But there was a proposal here for this speaker just the conclusion that this is out of the process. I ask you to make a statement about this placement, those points so formalized on the agenda. And back off, there's no problem. As is the proposal of a gentleman in front of the Joint Club three MPs. So we'd have to put that on if you wanted to respect the Rules of Procedure. You can not put it, there is no problem, because once again when we discuss point 17 of the current social situation, I will suggest this same conclusion again and propose it until someone gets tired of it, or until you refuse and we say increase.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10885	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking you ladies and gentlemen to help me run a neat session. It's no problem to complicate things if anyone wants to, but everything has a democratic way out. I have the only item of the new agenda written by Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović. We have also concluded our debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10886	I apologize, first of all to you, Mr. Chairman, I failed to respond immediately after you published the results of the vote on Mr. Avdić's proposal. Mr Avdić's proposal passed in general in a general parliamentary statement. Of the 34 MPs, 11.9 voted against, 11 were abstentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10887	It was more against it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10888	Please, nice. Since those who are abstentions do not enter the final sum of the results of the vote, those who are present are counted on the condition that we have the quorum, and the quorum we have 11 was for, the 9 was against. The conclusion was therefore reached, the conclusion was reached, a proposal for inclusion in the agenda was given parliamentary support. You need to continue your statement on the entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10889	I thank my colleague Džaferović for his suggestion. Please, I have my doubts about the count vote. We repeat the vote. Who's in favor of putting in a dot and asking the counters, if I count 12 and you count 9, I count 12 from here, and you're 9, something's wrong with the count. Who's in favor of accepting Mr. Avdić's agenda? Who's against it? If this is 9, I'm not Nikola Špirić. Please be careful with the counters. Who's being held back? Give me the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10890	It was right for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10891	It wasn't right. Don't. For 11, versus 17 and abstention 4. No agenda point accepted. Please, I am publishing the agenda that we are and we just need to make clear on the agenda point proposed by Mr Mehmed Suljkanović - the Council of Ministers report on the activities of the highway construction on Corridor V-c. That was the point, the written proposal. Who's in favor of taking this point? Who's against it? Abstained? So ladies and gentlemen of 33, for 29, v. 6, abstention 4. We've got most of it. We're going to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? Who's from Republika Srpska for? 14 from the Federation for, 8 from Republika Srpska. 15 I find that this is the last item of the agenda and thus the agenda is adopted into so the agenda is 1. Journal of the 26th and 27th Sessions of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act, 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MP Munib Jusufović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Achievements, 8 / 8 Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 10. Proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment (first reading) 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH (First Reading) 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the administrative procedure law (first reading) 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading) 14. Law on Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 5 / 15 Report by the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Freedom of Faith and the Legal Position of Churches and Religious Communities in BiH, 16. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the issue – The current economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the protection of domestic production, 18. Giving consent to ratification (a) Contract on the international occasional transport of passengers to ordinary and passenger buses – INTERBUS Treaty, (b) Tampere Convention on the provision of telecommunications resources for disaster mitigation and rescue and assistance operations, (c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on trade and economic co-operation 16 19. Council of Ministers' report on the activities of the highway construction on Corridor V-c. I ask the Service to prepare a revised agenda, and we continue to work and move on to the first item of the agenda. It's Ad. 1. Parliament issues, I'm sorry, I agree with Dr Lagumdžija, so last item of the agenda, I ask the Office to inform the Council of Ministers that we should file a report on the information of Corridor V-c on the 19th point. Thank you very much. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's ad.1. Records from 26th and 27th session of the House of Representatives I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? No, nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. Who's in favour of adopting the minutes of the 26th and 27th Sessions of the House of Representatives? Who's asking you to vote? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I understand that the minutes of the 26th and 27th sessions were unanimously adopted. We move on to the second item of the agenda, these are parliamentary questions and answers Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers The questions asked at the 22nd session were answered by Muhamed Moranjkić, Šefik Džaferović, Selim Bešlagić, Nikola Špirić and Mirsad Ćeman. Petar Kunić received an answer to the question asked to the 23rd session. Ivo Miro Jović received an answer to two questions from the 26th session and Vinko Zorić was asked at the 26th session. Ladies and if he wants to comment on the answers to the questions he's given who's answering? Mr. Moranjkić and Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10892	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. colleagues and MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I've finally got, here's to skipping the delivery of 2-3 so there's no answer, so it's been half a year, so age, so I get some, here's the answer to these two questions. 17 The first issue referred to internal debts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what I got was read alone, I didn't mean it. I talked to two doctors in economic sciences, and they couldn't explain the answer I got to ask. In the first part he says, please listen that the internal debts and he listed four categories are up to 10% of gross national products, i.e. 1.2 billion KM. Let's say that's true, and I'm 100% saying it's not true, because let's say I have an answer from a few days ago official from the BiH Foreign Ministry that it's 2.8 to 3 billion. So it's not a reason 5 and 10%, it's 120 to 150%, and I have other data that says they're over 3. But it continues in response to further lakordia, and it is said that as part of the activities of resolving old obligations at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Office for Auditing and Financial Business of Bosnia and Herzegovina established the following situation, it lists four categories, so it said that the revised commitments, that they are disputed obligations, that they are potential obligations or litigation and that they are claims from budgetary users. And there goes the comment and the figures that are 3 million and 120, or 102 thousand and something KM. The first question is, what are these old obligations, where they come from and where they end and where they are... If I turn the logic off, and I say let's say that that's the difference between a billion and a 200, and this 300 means that 900 doesn't add up to me again. It means it's a lot easier than the answer here. When it comes to this fifth, or fourth category of claim, they are not even mentioned in the reply. None of those claims, nor when they arrived, nor whether they would return. Furthermore, what I asked for in response, with special aim is – does anyone know if anyone has a program, have any thoughts on how internal debts will be resolved? There's not a single word in the response to white, which means this first part doesn't match the hard 100% real state of internal debt and not a little bit, but over 150%, and in the other part it's not about... So I think that answer is not adequate, it's not right. The second question I asked was two or three months ago, and the same is unfortunately ahead of the turn of the revolution in this country, and in time that someone understood my question of the state of agriculture in agricultural production and at the end of the impact of the contract that should have been applied might not have come into the situation that we came into. The answer to this again is extremely difficult, it's practically inconclusive in the word. The core of my question was whether, if it will, what measures would be taken by this state, or entities, if we let them go there, and we say that they are in the jurisdiction, or the entity's task to help and protect the country's agricultural production. Please, the answer among other things says that it's not that it's not when it comes to agricultural exports, that it's not at all this country, but it's a matter of manufacturing producers of agricultural companies working on it. Well, that's a lot of people. If that 18 is not a matter of this country, then I wonder what the country's thing is about such a life problem as agriculture in this country when it comes to exports, there is no job nor job. I would not continue to comment, but I would conclude that I have asked the current and time question of importance and life for this country, and if I had received an inadequate, unsatisfactory answer again, including the first and second question, I would ask Mr. Prime Minister, who is not here, but to pass it on to him with a record, or otherwise to try to seriousise the Council of Ministers, because that either does not answer the parliamentary questions, or gives inadequate and inadequate answers not to say even unserious ones, perhaps it would be a big word that I would say for this national speaker. Sometimes there's a question about how long? I wonder myself? And you often wonder about this speaker and what the questions that he asks us are for, and we get these answers. That's a real shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10893	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Vinko Zorić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10894	I thank Mr. Chairman, here I have to comment on the answer and I have to commend the chairman, I don't know who else to, that I finally got an answer to one question. I've been asking at least 10 questions, here's Džaferović saying I'm asking the tough questions. The answer is also difficult, since I have received one question from 12 pages, it is quite difficult. I will say that I was in last session, except for the December 29th question, and one of the questions was - was the order signed by Vedran Hadžović, and it was conducted under the number of team and team, from 8.12. in line with the High Representative's decision? And I got an answer from Vedran Hadžović and he says everything's fine. So what else would he say when he signed it? I would like someone else to answer that, because Vedran Hadžović answers, his answer is not long, do not be afraid that I will read it. He says -- about your memo, it's probably a memo from our home from 22.12. I'm giving an answer to the following content. - Given the parliamentary records of HDZ Club members, we found that members of the mentioned club in the section were party membership confirmed by members of the HDZ Party. Based on this fact, we believe that our order under 8.12 is in line with the High Representative's decision. It doesn't matter, because party charts don't have party membership. They don't even have that, because they have data here on current membership and duties. 19 So if we're going to look at it in principle, then that means so far, so until the day we signed it. And I wouldn't be overly politicizing with this thing because the High Representative has signed nicely that I don't know myself, some financial sanctions are sanctioned by HDZ clubs, and then in the BH Parliament, the Federal, Central Bosnia and I don't know where else. It's nice to say HDZ clubs, not HDZ members in some clubs. I was talking about it more widely last time, because I'm surprised Mr. Hadžović didn't check all the charts, maybe there's someone else in some club who's a HDZ member. But that's not what the High Representative ordered. He ordered that they be sanctioned, I don't know, it seems to me with 5% of this HDZ club, and then the parliaments are numbered. I would, or when it comes to the question, I would just look back on one question here that I have asked and I don't know why I don't hear from the Council of Ministers or it's a difficult question as my colleague Džaferović says. So there was one question -- what will the Council of Ministers do to respond positively to the requirements of the Bosniak Alliance of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I really don't know what this is all about, and we don't see how much time in all our media is spent on one law that has entered the procedure and which is a perfectly normal law. I won't talk about material effects, because they'll talk about it when that law comes to our benches. However, our media in Bosnia and Herzegovina did not spend any time saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Bosniak team won third place in the world. I watched sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina on federal television and then it came October, I wish it had come October or had come October in the brackets of October or vice versa and nowhere mentioning that there was a World Cup, and there were seven places in karate, 15 places there in something. I don't know why that is. If I didn't have an extremely good cooperation with a sports alliance that leads people of other nationalities, I'd think it was national. But I'm sure he didn't. But I don't know why one successful sport is ignored in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also represented in the world, which successfully organised the European Championship in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We asked for only one little help so that we could go to these competitions in the world, and here we have success, and we haven't had a single letter answer to our demands, so here's my representative question, and I can see sports passing through that there's no one to talk about here and ask a representative question. So here I said maybe more than I thought. I resent our media, our television that hasn't included that sport in the success review, or maybe it's a failure, but at least at four or five months under various months, it's been mentioned that it's a great success of football that I don't see. Our young and senior team were the fourth, or fifth, in the qualification group, but it is being celebrated in all the media. Here I see and now this Zagreb dinner party has put the football team's menu on the table to choose it in person of the year because it was fourth in the qualification group. Imagine that. So what if he qualified for the European Championship? I think he'd decide here if we were going to have 20 laws on the agenda or not. Because in us are such complex values in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm told by a minister from the Council of Ministers, so it would be answered positively to your question and to your request, but one minister immediately went out in the Daily Avaz and attacked it. Well, my men are where we came from. Shall we ask what media we're going to ask tomorrow what we're going to talk about at the plenary session? I know this is gonna cost me in those media outlets, but I've never been through so well before. They know I don't pay a subscription to federal television, but I have questions as to why I would pay for it. But they don't know that sports bottle sports won third place in the world. I've never heard that on TV. They don't know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10895	I thank my colleague Zorić. Dr. Petar Kunić picked up the phone. I'd only like to, so Ivo Miro Jović. So I would pray that only if we can ask shorter questions avoid needless, no, no, no, so the suggestion is just, and I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10896	Dear Presidency, honourable Members
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10897	And I would ask the Service to invite the MPs from the hall to come in and sit down, we will lose the quorum, and that is not a serious approach to the work of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10898	Thank you. I have to say, for the fourth time, I'm asking this question because I can't get it to the end. I'll be asking a question 20 or 50 times until I get it to the end. Namely, it is about the retirement of people who came from the former Yugoslav republics and vice versa. I received an answer to this question where it is said – Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia have concluded a social insurance agreement as an administrative agreement on the implementation of the social insurance contract. The contract was signed in Zagreb on 4 October 2000, and following the end of the ratification process, both countries enter into force on 1 November 2001. A pension agreement for citizens who have achieved one part of their internship in the Republic of Croatia and one part in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So nothing. In the previous response, a meeting of the joint bodies was held, so the Commission for the Implementation of the Agreement on this, because last time I asked whether a session of those bodies was held. 21 Now I ask the question again - is there a meeting of the competent authorities for the application of the social insurance agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia in the area of pension disability insurance? - whether commissions are formed, for example. A disability commission? - How many cases have been solved? - How much has she solved the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how much has Croatia solved? Because the previous answer said that there were 12,000 items pending, on one side 6 grand. I can't avoid saying that the work of the Council of Ministers is very superficial, he's tough. I'd say irresponsible and irresponsible. This isn't how you answer to an MP. I think this parliament must take its relationship seriously with the Council of Ministers, which is why it is first responsible for the chairman, because such answers should not come to this parliament. The position was not cemented by the Council of Ministers. If she's cemented, then there's no democracy in this House. He's not even on the pier yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10899	I thank Dr. Kunić. We've exhausted our comments on the questions asked. Let's get new questions, Dr. Duraković, Beriz Belkić, Ivo Miro Jović. And I apologize, then, please, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Excuse me, excuse me. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10900	I want to say a total of two sentences about this, about this agenda point that we always have, it's asking parliamentary questions as an important element of Parliament's functioning, not here, but in the world. And the second is a couple of freaks what it is that we get as a result of our questions asked. Well, I condemn a few things to comment on these received answers. So when, only I don't know what the gentlemen in the office will say. Jović has his power, so he is who he is. And I have to criticize. When I ask the prosecutor, then he says, you know, your parliament and your representative. I am a representative of the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is the parliament of all citizens, and when you get from the institution your Parliament and your representative, then he says it is not in the domain of me, and then whose answer is based on it, I have come to know it in my work and that is his...when I say that there is deviation, then he says I do not believe it, and he does not say if he has it please let us explain it. So I don't want to teach our institutions here how to comment with them. Dear MPs, Kunić was now, perhaps he should have said on the lexic side. Yugoslavia is Croatia and Herzegovina with a small letter in one reply too much in one letter. I think you'll see it there. Are we just so illiterate or should we get such an illiterate old man? I don't think we should. 22 When I ask a question to an institution, then I get an answer, you know, it's not about us, it's about that and that. So is that the answer? In particular, if asked a question to the Council of Ministers. I ask a question to the Council of Ministers, it's about one problem, you know, it's not our problem, it's just a federal problem. Instead of forwarding the question and informing me that, I have the right to be and unaccounted for. I say that's my authority, when I get one answer, for example. A facility is being built and says we'll take all the measures, and I've asked UNESCO and OHR as well, here's what they don't answer, let's take people with some other jobs, and I can understand them, but I can't understand the institutions that are in this building not to do anything, and the facility is built in the cemetery. In the center of the cemetery. And we want to be civilized as society and thousands, not thousands, but it is 500 years ago, to be precise then, that cemetery in that place, it hasn't fallen to any man so far and there have been wars and riots, going through governments to build a construction facility in the center of the cemetery. And what was done in the war, so forgive me God, they didn't know what they were doing. But working in peace with these institutions, free us, sir. When it comes to the question, I asked one question how do television subscriptions pay to die? People need to apologize to the dead, or apologize to families, injured persons. Who comes to mind at the morgue watching TV? It's an injury to people's pride, it's addressed. You know it's in general, so I'd say no, not rather provocatively. And when I ask for an answer, then they teach the law and they make my whole law firm and then they send it to me, and the answer is without a signature. It won't scare me. I will continue to use the institution to ask parliamentary questions, because it is my right as a representative and I hope for the well-being of these people, i.e. the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10901	I thank my colleague Jović. Any other comments on the answer? I would beg here, of course I don't mind taking your word, but here you are looking for comments on the answers that were received, and these which we didn't get the mass of MPs were left without an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10902	A little comment on the unaccounted for. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to inform you that I have never received an answer to the question of waste disposal control by international branches present in this country. I want to warn all of you again that this is a very dangerous issue, a very harmful way of editing, or acting outside any law and any control of any body of this country or any body at the lower level of 23 levels of state structure. I demand that that answer be delivered to me before my term of office expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10903	I would like to thank Dr Muratović, please the Service, only to beg from whom you ask an answer to address the question. The organ precisely, I apologize for the service.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10904	I'm asking for an organ that's responsible for the disposal of garbage, that is, environmentals.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10905	Thank you very much. No more comments. Wait a minute, please. No more. A comment. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. Are you, too, on an unaccounted for comment or on a winning one?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10906	Dear colleagues, I also have a comment on several outstanding issues, i.e. no longer received answers since I have not received an answer to any of the questions I have asked in this mandate. Even to some who seemed quite as simple as they were last time, the simple answer should be like last time, when I asked for the commission's composition, I don't know exactly what it's called, but I know that for national monuments and I know that it's asked for answers to how many cases it's solved, whose demands, how many requests it hasn't solved and what applicant's demands. I didn't get that either. I didn't even get an answer to the question about... (poligon Barbara) which I understand is a little problematic. Let me figure out why I didn't get it, 'cause I've been asking him for three years, that question. So I didn't even get an answer to the question of what was the fate of the objects owned by Srbin, whose last administrative decision was actually attached to the Federation by the arbitration decision to the Federation. I didn't get an answer either because it looks and it's hard. I would ask that the Council of Ministers give me any answer, and even the answer that can't give me an answer for these and those reasons, because I may, I understand that the Council of Ministers does not want to answer the institution that I ask, through the Council of Ministers. But then he needs the Council of Ministers to say he doesn't want to, or he didn't get an answer from the federal ministry, I don't know any commissions, either. etc. I once again ask the Service, if it is possible that all the questions I have already asked are referred to the Council of Ministers with a request to give me an answer. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10907	I thank my colleague Novaković. A comment on the response received is Mr. Džaferović, the deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10908	Dear colleagues, we do not have to go out for a pay phone every time we are dissatisfied with the answer to the question. I'm going out for a pay phone to say that I'm satisfied with the answer to my asked question and I want to inform the public of the answer I received. My question, I think it's interesting, my question was – when will finally start and when will the work on rebuilding the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina – skyscrapers and squares ahead be completed. I got an answer to that question and I want you to know that the answer is that the expected deadline for the main project is 1.3.2004, so the work is under way, preparatory work for when the call for tendering for the selection of construction contractors is planned. Works on the recovery and reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina's III institutions are scheduled to begin in the fourth month of 2004 and last until about 30.9.2005. I think this is important information that the media and everyone should know because this building, this facility right here and this plateau, I think it's in the interest of all of us to look what they're supposed to look like as soon as possible. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10909	I thank my colleague Džaferović. We're moving on to asking, we've got a little time left to ask new questions. It seems to me that we've spent more time expressing dissatisfaction with the arrangements we've received, and here's a pleasure. Dr. Nijaz Duraković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10910	Before I ask this question, allow me one comment that is on the back of all this that fellow MPs have been saying before. In fact, it would be my suggestion that we still consider today how to make the right decision of a business, or of another institution, and to seriousise this institution that this parliamentary, parliamentary question. Just a brief comment that I'm not bothering you. 25 In the practice of former FNRJ, SFRY, etc. I think Kardelj took it from the British Parliament, tradition, it was also called the same former parliamentary, and then delegately, and then later a representative or one or another question. In fact, the chairman of a British Parliament's home is, let's say, Špirić is a speaker and questions are raised at each session. It is Speaker who determines whether the issue will be accepted, forwarded to the competent authorities of the institution or not. The first question must be asked in due time, the second one must be properly addressed, so that we do not ask about the environment of the Minister of Culture etc. Thirdly, the question alone must not involve demeaning, insulting, etc. The answer to the question itself must not mean the giving of state or military secrets, and there is everything. But that's why iron and tradition, as well as a legal obligation for one to whom you have referred the question to to has no say to provide you with an answer within two weeks, otherwise the government and the competent ministry and everything else will fly. Let him forgive our council of ministers, we chose them, they act like we're their exposure, not ours, and that's an absolute irresponsibility. I mean, the point is, this is our question. So I suggest we do something about it, because otherwise it doesn't make sense. They're all asking us from the field a lot of capital stuff. They simply task us to launch something initiative, and let's say I'm now going to ask the question that was raised here several months ago that was never answered. In fact, several months ago, Parliamentarian Suljkanović asked a question about the project called "The Upper Horizon", and of course we have not received an answer so far. And I'm going to tell you that this is about one of the perhaps most significant problems facing the state in the last of the war here. Namely, it is about the translation of water from Nevesinjski, Dabarski and Fatnička polje into the Bilečko lake and Trebišnic. This threatens the biggest ecological disaster, because it would be directly threatened, not only by water, but also by the flow of the river Bregava, Bune, Bune, Krupa and survival of at least a thousand springs, living springs, on the move from Berković through Ljubinj, Stoc, Poklata, Dubravska visorna, Blagaja, Domanović, Capljina, Mostar, all the way to Glavatičev near Konjic. That's what all measuring experts say and everyone warns. The other day on our shame, this association of environmentalists is speaking European etc. Nobody's going to comment on anything. On the contrary, a project past the law, beyond any inter-entity agreement, even under international law, water cannot be implemented from one spill to another. We've got a real one, and it's already been built for over 20 kilometers, and it's a dubious English capital. Now what is it, according to all the assessments of the professional, expert team, he has no national connotations and will be equally threatened and, say, Srbin in Ljubinj, where 100%, who receive water with a source... as will be threatened by both Hrvat and Bošnjak etc. On the whole move, who knows that part of Berkovic over Stoc, and then from Neum, here, the Chaplin plum, all the way to Mostar, Blagaj and beyond. So it's about an incredibly large project that has inconceivable consequences for at least 100,000 people, at least. It will be absolutely existential 26 at risk. You know what it means in that junk when it drys a thousand hot, at least a thousand. And no one will, I don't know who to ask now. I address the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH, so let them prepare, but I want some metric response. Me and you here. So the government of Republika Srpska, if they do not know, let them ask whom they will. It's one of those capital projects that has inconceivable consequences, that's what experts say, not me. Here I have in writing here.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10911	Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Please. Mrs. Milićević is correcting the wrong allegations, and then Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10912	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I am pleased that Mr. Duraković has again updated this issue, not the upper horizons, but the tunnel from the Fatic field to Bileca, and the upper horizons are the system of power plants that should be working upstairs. I just want to tell you, since it is a particular region where I live, unlike Mr. Duraković, and where I drink from. Let me explain some things to you and I insist that we get it in writing once more. It's a tunnel whose breakthrough began in '80 and some years, and so what happened was a mole and it worked. It is a project that neither Republika Srpska nor the Federation nor the former Yugoslavia. It is a feasibility study that was done in the way the feasibility studies for bridge power plants were done, for the power plant, and I am also now aware of the consequences that Bileca and Trebinje have on the climate of the lake. I say that to myself at the time it wasn't fashionable to look like the preservation of the human environment, so our studies that were done for such objects didn't mean that moment. It is normal that as an MP from that region, I reacted the first time Mr. Suljkanović asked a question, because this water is used by the municipality of Berkovići, Bileca, we all use it. It should solve the problem of the Dabar field, which is one of the larger and which should be our grainhouse in Herzegovina, which is always underwater. It's underwater now, it's underwater by May of the month. I mean, so now we have to sign that because of that, there might be water somewhere that we should swim. Because that's where people can't even hair. I mean, they can't get into the field. I want to say that the measures taken by the Government of Republika Srpska and the Ministry, of course, have joined the search, inquiry and search for what will complete the study, although there are only 15% of the tunnels left to break through. The study, therefore, whether it will be one feasibility study with a view to the ecological moment of water endangerment, sources and others. So make sure it's done and the paperwork is complete, and I mean it means that the most important thing is that this isn't a project 27 of yesterday and that it's not a precedent and that a project was done before it didn't involve it. And this study will be complete and will contain everything. When I came out, I just wanted to, and since I've usually answered my word to suggest on the background of what the predecessors said, it might be a good idea that we don't have to take every session of questions and answers on this part, someone here has suggested that we introduce an institution of the Parliament's hour. Maybe think about the plan and the work programme for this year about one of those ways. So let's be thematic, so let's focus on these questions and answers. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10913	I thank Ljilja Milićević. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10914	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'll take it very briefly because we've lost a lot of time. So the first question to the College, and if there is no College of Information, then for the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina – has the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Council of Ministers delivered to the College of the House of Representatives the completed document Security Policy in accordance with the conclusion of this House since 7.8 and if it is not? I won't explain it, because you know what this is about. And the next parliamentary issue, it's for the Council of Ministers -- what about the new draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's tv service? What is the European norm in this area, and at what stage is the process of winding down RTV BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10915	I thank my colleague Belkić for his effective approach to asking questions. Ivo Miro Jović answered the word. Did you want to? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10916	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs, a few months ago, and I think it's more than eight to nine months ago, I asked a question I never got an answer to, and to repeat again, I won't, then I'll try something else. And what prompted me to do so, there are several billion in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia, stressing the country's billion-dollar assets of legal and physical persons named Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a sublawful reconstruction of the property of this state, this country called Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why in the process of legalizing her certain circles, I dare say for this speaker criminally inclined to use that vacuum and that property there. They use either 28 without compensation or there ruthlessly destroying it or alienating it completely. Given that it is the property of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I then asked the question, I ask and now -- who will take care of the property and solve the problem of the property called Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Will this be handled by a special agency at the level of the state to protect that property? - Is that going to work out, and then I said that I can't and now I'm saying, the commission that was already set up to resolve the succession of ex Yugoslavia's assets, which was already completed 2.2.5 years ago, and it is now in a state of rest? The task has never been given even though it's a little bit and natural and... Furthermore, whether the Council of Ministers or anyone else in this country will solve where privatisation agencies cannot solve and will never solve this problem, because this property has since
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10917	I'd like to ask Mr. Moranjkić, I'd like to ask the question, if you're not giving the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10918	Here, I have to give an explanation for the complete
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10919	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10920	I have to give an explanation because it's referred to the Privatisation Resolution Agency. This property has never gone away, I apologize, they stand by and uses it today, and I ask the question – will this country solve this problem and inform me, or this Parliament and the public that it will solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10921	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Zorić Vinko picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10922	I thank Mr. Chairman. I have one question - What is meant to be done in order for the border crossings to be illuminated, cleaned and to give basic information to the person entering Bosnia and Herzegovina in the country where he entered? The question is, I've put it in note... to begin with refers only to interstate, or international transitions. I say when I walk in from the Imotski direction towards the Gruds in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't even see the information as far as Sarajevo is concerned. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10923	You think you're in Croatia?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10924	And then, I think that some basic data through these tables should show at least how far to Sarajevo, to Zenica, to Mostar, to larger cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at every interstate crossing, and that these crossings should be cleaned up and lit up because every little bit in the paper I read will be the right border crossings. The border crossing cannot be made. You can build buildings, you can make different pillars, etc. There's a border crossing. So here I am asking the Council of Ministers to tell me when at least basic things will be done, lit up, cleaned up, written down some information, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10925	There'll be a transition.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10926	Transitions exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10927	I thank Mr. Zorić. I apologize for the intrusion. Mr. Lozančić pa Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10928	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen, the reason for my release is to ask the issue of security in the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This point was often on the agendas of both the governments of the county, the entities, and in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in many hours spent and the replicas we came to certain conclusions so that we also had conclusions here, but they were not largely carried out, so terrorist attacks on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina continued continuously and lost the lives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their property died. I must single out and highlight the example five years ago when the professional prime minister of the time, Mr. Jozo Leotar, whose murder has not been lit up to this day, the perpetrators have not been found. I think then it was time for a general action of state institutions and states to prevent as much as it did and try to contain the terror that is ruling in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that this has not been done, the impression is that it has encouraged the perpetrators and, by my free assessment since then, up to today, about 100 terrorist actions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been carried out in which lives have been killed and the lives taken and mainly the perpetrators have not been found. We know that in our neighbouring environment and in all countries, more Yugoslavia was affected by the war, and that forces tended to terror, but we also know how the state acted when it was similar in our neighborhood and in some ways the terrorists and assassins of 30 brought some justice and most likely did not root out, but in some ways it contributed to the repression of terror. This leads to very little or nothing being done at least what I know, or what we read, so my question is addressed to the Minister of Security. I have two questions. The first question is – What does the Minister of Security do to ensure that if not 100% sure, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are at least more secure than the previous period in the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And secondly, when will they discover the employer and the perpetrators of the murder of Prime Minister Joza Leotar and 14 returnees to Travnik? I wish this was an oral response here that the minister in some way encouraged us from this pay phone to tell us what stage or when it comes to equipment and what stage are these specific cases when it comes to disclosure? I wish it was oral because I rarely ask questions. A year ago I asked a question and no one ever joked on him to write me anything, any answer negative or positive.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10929	I thank my colleague Lozančić. A colleague, Novaković, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10930	My colleagues and colleagues, my question is what is the national structure of employees, and what is the signatories at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Public TV Service?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10931	Thank you, fellow Novaković, for the expeditional question. kolegica Milićević chooses to ask a question. Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10932	I will remind you once again that here is more than a year I haven't received an answer to the question since 13 January 2003. But I reminded myself of it once or twice again, and this should be another appeal to get an answer. And for today, I have three questions. First of all, I also remind myself that I am asking questions just as the reactions of the citizens that we have heard and from other colleagues have the feeling that they can influence us to solve these issues. In this sense, my first question is 31 - As long as bilateral negotiations have arrived, negotiations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries, especially with the Republic of Croatia and other countries created by the SFRY's resolution on the inauguration of property legal relations, and what seems to be speeding up this process? In fact, citizens are increasingly complaining about the problems they have due to the irregularities of such issues between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries. At the same time, I call for the maximum involvement of domestic institutions on the agenda. I expect a written response from the Council of Ministers. The second question - Why is it not resolved, and we are witnessing that some attempt in this direction seems to have been made lately, the issue of an alternative airport for Sarajevo and other airports in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore agreed to the conditions under which the air carrier does not have the obligation to organise alternative passenger transport in the event of flight cancellation or other means of providing passengers who are not able to reach the final destination by their mistake. For example. Sarajevo airport due to fog and so on. just like it happened recently. I was recently on my way to Sarajevo in Vienna, where a group of our citizens from various countries literally spent 24 hours at the airport, and that neither the airline, and she should have, who failed to bring people to their destination, offered them anything but information that was uncertain when she would come. In the meantime, we saw what happened to the wind in Mostar, so problems with landing in Mostar. Here's to not talking about Banja Luka, etc. Therefore, this issue should be resolved and, of course, seen to what extent the competent authorities, although, of course, the matter of airlines and passenger carriers under such conditions agree to use someone's transport services. However, it may be possible, given our circumstances, to influence something in the interests of the citizens. And the third question is - Has the Commission for the Conservation of the National Monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina done so far that the collection of icons and images of sacral character is returned to the Orthodox Church in Tešnja from where it was taken in 2000 without the approval of Bijeljina with the arbitrary decision of Mr. Katavenza, Bishop of the Episcopal of the Episcopal of the Zvorniko-Tuzlanska? This is also an appeal for the support of this home and everyone who can help the collection return to Teshanj. For decades, icons and images of sacral character were collected in Tešnja, and kept in the Orthodox church and protected by the state during the period of aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina '92-'95. In the year, the decision by the municipal authorities of Tešnja was kept in the vault unfinished then by the building of a bank in Tešnja, so that the result of the bombing of this city as well as others, by those who did not care about the protection of cultural religious values and others, would not be destroyed. In the beginning of 2000 the municipality of Tešanj was returned, the municipality of Tešanj, the municipality, the Orthodox church municipality of Tešanj were returned to icons and situated in an almost intact Orthodox church in Tešnja, except that the glass was broken after the shelling. However, without the knowledge and approval of the competent collections has been moved to Bijeljin, reportedly doing 32 restorations and has never been returned to Tešanj where it belongs to the citizens of Orthodox religion, as well as to all citizens of the municipality of Teshanj. So I ask the answer from this committee, and some more information on this in the light of this question is also through the bulletin that has been issued on this important issue. So I see this as a question of culture and tradition, not any politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10933	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Špirić picked up the phone. Let Mr. Blagojević prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests, my first question is, why is it so cold in the O.R. today and I ask the Service to check and make sure the heating is regulated here, because I see that the MPs have started their winter coats to dress? I don't think there's any need for that. I want to ask two questions. You know, or we know that the constitutional obligation of the Presidency is to propose a budget by 15 October of the current year for the following year. We are here on January 21st, we still don't have the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the draft by the Council of Ministers. - Does the Council of Ministers intend, at least if he doesn't want to bear responsibility, to inform this Parliament at which stage the budget is located? Either they ask Parliament to adopt the budget again, as in the world, by procedure, take it or leave it. I want to ask a question and warn that in the regular procedure that we have received the budget today, we can barely have it by the end of April 2004. That's what it says about maximum unseriousness. And the second question - What does the Presidency and the Council of Ministers do when it comes to the organization of the city of Mostar? Is this a Bosnia and Herzegovina town? Does he care about state institutions or just OHR and High Representative? I don't mind getting involved, looking for an optimal solution, but it amazes the care of key state institutions about the status and position of the city of Mostar. - Is the referendum that is inaugurated for the status of municipalities in Mostar also apply to the status of entities within Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10935	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Blagojević answered for the word, and then Mr. Jahić answered. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10936	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, first of all, would refer to Mr. Ćeman's recent discussion, when he said that Mr. Prime Minister, Vasilije, was willing to take certain, certain things from the church to Tešnja. I have to say that these things, thanks to one Catholic priest, I think it's from Zepč, with their attention, because he's all that stuff, one time they've been with him, and since he's concluded that these things would still be best to settle down somewhere safe for a while, those things from the Teshan church, he's put the HVO truck right in Bijeljin. So anyway, the trail of these things knows where they are and they're where they are, so we owe them to us. Thanks to the friendship of Srbin and Hrvat. And now, as for 2000, you know how the Serbian Orthodox Church works. I must also say that I would like to ask a question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because according to this knowledge that we have gone further into the procedure of sending our soldiers to the mission around the world, and it is quite certain that we do not yet have a law that would precisely regulate such a question, and one very serious question, so that I ask it a question to the Council of Ministers - Does the Council of Ministers plan to pass a law that would provide for the sending of our troops and that no authority would appear yet, and we see that the Council of Ministers has such authority that they do, can say by their own means, so that it would be good to take advantage of this commission which is already existing ad hoc commission to reform the armed forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina only use to prepare and adopt such legislation, and that the commission does not allow it to assess how and under what conditions we can send our troops outside the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there would be a problem that there would be one of those citizens who would not be able to do so well in the same kind of publicity, that they would be able to do so much in the problem, but to adopt the rules, which they, which they would be able to do so in the problem in which they do so in order to make the problem in which they in which they, which they would be in which they are to adopt, in which they, and in which they are not, which they, which they, which they are to make to make them, and in which they, and in which they are to make themselves, in order to make them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10938	I thank my colleague Blagojević. Mr. Jahić answered for the word. There are no more reported, but we've exhausted the MP's watch, so I'd like to ask the MPs if they have any interest in leaving it for the next session. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10939	I will also go, and I will be at the back of what my predecessors have said and in the context of an untimely response, so those in charge who need to deliver answers to these questions. Here I am going to repeat a really one question that the SDA Club has been asking on several occasions, and we certainly haven't received an answer, and it seems to me that it would help us in our work, having in particular the controversy that was when we adopted the agenda and this resolution. Therefore, we ask that information be provided, i.e. a review of all the users of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budgets, so individually with an exact level of personal income. Surely this law, which the Administrative Commission has proposed, is therefore not appropriate in my personal opinion, is not an appropriate situation that is happening, i.e. more precisely certain solutions. The fact is, there's a lot of confusion here in this field, a lot of anarchy, and there's a lot of decisions, conclusions in a lot of different places, and I'm sure you should concentrate that on one place. Although this law does not treat pay levels, it does treat other things, etc. It would not be bad, therefore, if this were to happen when such or similar legal solutions were made. Because you'll see there that in individual or individual people, whether the beneficiary of the budget is, so the individual regression is three and a half thousand KM. So we really need to have that one record so we can work easier. And here's to take advantage of the opportunity, so I'm setting up this way of working is the administrative commission, although I wasn't clear here who voted for, who didn't, so as far as I know, the representatives of the SDP in that commission voted for this law. It's only possible that a man might forget that he voted, etc., but the other members say he did, but it doesn't matter now. As far as the second question is concerned, we are constantly objecting to the presence of members of the Council of Ministers here. However, we really need to be correct, so we need to agree on some things. In fact, here, as far as I know, is the Council of Ministers meeting. And indeed, recently, it has been safe in 80% of cases that the same day is held at the same time sessions of our Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I, therefore, appeal this time and ask that responsible people from the Council of Ministers and our colleges agree on the maintenance term of both meetings and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we may have an adequate presence of members of the Council of Ministers. And the third question, so I ask that data be delivered on the national representation and institutions of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, so in governments, public enterprises, administrations, agencies, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10940	Thank you. This concludes the agenda point, the second item of the agenda of parliamentary issues. 35 Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the third item of the Ad agenda. 3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Exchange Act You have received a report on the Effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act. No consent has been reached in the College. I'm putting the bill to the polls in the second round. Who's in? Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Of the 31st, of the 32 present 30, 20 were for, against 11, there were no abstentions. So one didn't vote. I figure we've got most of it. We're going to an entity statement. Who's the Federation against? Who's from Republika Srpska against? So the Federation against it was 0, and Republika Srpska 10 was against it. I therefore find that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Central Record and Data Exchange Act is not accepted. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 4. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure Proposer of the Law is the Council of Ministers. It was submitted to Parliament with a request for consideration in accordance with Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. It was sent to lawmakers on 17 December 2003. I am opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers to discuss this law under procedure 104. Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? No one's answering? I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the request of the Council of Ministers to discuss this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104? Rules of Procedure? Do you mind? Are there no abstentions? There isn't. I therefore conclude that we unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 36 So we move to the fifth item of the agenda. It's Ad. 5. The request of MP Munib Jusufović to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Poslanik Jusufović's Rules of Procedure submitted a bill requiring consideration under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and the proposal was addressed to the MEPs in December 17th 2003. I am opening a debate on Mr. Jusufović's request. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. Who's in favour of accepting Mr. Jusufović's request? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the request of MP Munib Jusufović for the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're moving to six points of the agenda. It's Ad. Six. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure Proposer of the Law is the Council of Ministers. The requirement is to be considered by a reduced procedure under Article 104. It was sent to lawmakers on 20 December 2003. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and we're going to a plea. Who's in favour of supporting the Council of Ministers' request? Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider amendments and amendments to the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. It's Ad. Seven. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure So, the request of the Council of Ministers is that we discuss the procedure of Article 104, and the proposal is addressed to MPs on 30 December 2003. 37 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of accepting this proposal from the Council of Ministers? Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. Have one restrained. I find that, therefore, I agree that with one abstention, we have adopted the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the Review of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. That's Ad.8. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal were submitted by the Council of Ministers with a request to be discussed in a shortened procedure, according to the procedure of 104 members of the Rules of Procedure. So he was sent to the MPs on December 30th last year. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Who's in favor of accepting the Council of Ministers' proposal? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I also find that, with one vote abstentioned and others, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad. Nine. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know, this legislative proposal has been in parliamentary procedure since June 2003. At the 20th session on 13 October 2003, the Law was adopted in the first reading with the conclusion that amendments could be submitted by 20 October 2003. At the 21st session of 23.10.2003, the deadline for submission of amendments was extended by 10 days. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a new report to the MPs at the 22nd session. At the 23rd session, Dom formed a temporary commission with the task of proposing within 20 days to the House a solution to the adoption of the Law on conflict of interest. The interim commission submitted a report sent to you on January 19th. 38 The Interim Commission has adopted 6 amendments as you have seen. I must tell you that in the meantime we have also received suggestions from the OHR Office regarding the views and, of course, the Electoral Commission regarding the agreed text within the provisional commission. You both got to the MPs' benches. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10941	I probably won't make any special contribution, but respecting the following facts report of this ad hoc formed temporary commission we got almost immediately before the beginning of the session. In the meantime, we received a letter from one of the members of this task force who in some way questioned what was proposed by this task force and received a letter from the OHR Office. So, we just haven't been able, at least I haven't been able to, I believe, and most of you to act, because it was only possible to act amendmentically in practice. And I suggest that in some way a plea, we finally leave the plea for the next session no, let's try to study this and see what this is about. We've been involved enough with the owl, I believe we've broken a lot of things that are business, but it's very hard to say now. I don't know what the College thinks, so the fact is we got a report late. Because if we hadn't received a late report, maybe we could have an amendment to what's unchanged, and we got these documents that I'm talking about later in the morning. If possible, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10942	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible right now, just a little if I can, I think we could find a compromise by saying that this law, amendments and additions to the law will be proposed in the debate of the House of Peoples. To accept this provisional commission's report and, of course, to accept these two OHR suggestions, so Amendment IV and Amendment VI, it seems to me that we could make the necessary compromise there. I think the same suggestions of the Election Commission and the OHR Office are so that we- My suggestion is that we finish this job today. He's been in the process too long. We won't have the ideal law, we won't have the ideal changes. It remains in the House of Peoples that if there's anything that can improve us to reconciling the texts. So yes, my view is that this ad hoc commission was doing well, it wasn't a waste of Parliament's work, we've left time, but it seems to me it's time and to accept the correct OHR suggestions to have a law that will be able to apply the Permanent Election Commission. 39 So that would be my suggestion if we could definitely end up in this home today. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10943	I only went out, unfortunately because of other obligations I did not participate in the work of this commission when it agreed, but I see that an attempt has been made and an effort to get out of this very confusing situation. The fact that we now have a re-announce from the Office of the High Representative as well as from the Election Commission, of course even more in a way this one holds me to say uncertainly, but I just came out to say procedurally we don't actually have the option to set ourselves up differently now, except to make a statement about the report as such because no one has submitted amendments to the new one on this report. That's all, Mr. Chairman, so we need to resolve this procedural dilemma if it exists for someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10944	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can, it's no problem that we, on behalf of the College of this OHR Amendment, propose as our amendments, and that means, so we can take a break if that, but I think we're taking a needless break, we're making it unnecessary, because you have the OHR text. So the Commission's report is accepted except for Amendments IV and VI, and instead we accept the position so the same text of the law remains. So here, I beg you, a stenogram will be recorded. There's no need for a break. So you have both material. You have a report from the interim commission and the OHR's position where it says no, the Election Commission, where it says it disagrees with Amendments IV and VI, that it disrupts the structure of the law. So here's what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10945	Wait, wait. Lydia Election Commission and OHR are different. Election commission. Wait a minute. Election Commission contests amendment that, no, no
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10946	Please, nice. Then I can do this, and this proposal by Mr. Belkić, that today, I don't just know if we can do business. Wait a minute, can we businessly postpone the statement of this law, if that's the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10947	It has already become a mandatory item of the agenda. I don't know how many times we've had her 40.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10948	Yeah. Can we continue here? Not even a break. I appreciate it not even taking a break. So, please, for the next session, if we were to extend 10 days to get out, we have, so this morning, we received a letter from the OHR, or yesterday, a report from the Election Commission a few days ago. We need to bring these texts together, see what we can do. I suggest that by the next session, this job is done and done. I think we can end it this way best not to rush now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10949	To authorise the College to invest, given the OHR letter, the Election Commission to make a single proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10950	Let's see what he's up to.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10951	to make a single proposal for Parliament to vote on it. There you go, College.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10952	The MPs are right. Of course. Please accept this position if. Here you go. No, no. I think this is the most complete solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10953	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't see any reason to rush this important issue in five minutes that we've been doing since July and commissionally trying to establish. I came out to say that the amendment number VI Mr. Špirić says came from OHR to propose it, actually in front of the OHR is only part of that amendment disputed. So he's not controversial about the Labour Act and other regulations where he's allowed to get half the employee's salary under entity labour laws. But there is also a sentence added in Amendment VI that is not controversial. It's also not a questionable addition to the science. So that amendment if we invested as Mr Špirić said these good changes in this amendment VI would be annulled. That's why it would be a good idea to take a good look at it one more time and get the commission to propose it. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10954	Thank you. We also suggested that we prepare this for the next session. Who's up for it? Who's up for this proposal? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we have unanimously moved this point to agree these amendments and suggestions that we have received from the Standing Election Commission for the next, to be a mandatory point at the next session. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. That's Ad.10. The proposal for a law on the production of arms and military equipment (first reading) is proposed by the Council of Ministers. At the 26th session of December, the House adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposed law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the draft law on 16 December 2003. The responsible joint commission of both homes for defence and security policy. We received a report from the committee responsible on 5 January 2004. It was sent to the MPs. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for us to accept, therefore, the proposal for a law on the production of weapons and military equipment in the first reading? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the proposal for a law on the production of weapons and military equipment was accepted in the first reading. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. It's Ad. 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH in the first reading is proposed by the Council of Ministers. The 26th session also adopted a proposal for a legislative proposal to be considered under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 26 December. The Constitutional and Legal Commission and the committee responsible is also the committee responsible for examining this law. The committee's report was sent to lawmakers on 8 January 2004. 42 Opening debate on the 11th item of the agenda? Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the application of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? So with one vote abstentioned and others for, we adopted the Bill's proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH in the first reading. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. That's Ad.12. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on administrative procedure (first reading) is proposed by the Council of Ministers. Request for consideration pursuant to Article 104. The rules of procedure were adopted at December 26th. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 16 December 2003. The committee in charge is also the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and it submitted its report on 8 January 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm just finishing the break-up. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it for us to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act in the first reading? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I do not konstatovati that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Procedure in First Reading. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. That's Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) At the 26th session of the House, the Council of Ministers adopted a request that the bill be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 16 December last year. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is also the committee responsible for this legislative proposal. The committee's report was sent to lawmakers on 8 January 2004. He's opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Who is it for us to accept the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? 43 Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? So with one abstention and the other for, we passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. That's Ad.14. The proposal for a law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in first reading is a Council of Ministers. It was addressed to lawmakers on 30 October 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on 17 December 2003. It is also responsible for the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which sent its report to lawmakers on 8 January 2004. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who is it for us to adopt the draft law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading? Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for a law on violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH has given you a report from the Joint Commission. An agreement was reached on the same text of the Law on Freedom of Faith and the legal position of churches and religious communities in BiH. As you saw in the report, the Commission adopted 16 amendments. I'm putting the Joint Commission's report to the vote. Please. It's a alignment. We can't have a debate, because it is. Who's in favour of accepting the Commission's report? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? I therefore conclude that with one vote against, without abstentions and others, we have therefore adopted the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Freedom of Faith and the legal position of the churches and religious communities in BiH, which passed the Law in both homes. 44 We're going to the 16th point. That's Ad.16. The joint commission's report on efforts to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law The Joint Commission agreed both at home on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. In the Commission's report, we have four amendments. Who's up for it? Let's go to the vote. Who's in favour of accepting the Joint Commission's report? Do you mind? - 1 v. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that with 1 vote against and the other votes for adoption of the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, which amended and complemented the Election Law were also adopted in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, the College is proposing a 40-minute break so we can absorb, so we're starting, so 35 minutes. So he continued at 1 hour with the 17th agenda. Thank you very much. I'm opening the 17th item of the agenda, moving to the 17th point of the Ad agenda. [[PAUZA]] 17. The proposal for a conclusion on the issue – The current economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a particular reference to the protection of domestic production As you know from the conclusion of the 27th session of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, is to draw up a proposal for conclusions on the topical economic situation in BiH, with special reference to the protection and promotion of domestic production and to propose to the House for adoption. You have received a proposal for conclusions prepared by the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10955	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in, I accept, of course, these conclusions, I am talking about existing conclusions, a proposal for the Commission's conclusions. In point 8 of this issue, the following proposal for conclusions was written – in order to overcome the problems related to pension payments to the place where 45 were reached, and in terms of decisions taken by the House of Human Rights, the Council of Ministers is tasked in co-operation with the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to urgently ensure the implementation of the House of Human Rights Decision. So it's pretty much, according to what I know from the media, about 30,000 demands from people living in the Republika Srpska area today, who want to exercise their pension rights in the Federation pension fund. This is a terrible blow to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Fund, which leads to bankruptcy of the fund, and different pensions, the lowest pensions or different pensions in two Bosnian Herzegovina entities, we today have in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the sole reason that different policies are being conducted in determining the rates of arrest and collection of funds from which pensions are alluded. If the rates in RS were the same as in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there would be no difference in pension levels, according to experts. That is why I believe that if this proposal is to remain here as it stands, it should be complemented by the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is finally recommending it, or thinks this issue should be raised to a state level. This is therefore one of the reasons why the pension policy should be at the state level and in any case, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is asking the entities leading the pension policy, the collection of funds to step into Bosnia and Herzegovina and the policies to equalise. Therefore, to assign the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation, not to mention at all the Government of Republika Srpska, I think this would be an incomplete proposal for a conclusion and I suggest that it be complemented here in this context. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10956	I thank my colleague Džaferović. The word came from Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10957	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me just rely on what my predecessor was talking about. Namely, the term for pensions where they are and in the context of the House of Human Rights Decision, I must remind you that the decision of the House of Human Rights was made only in the case of three citizens who had defacto returned to the Federation and indeed have pensions from Republika Srpska that are lower, and they bear life costs in the Federation higher than in the Federation. So I believe that people who believe that the decision of the House of Human Rights applies to those who have not applied. The basic prerequisite is that these people actually return to the Federation and live there, and then we can talk about that kind of pay. The second segment of this point is when we talk about pensions where they are made, are pensions of former Yugoslav People's Army members, because someone is accidentally or intentionally forgetting that the Federal PIO Fund pays out pensions both in Belgrade and in 46 Titograd, or Podgorica, in Zagreb, Slovenia, so all members of the former Yugoslav People's Army. This is a matter that must be addressed by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it would have to be that this remark should build on point 8 and in the previous one, in the Human Rights Decision, if you do not trust me to obtain the House of Human Rights Decision and you will see why the House found these three people to be discriminated against. Just because they live in an environment where the cost of life is higher, and the pension they receive is from a lower environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10958	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10959	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, ministers, Mr. Minister, I just want to know what kind of debate we had in the last session. I think it was a very difficult task for the Commission to sublime the conclusions, and what I can say is that I can support this proposal. What I want to say is that the conclusion of the 8th is precise and clear, because it is said in order to overcome the problem of paying pensions towards the place where they are and are achieved in terms of decisions taken by the House for Human Rights. No one here spoke of thousands but of the need to implement human rights decisions. Not even about individual decisions, and I think this conclusion is correct. You can't talk about another entity when in that domain it's not about the House's decision on human rights. So the point for me is that the decisions of the House of Human Rights are not decisions that we're going to make, but that they're going to be enforceable. And so we discussed this area. If there's a decision from the House of Human Rights in this area that applies to the RS, I'm in favour of enrolling. But if I'm not up for it, why would I? So here reflects that level of debate, I would ask that these conclusions are therefore a reflection of the debate, not of our subsequent reflections on what anyone could mean by conclusion. This is exactly where we say the decisions of the House of Human Rights. If there are three, five, ten and the Council of Ministers, then, interpreting not to interpret decisions, but simply to see how decisions will be implemented. And so I support these conclusions. Thank you. The Republic has Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10960	Mr. Chairman, the least I need is a lawyer and I don't need to interpret what I'm doing here, because what I was about to say, I think I've made myself perfectly clear. I'm just asking you to follow procedure and what I suggested you put to the vote. Of course it is, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10961	Mr Špirić, the chairman of the replica. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10962	I thought my colleague Džaferović wouldn't speak to me personally, because I didn't mention him at all, but I feel like I need a lawyer. I think there is no need for anxiety, because just as Džaferović said, every MP will have equal treatment at least as far as I'm concerned. And I don't think there's any need for this reaction, because I've tried really not to mention anyone, but to say that the conclusion should reflect the essence of our debate. We have no discussion today, but to see if the conclusions reflect what we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10963	Thank you. Dr. Živković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10964	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since I have initiated this in the conclusion of last session when we discussed this agenda point, I have a need to say a few words. First of all, I'm glad it came to conclusions, secondly, that I think it's a precise conclusion and there's no need to change it in any part of his. Especially what a legal nonsension is if you allow me to say, what Mrs. Suada said would require someone to return to the Federation to get a pension. It's just like saying someone should go back to Germany if they're entitled to pensions and then receive pensions in that entity. That's what I didn't hear anywhere in the world, so it probably can't be with us. So the House of Human Rights has made the decision that we are looking for here as Parliament, especially to strengthen and to implement that decision, if we are going to Europe and that is our goal, I think the least we can do is respect the House's human rights decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10965	I thank Dr. Živković. Dr. Lagumdžija called to say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10966	Dear colleagues, gentlemen, the chairman, as these are conclusions regarding the agenda point called the aktuelan economic social situation in BiH, with a special focus on the protection and stimulation of domestic production, I would like first of all to conclude that all the conclusions that are given here are solely relations, i.e. too largely related to this part called with a specific focus on the protection and stimulation of domestic production. A few conclusions are related to the economic social situation in BiH and there have been some proposals from that domain, I do not want to repeat them. I also made 31 suggestions for conclusions at the time, quite logically I didn't expect them all to be here, although some can conditionally accept that they were conditionally put into what is standing here. I'll give you an example. I have suggested a few short-term things such as introducing border crossings at which this can be imported, there are only a few of them, to do so immediately, and to prepare immediately at these crossings the appropriate this, support materially technical and human to implement the sublegal acts and rules that are said here to be carried out within the next three months. In order not to repeat all this, I would like to add just a few concrete suggestions, accepting these conclusions with the conclusion that I am not longer. I suggest that in point 2 in the second conclusion, when it is said here that within three months, short-term systemic measures will be taken, only words should be added here – with respect for the proposals presented in the debate 29.12.1003 and that those who bring in the next three months of these short-term measures should at least once again go through what we have specifically told them, so let them respect what they want. I don't insist on any of them. So just to be said here, by respecting the proposals made in the debate, let them appreciate what they want to respect, and translate into concrete. It's a proposal first, complemented by a specific handle number 2. I also propose to add, at the end of the text, the text that reads – it is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare at the end of each quarter of this year for the Parliamentary Assembly of Information on the realisation and update of these conclusions. That given the seriousness of the whole situation, we ask the Council of Ministers to just tell us once in three months what happened and what they did, that we did not turn out to be insecure, that only because of roadblocks we had a debate at Parliament. The third thing, the third conclusion that I'm proposing, because I'm proposing it on a paper that writes the proposal for conclusions, although this is the first addition of point 2, this is the addition of the text itself, so it can be defined as the second conclusion. So, the third conclusion is I propose a conclusion that reads - withdrawing from the parliamentary procedure Law on the Rights and Obligation of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. So it's in the context of this current economic social situation in BH. And the fourth conclusion, decisions to increase salaries made last year at BH level are annulled. Lower levels of authorities are called on to do the same, to the extent that they have done this and to direct those funds needed in 2004 to the Agricultural Recovery Fund defined in point 7 of these conclusions. So let's give some initial, initial funding to this agricultural development fund. And that's it. Špirić'm handing you these conclusions in writing as I have brought them out.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10967	Thank you very much. I would just ask that the conclusions reflect what we discussed at the last session if they reflect that, I will, of course, support them. Dr. Kunić answered the question, please. Ah, sorry, Mr. Martin Raguž. Dr. Kunić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10968	Here you go, while you're on your way, I'll do it. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10969	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I would like to say, to respond to Professor Lagumdžija's proposal for an accent on the second part of the agenda. Namely, if you follow the debate as it went, then the focus was on that part, and it wasn't on this first part. So, while drawing up these conclusions, the Commission made sure that the conclusions were what the chairman said, the expression of the debate at the last session on this issue, and it sought to really sublime, or frame all the discussions that were taking place in the direction of some proposals, i.e. those that treated this thematic area. As for Mr. Džaferović's proposal, I'm sorry, my accent may not be my apologies, don't hope this is a terrible blow to the pension fund. That was in the debate. I have to say that I hadn't framed this myself but they later reminded me that it was in the debate and it was brought in afterwards, beware that everyone who made a pension in the area where he made it. These are fundamental human rights. I don't think there's any need to talk about it. What Mrs Palavrić says, it is a classic example of discrimination would be that if you don't give people in the same space in the same country, they create a pension right under the same conditions. A classic example of discrimination. And now that's the situation. Mr. Džaferović, proposing that it be transferred, immediately follows that criminal provision to transfer it to the joint institutions. Please, this one, what does a joint institution have to do with this. You know who's in charge of these questions. You know that. And the conclusions were just made with a particularly subtle relationship to the issue. What Professor Lagumdžija proposes, this last one was not a debate, and this is a matter of today's discussion whether it will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10970	I thank Dr. Kunić. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10971	I thank you, since last time I participated as well as a significant number of representatives in the debate on this issue, and since we have received conclusions from the competent committee, I can say that they have largely covered what was the meaning of the debate, which were the main accentes in the debate and were the main proposals, but I think there is room for these conclusions to be improved by the basis of those proposals that we heard at that session. One of them was Professor Dr Muratović, and it seems to me that Professor Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović, and I don't think they are sufficiently indicated by these conclusions, and they are treated and could be placed at point 2 of these conclusions, where it is said of BiH's difficult economic social situation, with very difficult complex conditions. I don't think that's the only thing that can be required to make short-term activity plans. The state should have a strategy on how to deal with a huge imbalance, or coverage of only 26 per cent, in a hasty manner. And then it was said every country 50 solves it with a simple formula. Reduce imports, increase exports. And I think that if the Council of Ministers wants to be serious, I said this last time, uh, consume their key role in the executive government, we should have a view and a strategy on these issues. And not to mention the specific examples that I have set back then, here we see that, therefore, things are still open on these issues. And I think that this, in any case, strategic approach to resolving imbalances, state imbalances as the highest possible priority and demand for the Council of Ministers to do so, and only within that short-term strategic activities and plans in certain areas. And I would not only stay here for the production of agricultural production, energy production and wood processing, but also other comparative advantages and resources that BiH has, and these are in any case both water and metal and metal production of metal and textiles, and make them all in this section and that they are covered. But this is our committee's proposal, and I think the Council of Ministers would have been also parallel to this, were such conclusions as I recall, this one, this one, its strategic and these operational plans on this matter. That would be for point two. This point 4 in my opinion is not enough to say that the House of Representatives is concerned about the application of the Free Trade Agreement. The formulation stands, but we have ordered urgent bilateral contacts and this, direct contacts to address all outstanding issues of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other relevant ministries, in accordance with the international conventions, so that BiH can show that it can be one responsible part of the international legal order and behave in accordance with international law, I think that this formula must necessarily enter this point 2 and I think it is possible to accept the proposal that every three months we analyse the effects of the implementation of these conclusions and measures, with the further emphasis on this strategic approach, from the level of BiH, because it is not sufficiently presented in these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10972	Who's next to the word? Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10973	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, the truth that the conclusions came to the table and could not be very studioy to review everything and how it was formulated, but by flying my eyes over it, I noticed and otherwise in practice I noticed the state's behaviour and with this little subsidy that went towards subsidising agricultural production, they leaned on so-called market surpluses. Our agricultural production and the properties where this agricultural production is practically taking place, in 60 to 80% of cases does not correspond to the size of certain holdings, where larger market surpluses can be created that would be given in addition to the personal satisfaction of the needs, certain people working there and the market. If the state, which so far has been shown to focus on only subsidizing the surplus of the products submitted, then we will practically help very little in the current state of our agriculture, because 51 says, for handing over a kilo or a kilo of beef he will get so much and so much. And let's just say I've conducted a review in my municipality, where 95% of people deal with agriculture, we have 2-3 people who are able to hand over surpluses, but each one deals in a certain way and thus helps on the other hand, and the state and itself and maintains a certain standard of these agricultural producers. What was I gonna say? That in point 7 of these conclusions, it should be made more clear to me in which way subsidisation will be done or that the suggestion of the Council of Ministers to use old methods, otherwise we will have little use when it comes to what I was talking about, if it only comes down to, because the practical simplest thing is to monitor the subsidisation through the teaching of excess products to the market. And that practice won't help our semi-economic producers much. So I ask that point 7 and this thing be done in a certain way and suggested how to subsidise agricultural products will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10974	I thank my colleague Moranjkić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10975	Fellow Members and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, if the proposal for conclusions and the expected effects of these conclusions are not just a reform, the debate on this topic has not been or should be just a form of action. Finally, the current issues related to this problem have been strongly agreed and still this, in public, of course, in legislative bodies etc. So for a reason, if this is not supposed to be a reform and if each of these points, and each of these conclusions should produce concrete behaviour of the competent authorities, both state and other levels, then it seems to me and I would have just said that a little while ago if, today, no matter how important this is to be determined, this might still be directed, and here it was a dilemma, a little bit broader to see, a little bit of this conclusion to be analyzed and to see to what extent we really like Parliament, we want that when we adopt conclusions, which need to mean something concrete, and not just as I say this, to reform a position, then it makes sense that maybe we should leave this session to continue or for the next session that we will be quick. Because there are such general proposals that do not show to what extent the body is sufficiently obliged, to which extent it is competent, and we would have to send very specific messages if we wanted to, as a House of Representatives, in this area to contribute to resolving these issues. So I've only come out so far that I'm not going in now, because I also have some dilemmas about the content of conclusions as such, but also the extreme range of some formulations here. Maybe this is one, not an opportunist of this proposal, maybe it's something others don't think is necessary, at least from their point of view, but it seems to me that it would be correct according to the effort we've made and the expectations that ultimately need to come out of this, that it makes sense and that it's no big harm or it won't be too much damage maybe ten days I don't know when we're going to continue the session on this issue to come back again. That's my suggestion. Thank you very much. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10976	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little bit if I can make a suggestion, since I see that we are now going to this debate, this morning we have the Commission's conclusions. I think that, of course, if I were to come to the mood of the House, given that we have devoted the whole day to the debate on the economic social situation, so it would be good on the basis of these, so, but about the debate that we were having, not opening today's debate, I would like to commend the work of the Commission, and I think that the Commission has done the essential and content well, but to take into account, and in particular, these first two conclusions of Mr Lagumdžija, and also Mr Martin Raguž, that, of course, all the other conclusions that were the subject of the debate, and that the Commission is simply looking at a little bit more, so I think that these conclusions are to a good degree improving the text of conclusions, let's say, on the basis of the suggestions of Dr Lagumdžija, that the Council of Ministers should take into account all the proposals and suggestions and suggestions, and of course, that it will give her the most effective mechanisms of protection of domestic production. And this second, once quarterly, to inform simply this house or the BiH Parliament of the measures implemented in this area. It seems to me that this would be Parliament's active position, according to the Council of Ministers as an executive body, or what Mr Martin is saying required the Council of Ministers to urgently enter bilateral contacts with the signatories of the agreement in order not to cause any damage and simply interpret agreements in implementation in one bilateral context. And of course there was talk of resources here, and Martin suggested adding other resources. I think the resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina are at the disposal of the Council of Ministers to take care of it. Of course, counterpart Džaferović had his proposal for a conclusion. There were other conclusions to be made, let's just say I can take a step, but I'm not going to take a step today, and I think it'd be good to leave the Commission time, so given what's been said today, and about this debate, to offer, because you know, you see what it is, I can say we're going to plead, but there's a danger that they won't pass, and then we'd show
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10977	He didn't go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10978	Dr. Kunić, but look what's going on, I don't mind going on. No, no, look, we have to allow the amendment phase to come to conclusions. It's hard for me to record what anyone says. _______(?) 53 [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]] Please, see, I'd like to ask, so let's now say who's for the proposal that, on the basis of that, here's a stenogram, we have conclusions and suggestions that are going to give this to the Commission once again to look at it. There are things that, of course, the Commission needs, in my view, to respect. No, no commission, don't. If MPs. Please, if anyone wants to, so today, just a little bit of a joke, if someone wants destruction today, they won't have it. If we determine the commission, the commission will do what we do today, and we'll tell you what we think. If you want all MPs to work with the commission, then it's a committee of 42 MPs, and that god can't handle it. Give me some seriousness, please. Please, nice. So, if we trust the commission, we'll choose a commission. If we don't trust the commission, we won't choose it. I believe in the commission and I think she did a good job and I think there are useful suggestions that improve the text and put Parliament in an active position, which was the aim of our debate. Who's up for this proposal? The Commission will deliver it to us again. Who's against it? Who's being held back? So I'm saying with three votes against, one abstention, the others for, that we've adopted this conclusion, so the commission, given today's, today's suggestions on this text, is correcting and delivering this text at the next session. Thank you very much. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 18. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Contract on the international occasional transport of passengers to ordinary and passenger buses – INTERBUS Treaty, (b) Tampere Convention on the provision of telecommunications resources for disaster mitigation and rescue and assistance operations, (c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on trade and economic co-operation I open the debate. I propose that, by voting one vote, we declare the ratification of all three agreements because the voting procedure is a debt. Do you agree? Who's calling for a hearing? No one's answering? I'm closing the debate and let's go plead. Who's in favor of having these three agreements ratified? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. We find that ladies and gentlemen have unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement under a), b) and d). 54 We move to the 19th point of the agenda. It's Ad.19. The Council of Ministers' report on the construction of the Corridor V-c Highway has been requested by the Council of Ministers to inform us of our activities so far. It was also the conclusion of our Parliament that the Council of Ministers occasionally informs Parliament of the activities undertaken. We are fortunate and grateful that Minister Dokić is there and I give my word to Minister Branko Dokić. Here you go, Professor Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10980	I must say that this report will be the Ministry's report, not the Council of Ministers. When we were informed that you requested to file a report today, then we did, then the Service did a tax on some 28 points of activity that were so far. I would ask you to take this as a reminder of everything we've done, and it's worth it, referring to Corridor V-c, and through this oral report, I wouldn't want to bother you with what we've been talking about here in this House, but I would like to underline a few of the activities that followed after the last consideration of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A more detailed report by the Council of Ministers, I will propose in the end a more detailed report by the Council of Ministers on these concrete steps that will be taken in the next period you will receive especially at one of the next sessions. What I want to point out at the end of last year is that at the end of last year, two competitions have been completed, one competition is for the selection of members of the concession commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina and another competition is the selection of companies to do the planning study documentation for Corridor V-c. On this first issue, therefore, the Commission for concessions has already completed its work and the proposal to be addressed to the Council of Ministers next week. So in the next, here I expect a month or two at most, that proposal could come to you for a decision at the BiH Assembly's Representative Council. A competition for the selection of companies for the production of planer's study documentation was completed on December 24th. 20 companies or consortiums have been reported, however you wish, and we have applications practically from around the world. Here is the country: Germany, BiH, of course, Italy, Slovenia, Spain, USA, France, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Great Britain, Switzerland, Austria. Within these 20 applications, there is a very large consortium composed of companies from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Germany and one consortium composed of companies from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and not to list any further. 55 The Commission is considering this material, and I expect that in the next week or two, it will come up with a proposal to select a narrow circle of companies that will then go on, apply for a tender because this is a prequalification. The tender is registered for publication. Also prepared is one text of a public call for expression of interest to build a highway on the V-c Corridor based on concession investment and should go to the Council of Ministers in the next 10-15 days. So the next step will be to publish an ad through which you would then be interested to get concessions to express that interest and after that we will have a clearer picture of whether we will go into construction through concessions, or we will go some other way. What is most important at this time and what I want to underline, not entering into these other details, is that by solving the issue, or by deciding on the amount of compensation for the jies license in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have solved the issue under number 1. Funding of complete documentation for production on Corridor V-c and 2. They realized the possibility of self-building unless we found a concessionary. So not entirely, but a good part of 420 million KM, if you take what's the price, that's in the next 8 years, that would mean about 7-8 km of highway from these assets, annually. If we take into account the fact that we are already talking to some banks about credit arrangements, in particular now I am thinking about a bypass around Sarajevo, it is quite certain that this year we will sign this credit arrangement, opening and other credit arrangements on those shares that show economic justification, then that says so even though we are not in a position to get a concessionary who is interested in the entire section of Corridor V-c, which is always our priority, then here we will be able, so it is quite certain to enter this process and independently and look for some other approaches and roads. I would also like to emphasise this in an institutional sense within the Ministry we have formed a unit that will only work on the V-c Corridor and since 1 February it will officially be tasked only to work on these jobs, a final road co-operation has been established within Bosnia and Herzegovina and one of the basic tasks of the corporation in the corporate formation contract is precisely the Pan European and Interethnic Ways. So it will also be one of these institutional units that will immediately be included in these tasks in the next period, and we will see how needs are required. As part of this report, it is stated and I would like to underline that we have prepared a call or ad at the Ministry, however you would like to elect a consultant to assist the Council of Ministers and the Ministry in the preparatory phase of the project. We will especially need that help if we come to the stage to make concessions, if we are able to have a concessionary. At this point, we did not think that we should rush this, but in the next few months it is quite certain that we will also go to the launch of this ad and choose a consultant on all issues, of course financial structures and activities and solving 56 many legal economic issues that will already come at the stage of this study project documentation. Here in the shortest lines is that. Of course I'm ready, that here's the deputy reminds me that the Ministry has prepared a dynamic plan of activity until the beginning of construction. I did not consider it necessary to deliver it to you now for the simple reason that he has not yet been discussed at the Council of Ministers. When it is, and it will be very soon, then you will also get this paper of course you have in your file. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10981	I thank Dr. Branko Dokić for his written and oral informing of the House of Representatives. And I think it should be practice like the conclusion of home. I don't see the need to open it unless the MPs want to ask a question from the Minister about Corridor V-c. This is the information we were looking for. Here's the minister's voiced his mood to answer questions if the MPs have any, I'd like to ask you, if there's any need. Who wants to. Dr. Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10982	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must admit that I expected this parliament to receive information that would contain at least as many elements as the minister and his deputy presented at the press conference the other day. We have, unfortunately, received less information here, and unfortunately since this has been required of them by the decision of this House of Parliament when we discussed this this this summer, it was logical that in this information the minister and his deputy and the Council of Ministers were manifested in the context of what they were saying from this pay phone three or six months ago. So, let me remind you, six months ago, Bosnia and Herzegovina and every citizen of the country lived in anticipation of the joy of getting Corridor V-c in 3-4 years, which we'll get practically without one, almost to say dinar, one stamp, one dollar and one euro of domestic investment, because there's a fairy tale that'll give us two or three billion euros for free here and do it in four to five years. Then we, some of us from this pay phone, from fellow Azra to further, including myself, suggested that some steps be taken to get that investor and every other potential pull in the right way. Then we were told by the minister and his deputy that what we're saying was nonsense. Here even the deputy minister told me that I don't understand myself, because I'm just an engineer unlike his minister who's the same. And what we didn't experience in public is an insult from the leaders of the state who accused anyone who doubted the realization of that dream. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10983	Shame on them.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10984	Shame on them, Mr. Džaferović, that's what you said, I agree with everyone, shame on them. And that's why I expected, as a basic order of charm, that on behalf of the Council of Ministers and Ministers and one who should still apologize for what they said to people who were well-intentioned to try to put things on the right track. In every country in the world, in every country in the world after this public deception, after what you said the other day at a press conference when you informed the public that there was nothing from the highway this year, that if God will start doing it next year and that this year you will probably, as you said at the press conference, have tonically let you know that you will probably finish project documentation in this year and that this year you will have a feasibility study. The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina also remembered 15 days ago to oblige you to find the means to study feasibility for Corridor V-c what we asked of you. From here, not me, but some others were telling you to go immediately into the formation of a concession commission. You're explaining to us that you started it 3-4 months after these speakers were suggested to you that you were doing it and you don't have a concession committee yet. In the end, you came back to do at least the things we told you this summer that we should do last summer. And after that, you go out here and you give us the chronology of public deception to the Bosnian Herzegovina that lasted six months. That's when I was talking, and now I'm saying that this is how you dissipate serious investors who want to answer because of the fact that the roads in the Federation have been stopped. In 2002, the Auto Road to Zenica began to be built, in this year's one metre, because it was expected to start building at 50-60 km per year. And you're telling us now that in the next eight years, you're going to be making out of your own seven to eight miles a year from the fees you get from fixed operators. Otherwise, in 2002, only one Bosnian Herzegovic operator singled out the funds by which it could be made, not only could, but it was made twice as much that year and allocated 3 times more funds in only one part of the Federation to... It's no big deal that you're dating now with one plan that has no plan anywhere. The problem is that you Bosnian Herzegovic public knowingly, or unwittingly led into such a harsh delusion of the misleading public that they will get what every smart person in this country is clear that we have to get, and that is Corridor V-c. And everyone was well-intentioned to tell you to do what you now say you're going to start doing, he's being impaled here by you on a pillar of shame from this pay phone. In every country in the world, the government that led to this, instead of that press conference that you had come out and informed the public that it had fooled the public, that it had deceived the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was for the sake of dignity of both this country and its leaving and leaving. There are no problems, the same parliamentary majority freely, to make which 58 will begin to do to every well-intentioned person who wanted to see then was clear. So, Mr. Minister, I find this information totally unacceptable, I find what you presented here today to be the least inappropriate, and I didn't expect you to come here with the powers of the Council of Ministers to inform us that you are leaving because you are guilty of public deception, but I did expect you to at least express the basic charter order and tell the people of this country that you are aware that you have made a mistake, at least that you are aware that you have made a mistake. If you are not ready to admit that you have sinned after this, then there is misery and which is greater in front of all of us. Unfortunately, today, the Bosnian Herzegovic public from this parliament finds out the bad news from you that you cheated on us with a story about Bosnia and Herzegovina and Corridor V-c. That's clear here today. And these people are still going around the world looking for means that they could certainly find out that you're doing this seriously. This is unfortunately a black day for this country in every sense of the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10985	Deaf either.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10986	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, and Minister Dokić. Here you go. I'm sorry I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10987	There's one folk proverb that says, every unspeakable gold is worth it. But if it hadn't been for so many words and sentences that really don't fit any MP in any part of the world, I wouldn't have answered and not said a word. All this Mr. Lagumdžija said reminds me of the long-known one – and the cardigan in the rest should be destroyed. And I would say that neither this minister insulted or insulted anyone, but he responded to arguments with arguments, nor deceived the public. It seems to me that behind this pay phone, so many sentences have just been spoken in which the public is not only deceived, but not using bigger words. And I really think it's unnecessary to say anything about what's just been said. We are doing our job professionally, responsibly, and we will not pay attention to such flat-rate grades and indeed unsuitable accusations whose sole aim is to confuse the public and what I once said, and the cardigan still needs to be brought down.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10988	Thank you. Who's calling? Replica. Dr. Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10989	This is not a replica, this is a reply to the replica. This is a double. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10990	I'm asking that we refrain from throwing away and let whoever wants to answer the word, call it right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10991	The first proposal because of what is now said __________(?) A little louder. I say the first proposal does what is said here. I suggest and please, if you do not want to conclude, then I ask that I be allowed to be given a stenogram from everyone in the last year of Parliament's session when it was debated about Corridor V-c and that the Council of Ministers, it would be normal for us to run an analysis and make a serious analysis of what is promised here so as not to get re-entered into the same mistake. Not to prove what everyone knows well what's said. So I ask that a stenogram be delivered what the minister was saying, what the MP was saying, and then on the basis of that analysis, we see what we do now so that it doesn't fall into the same mistake again. They or anyone else who does it. Just when I thought that Minister Dokić, after saying that every gold was not spoken, would return to his place, he proved that the claim was correct because he began to speak. And what concerned me most here, and what I answered, because he repeated from here again that he would not pay attention to what was being said to him from the MPs. The minister's best possible way of showing what he thinks of us and how he's going to treat what we're saying to him. Read the stenogram. I won't pay attention to what you're saying. It's an affair. And I agree that the cardigan needs to be destroyed. What has been done so far with koridor v-c should be destroyed as a way to run a business in this country. Because otherwise, I'm afraid some good cardigan could be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10993	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10994	It seems to me again that whoever told me about Corridor when it came to mind. I tell you what, I'm happy with the information, because we've been looking for information, and the stenograms are probably going to some investigative committees and read and read again, and I'm looking at this as a chronology of events. As far as the caragine's concerned, we're starting to make it even older and nicer, probably. We're all jumping over here, and first of all, we should have said from this morning that 60 campaigns have started, and it's probably very important to show up and say some things, because it seems to me that this is in function of the election campaign is there. What I'm saying is, as far as Corridor V-c is concerned, that we all here together have to have an attitude not to be the subject of our bickering here that we all have to make every effort to build the Corridor as soon as possible. Why? Well, not to win points, Minister Dokić, or I don't know any of us here, but to finally get one ten thousand people to do something to make money. I now want to say exactly what the people think of us and of Corridor, regardless of all reports and reading some previous meetings and statements. He thinks someone's trying to obstruct the start of construction of Corridors and thinks maybe we should speed up some things and decisions and move on to one such project as soon as possible and give jobs to our companies and our people and opportunities to earn that salary. In that sense, I look at Corridor V-c and this information and I look forward to moving and looking forward to it, and I hope that by the end of January, we will be able to appoint a commission and do things the way they should be done. I would personally take advantage of the presence of Minister Dokić to ask for a very important, also Pan-European corridor that is joining this V-c corridor, and I have read since I read in the press that Montenegro has joined some possibility of financing the Adriatic Ionian Pan to the European Corridor and means whether these points have been determined, since Croatia has already entered into this. So he's going through Montenegro, he should go into Herzegovina? Did we do anything about it, because I think it's compact actually fits in with each other? So is there any information about the Adriatic Ionian Road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-01-22-0.u10995	I thank Ljilja Milićević. Here it is if the minister agrees in writing, if Ljilju is interested in this Pan-European corridor. Ladies and gentlemen, if he doesn't report for a hearing, I'm closing the hearing of the 28th session. I thank Minister Dokić. I think I owe the MPs who want a stenogram on the V-C debate to provide a stenogram on the agenda. Thank you. Tomorrow at 9:00 p.m., I'll see you at the Plenary Meeting of both Houses of Parliament. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 14.20 p.m.
