ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15287	Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 47th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. ... 26 MPs and we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. I said, here's a report from the Service, that there's a problem with technique, so please appreciate that until it works out, if there's a statement, so we'll plead with these charts that you have on your desks. I also welcome our guests who regularly follow the sessions of this house. I just want to tell you that in addition to the usual calls we regularly send, since today we are considering a report on the financial business audit carried out by the BiH institutions, we also invited representatives of the Office for Audit. Once again, I warmly welcome you all. Before we go to the realization of the agenda, I want to inform you, you have all received this notice and call and in written form, that as representatives of this House and this Parliament today we are attending the taking over of a peacekeeping mission by EUFOR from SFOR, and in that sense we have organised a joint bus transport and that we do not now make a selection of who is not going, so everyone has the opportunity to leave at 11:30 p.m. to continue our work and work this afternoon to exhaust the agenda. We'd work 10 to 11 if we could make it. I ask you to appreciate this and start working, along with suggestions, to try the record and counseling issues to finish by that time. You, along with the call, got the agenda. It's a draft agenda. This morning at nine o'clock we had a session of the Colleges in an extended composition. At an extended college, we agreed to supplement the proposed agenda with four points. First, it is a request from the BiH Presidency to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and it's like the sixth item of the agenda. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the BiH export-credit law as item 2. Then, like 24. In the 24th point, relating to ratification, i.e. to give consent to include two documents under 1. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Belarus on road transport of passengers and freight and under b) of the Convention on cooperation on the protection and sustainable use of the Danube River. The Danube River Protection Convention. Then, the proposal for a decision to give an authentic interpretation of the Law on Free Zones and the proposal as the 22nd item of the agenda, this was the 25th item of the agenda and the 26th item of the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of Mr Munib Jusufović. 2 I am opening a debate on the agenda. There are no reports. I conclude the debate and find that today's 47th session has the following agenda: 1. Journal of the 46th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Request by a representative of Mirsad Ćeman to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation affairs to a mediators' association under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. A request from the Administration of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under procedure 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the BiH Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act, by a jury procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a law on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, civil servants and others employed in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad (first reading) – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budgetary - (Proposer of the Law, Mr Momčilo Novaković), 9. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH, 10. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Payments Act on a single account and income distribution, 14. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 15. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act, 16. Report on the Financial Business Review of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institute for 2003, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget, the following institutions: - BiH Statistics Agency, - BiH State Border Service, - the Institute of Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property, - the Election Commission of BiH, - the BiH Presidency, - the BiH Ministry of Communications, - the BiH Institute of Joint Affairs, - the BiH State Service Agency, - the BiH Court of Justice, - the Prosecutor's Office for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, - the BiH Office for Veterinary Affairs, - the BiH Constitutional Court, - the BiH Information and Protection Agency, - the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, - the BiH Law Department, - the BiH Court of Justice, - the Prosecutor's Office for BiH, - the Office for the Veterinary of BiH, - the BiH Information and Protection Agency for Mines, - the Directorate for Civil Aviation for Civil Aviation, - the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, 17. Report on the state of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina (sponsor of the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission), 18. Report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy on the proposal for conclusions and measures on the Information on the Security status of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19. Proposal for a Resolution on the adoption of the Otva document with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPA) – Proposer Milorad Živković, 20. Proposal for a Resolution on the postponement of the dispatch of all BH military and police formations to missions abroad until the adoption of the relevant Act and activities in this area (proposer of Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija), 21. Proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Nikola Kragulj, MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 22. Appointing three members to the joint commission of both homes for the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the law establishing the BiH Export Credit Agency IGA 23. Resolution of MP Mirko Blagojević in the Administrative Commission and the Finance and Budgetary Commission and selection of a new member, 24. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Veterinary Cooperation, (b) Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, (c) Agreement on the Development Credit (Other Employment Support Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (SEP), (d) Agreement on Development Credit (Other Social Sector Adjustment Credit) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (SOSAC II), (e) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Road Transport of Passengers and Loads, (f) Convention on Co-operation to Back and Sustainable Use of the Danube River (Convention on the Protection of the Danube River) 4 25. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 9. Free Zone Laws, 26. Proposal for a decision to set the mandate for MP Mr Munib Jusufović. That would be a draft agenda. And now ladies and gentlemen allow me to say on behalf of this House of Representatives, that it is a special honor and pleasure for me today to welcome Mr Gustav Se, president of the foreign-political committee of the Italian House of Representatives and to thank him most warmly for being part of his visit to Sarajevo yesterday by visiting our parliament today to continue to other institutions, to attend the session of our home. Once again, I warmly greet him. I thank you for everything he said yesterday, in support of the total Italian parliament to the BiH Parliament, its infrastructure and education, lobbying for BiH and further developing friendly relations between the two countries. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. [[APLAuz]] According to the proposal I made at the beginning, I ask you to try to finish the first and second points until we go to the handover ceremony, so we're really responsible. Ad.1. Book from the 46th session of the House of Representatives Do you have any comments on the minutes? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Can we accept the minutes from the 46th session of the House of Representatives? Please state by raising your charts. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously accepted the record from the 46th session of the House of Representatives. Ad.2. For this session, MPs have received the following questions: - Nikola Špirić on questions from the 36th and 45th sessions of the House. - Sead Palavrić asked questions at the 38th and 39th session, - Selim Bešlagić, Momčilo Novaković and Nenad Mišić on questions asked at the 41st sessions, - Vinko Zorić on questions asked at the 42nd session of the House, - Mehmed Suljkanović on questions asked at the 44th session of the House, - Milorad Živković, on questions asked at the 45th session of the House, - Ivo Miro Jović on two issues from the 45th session of the House, - Mirsad Ćeman, Vinko Zorić, Muhamed Moranjkić, Filip Andrić, on questions asked at the 45th session, and - Sead Avdić on the initiative presented at the 46th session Here, we see, if any quantity of responsible questions is corrected. I hope the quality of it will follow. Any comments on the answers received? Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15288	... has responded to this suggestion, i.e. the initiative, which we submitted at the last meeting of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. I quote only one position in the response of the pedsjedništvo, it is the position of the UN Security Council, which says, any insistence by the domestic authorities to carry out a decertification review would be unsuccessful, since BiH has accepted the mandate of the IPTF as a UN body in the capacity contained in those international documents. Supporting the IPTF's work on BiH's premises and with all due gratitude for the IPTF missions in BiH, however, the simple opinion of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is somewhat different from that of BiH. In this context, it would be good for the presidency to consider different views as well, in the sense of the UN's charge, so that it might get an empty space to protect human rights in BiH, from the aspect of these applications, which over 600 decertified police officers in BiH have filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15289	Thank you very much, Mr. Sead Avdić. No more comments. I am concluding this part of this item on the agenda and we are moving on to asking new parliamentary questions. The first was Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Jelina Đurković and Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. It's the order so far reported. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15290	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, My question concerns a research centre at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Whose establishment I am familiar with during the Finance Commission's session and whose existence I welcome, and I am not in the essence of the question of the justification of existence, but the question of the axis relates to it. How was the person admitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly research centre? In that case, was there a competition in which the information was called? How many people have applied to the competition and what is the national structure of the registered persons? Who decided on the reception of the person and how many people with permanent status were admitted and what is their national structure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15291	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Mrs. Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15292	I have one initiative and one question. The initiative refers to developments related to the effects of radiation from poor uranium on human health in BiH. In that sense, I propose that the House of Representatives form an ad-hoc commission to determine the effects of radiation of poored uranium on human health, citizens in BiH and that, with a special emphasis on Hadzic, Han Pijeska and Bratunca, because at the time of Hadžić and Han Pijeska's Pijesak, one lived, let's say, the structure of the people and now another. Those who left after the agreement or after the bombing split into the eastern part of BiH should also be included in the survey. The largest population is located in Bratunc. Incentive to this, I received a report from the press or writing a press in Italy, where the temperature was raised, a public change regarding the disease of soldiers, who participated in the war in BiH, in fact after the war in the framework of SFOR forces or stabilisation forces. 6 It is established that of some, as many as I remember the number of 370 soldiers, 260 are suffering from a severe disease, suspected of being caused by radiation from poor uranium. In our press, our public once in a while raised this issue. Is there consequences or no consequences, but it has never been investigated until the end, are there consequences, are they related to radiation and what kind of disease occurs as a consequence of radiation? So, I suggest that our commission, we form this commission and that it in collaboration with the medical associations, chambers with the governments of both entities try to establish co-operation and come up with such data. When we get that information, then we'll simply know what to do with that report and how to do it, how to do it after that report. It's an initiative. And the parliamentary question, I repeat the parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers and ask him. Why does the Council of Ministers not fulfil its part of the obligation to co-operate with The Hague tribunal in that segment relating to the formation of a truth-searching committee on events in Sarajevo from 1992 to 1995? The deadline is the end of 2004. We've got another month. The Council of Ministers has not yet formed a commission. I'm asking, why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15293	I thank Mrs Jelina Đurković. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I will ask one question and I will give one notice to this House. There is almost no congregation material, without any written interventions or any threats or any complaints coming into it, and so also in today’s material, Elta, which points to crime and lawlessness, which reigns in this country, as they say. If this is true what they write and claim from Elta, then this is more than a disgrace to what is done in this country. That's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers, and through him, the authorities. Is this what it says exactly to check, whose responsibility is this? Who should take action on this and make sure we don't get this every time in the material? If this is true, then this is a cry, powerless in an powerless state. Secondly, I am informing the Parlametary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives, that as the first deputy president of the Transport, Communications and Communications Commission, I have come to know that illegal and criminal activities are being carried out in this ministry, in the distribution of the cent of the permits, which I have informed Mr. Dokić and Mr. President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH. For months you've all been silent, and to the Commission's conclusion, no one answers. I ask the Council of Ministers to examine this and involve competent institutions, including the SIP, and publicly ask the OHR Anti-Corruption Team to monitor all this because this is a disgrace to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15295	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15296	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, I will briefly ask a question, What has the Ombudsman of BiH decided on appeal number 5282/04 since 2.8.2004, which has been submitted by removed RS officials by the High Representative for allegedly violating basic human rights and freedoms?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15297	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15298	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs and I will have a very short question. What are the criteria for the indirect taxation administration to conduct the selection of cryonic exposures? I beg to be delivered the criteria and where did they depart from the criteria and for what? Were there subsequent extensions of the list to whose initiative and by what criteria? Is there an estimate of how much business costs will be increased by operators due to longer waiting for the customs procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15299	I thank Mr. Novaković. Any more questions? Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15300	I didn't really get ready, I could have let mir go, but here's the thing, I'll formulate. First let me know if I can talk a minute or two about one answer that I got after a long time, because I wasn't in the hall when I did. Excuse me, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15301	Go ahead, Mr. Zorić. Nothing special's gonna happen in three seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15302	So I got an answer to the parliamentary question, where I asked a number of questions, and it was mostly roads in roads. It is my concern that the Podlugovi-Highoko II shares and shares, I guess the Sarajevo bypass bypass, I don't know why we use that word if we have both Croatian and Serbian and Bosnian expressions. We're rich at least in languages so we don't use this English language. I'm not happy with my English at first. Secondly, it says here that these shares are located on corridor 5c, as well as the previously built section of the Jošanica-Podlugovi highway. To almost the same date, Mr. Moranjkić received an answer that the Council of Ministers concluded at a session on 10.10. that an ad for pre-qualification of a company similar to that for the production of study and project documentation should be called. So someone already knows it's going to be, and the other agent is responding that we're just going to see where corridor 5c goes. So, I'm sorry that I have to criticise the Council of Ministers and I belong or the people of the Council of Ministers who wrote these answers, and I belong to the parliamentary majority. However, this is, then on one question, if you remember, I asked that for years there is a traffic sign between Širok Brijeg and Mostar, where there is a limit on the road 20 km, they simply say, that that is why the competent Directorate of the Federation BiH Roads or I have the right to translate it into such a language, run for the next election for federal 8 MPs, so ask the question there, otherwise, you can't get a question here, because obviously it's not BiH or it is. I think it is also that I in the BiH Parliament could ask a question about anything that is going on in this country in BiH, and that the ministry that is not responsible for this is asking the competent institution to respond and forward it. Today's question, which I want to ask here is. What countries can BiH citizens travel to, therefore, with BiH a visa-free passport? And what country, or all passports, can be reached without a visa? I am asking this because I heard that BiH citizens, therefore, did not need a visa for Chile with BiH, but that BiH unilaterally introduced a visa to the citizens of Chile and that they, of course, introduced reciprocity. I'm surprised, especially because we have very few countries where we can travel without a visa, and then someone finds themselves and introduces it to a state. Is that why Medjugorje or something else I don't know, but I'd like to hear back from you. So, there are these countries that travel a lot to Medjugorje, and where BiH citizens travel less, then maybe our foreign ministry took advantage of the opportunity and introduced visas to make some and money, which is not bad at all, but we need to think about whether this Chile is going to tell someone there or it would be good to be more open to the world and the world to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15303	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Any more questions? Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15304	Thank you very much, I welcome Mr. President and you and the Vice President, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, just because a man thinks of some things I can't support solving the problem, and it immediately shows up a barm of light. I was thinking of not using more institution asking questions. However, I am very pleased that the institutions are up-to-date on my issues. The second is that I'm not satisfied with the text of the answer. Nor does today’s appearance in this point refer to the last question I get and answer. I would like to encourage the BiH Presidency to, in accordance with what I received the answer, and it was a matter at the previous session of Parliament, to launch the criminal responsibility of UN envoy to BiH Žanko Klajna, and in connection with the terrorist act of killing the late BiH Interior Minister Joza Leotar. I have received such an answer that the mere schoolboys in BiH know, and that the distinguished gentleman here in BiH had immunity and that comes down to it, we can't do anything about it. These days in the means of communication, mainly in the daily newspaper, I read about a similar situation, when it comes to the abuse of representatives from the unit, who were UNPROFOR at the time of the war, such as Mr. Mekenzi, who used the prisoners of some sexual experiences camps and I think that we should definitely not remain deaf on these issues and that today's questions are not a question but an incentive for the BiH presidency, that with these things it must come to the public in the UN and therefore I advocate that, in particular, when it comes to the murder of the late Minister Joza Leotar and the behaviour of UN representative Žako Klajn, the Presidency directs a transparent note, a prose of Ananu Annan and the UN. 9 And it is very nice, I said, and return to that beginning of my announcement today, that this institution does not rest, but gives results, that is, when I asked a question about the abuse and terrorism of priests in Tuzla. I asked that question and imagine where miracles were filed after twenty and a few days when the city was known who these hooligans, who provoked the priest, were only that day to apply against the perpetrators of the crime when I asked the question here, which is why it gives me the strength to continue asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15305	Thank you, Mr. Jović. I'm asking Mr. Živković and I'm concluding this part, because they're waiting for us, they're warning us, here's Mrs. Sopta, to understand, our time has run out, if you want to continue later.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15306	Mr. Chairman, here in writing, I understand we must.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15307	I thank Mr. Živković. Thank you very much. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15308	I will briefly, if you will, rely on what he has pointed out, Mr. Zorić's explanation. So... I'm asking the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to tell us if the course of the corridor is known in part or in total? If it's part of it, then we need an answer to which parts it's known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15309	I'm closing this agenda. We'll continue at 13:30 with the 3rd point. Thank you very much. Please check to ring the bell so we can get back to work. [[PAUZA]] We have a large agenda. We continue with the work of the 47th session of the House of Representatives. Now we're on wheel three. Currently there are 27 MPs, 20 from the Federation, 7 from RS. We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. Ad.3. Requests by a representative of Mirsad Ćeman to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation transactions to a mediator's association, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for a Law have been delivered by the Proposer to the House on 29.10. It was forwarded to you on 3.11. I am opening a debate on a request for a procedure under Article 105. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15310	My fellow Members and colleagues, Madam Chairman, thank you very much. I am in writing with the proposal of this law, and I think I have made enough arguments and contribution to how urgent it is to comply with the bill's proposal, and to the law as well as to the text of the law. However, expecting that I will certainly get support for the adoption of the law and by emergency procedure, and also by law in general, just a few shorter notes. 10 The Institute of Mediation in our legal system can say that it is not entirely to say a new institute of some clues, trying to settle disputes in various areas, and we have had before, but in the area of civil-right relations and civil-legal dispute resolution, this is one step further and in the truth of the fact that we recently adopted the Law on Mediation, and that in resolving this law, it has made it impossible to implement me to propose a proposal for this law. The point is that the transfer of responsibilities for mediation to this law is transferred to, at this point in time, the existing associations of mediators, but this does not make it impossible, possibly, to other associations, if and when they appear in the procedure, which is provided here, also do not get, to say the license to do this job. In any case, which I stated in my written explanation, a recent presentation of the mediation project, for example. The court in Banja Luka and others has shown that it has grounds to believe that civil and legal disputes will be resolved more quickly and efficiently this way, and Parliament should not be the brakes to introduce one of this institute in full capacity into our legal system. For this reason, once again a suggestion and in some ways a request for this law to be adopted for all of you. This letter you got from the Mediator's Association, it's actually, I understand the letter of support for the adoption of the law, not to me, because the fact that I proposed the law, nothing essentially changes here, could be proposed by any of you colleagues, is the essence of the law and this solution being finalized, or adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15311	I thank Mr. Ćeman. The word was asked for by Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15312	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I, when it was on the agenda, was the initial version of the Mediation Law, on the Commission, advocated that the then-legislative institution, which is now and now here, is the BiH Mediator's Association to take over these affairs, so I have advocated that this is not defined by the Mediation Act, but that the Mediation Law opens up a space for the state to, therefore, that BiH can give in, or pass a law on the admission of these matters. Here's Mr. Ćeman in that sense and proposed a law like this, with what I have to say is that this law, given that I have to comment on the article 105. In some ways, this law has one inconsistencies in it. Here, practically, the Ministry of Justice is given the right to, on request, mean any association of mediators, which meets the conditions that it is registered throughout the BiH territory, etc. therefore, the possibility of the Ministry of Justice foaming these affairs to such an association, and then Article 3 of this law says that we are transferring it, that is, the Parliamentary Assembly is foaming this business to this association. Then if it is not now, I must say in principle if it is done by the Ministry of Justice, then it is done by the Ministry of Justice, if it is done by the Parliamentary Assembly, then it should always be done by the Parliamentary Assembly. That's one of the reasons why we won't support procedure 105, and the other reason is that we, as a club, especially when it comes to MPs' proposals, means individual proposals, are not willing to support procedure 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15313	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman, replica. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15314	It's not a replica, it's a proposition, actually an explanation. My kolega Novaković and I, of course, had in mind our earlier objections that we were resolving the laws under Article 105, had this in mind, but decided to propose because of the following. This is not a large law, and in truth an important institute such as dispute resolution, the method of mediation, simply now is not able to apply for what there is reason to rush this law. But obviously I don't think you understand, or I may not have written clearly enough in Article 2. Namely, the essence is the following in Article 2. The transfer of mediation is based on a request. The application shall be submitted to the Ministry of Justice. A solution to the law that the Ministry of Justice as a Resolute Ministry to say about this issue is preparing for the amendments to the law, therefore, this law in case, at some point in time besides the present association, there is someone else who will be registered and in the form of amendments to the law, only an x association new would be added in Article 3. And in that case, therefore, this assembly, or Parliament, rather than the Ministry of Justice, decides on the transfer of jurisdiction. As a result, the provision may be unclear, but it is simply said here, I repeat, that the application is submitted to the ministry, and it prepares the proposal and uniquely puts it in the procedure, of course, as the laws are being prepared by the procedure they are going to. I, of course, won't mind if you decide that the law goes into regular procedure, but I am convinced and again pleading to accept Article 105. It is not possible at least to make some fundamental improvements to this text do, because it opens up the possibility, not only for this association of mediators but for all others, and therefore this consideration by regular procedure, I think it would be just a waste of time, but, of course, the decision is at this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15315	Thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15316	When we discussed this law, you know that I was proposing that a decision be made on the implementation of this law, I would say, a duty to the mediators' association. Then it was said that under the law passed, within 60 days, a complete procedure would be adopted, etc. and, since this has not been passed, and the law on mediation would necessarily be necessary, if anything else is necessary to relieve the present courts, I think that this proposal, too, means in the spirit of what I have proposed acceptable to this Parliament, in order for this mediation to begin and that simply all affairs in the court are certainly being burdened today by courts to be transferred to mediation and to be completed. I think that the first example of mediation we had right in Banja Luka, where certain mediation agreements managed to agree on some things, but unfortunately, it did not come into force as an obligation for people to express their will and desire for the court to grant. Here is the quality of what is said is not only this association, but other associations, if they appear, and I have to say that by asking about this mediation, I have come up with information that the BiH Midianiator Association is a single mediator at the level of BiH, so at least that question is defined. That is why I propose that Parliament not to argue that we should plead for procedure 105 or that it is a regular procedure and that we go to the next point. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15317	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the procedure, i.e. a request from the applicant, for this proposal to be considered under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. So he's got a general majority. He's got most of the Federation, no RS. Can we agree? We have no consent in the College. We don't have the current consent, but we'll be in business within three days. If there is no agreement, then only the MPs who are against and please from both entities are now pleading. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15318	We have to vote on the entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15319	There is, 8 is against the RS. Please, I'll repeat the vote. Don't make any remarks. I'm asking the MPs who are against it, that's what I said they vote on. Vote now. Do we have a problem with technique? I ask the advocates not to have any misunderstandings from the RS entity who's against raising their hand? So, the request for a procedure under Article 105 submitted by the legislator, Mr Mirsad Ćeman, was accepted. Now we're discussing the law itself. For the request to be rejected, there should have been two-thirds of one of the entities, it was not. Please discipline in the vote, so we don't repeat it three times. Here, indeed, if you have a problem with technique, please signal service, to remove it. So, does anyone else need to discuss it? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15320	Well, you see, I've stated, I've talked more about the procedure, which is why we're not going to be in the process under Article 105. I have to say that what I was committed to back then on the committee, and even now, I didn't get enough persuasion, it's just this association. I asked the commission to provide me with the structure of the mediators, so they as an association must have both the territorial structure of the mediators and the national and every other structure. Unfortunately, I couldn't get that data back on the board, which defined me on the commission to go along with these amendments. I have to say I don't have that structure today and I don't know how many mediators are in the RS, how much from the Federation, how much from Banja Luka, how much from Tuzla, how much from Sarajevo, etc. So there are a number of questions that I would have to have here in front of me to answer these questions, in order to entrust this kind of serious business to this association. So, I don't think I have anything against this association, but I believe that we would trust, in order for Parliament to trust someone with the job, it has to be a little bit more about who it trusts to do the job. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15321	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation jobs to a mediators' association. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. Vote now. So he has a general majority, no entity. We're going to a statement in the second round. Only MPs who are against it vote. Vote now. There's a problem, we'll vote manually, I can't do anything else. Vote now. Only those who are against in the second round vote. So, from Federation 3 against, from entity RS 10. The law in the second round is not accepted. Moving to point 3. Ad.4. The request of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, also under procedure 105. The bill was submitted to you on 15.11. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15322	I would say very briefly on behalf of the Commission, because this is as it says here, the Commission proposal, the Administrative Commission and the House of Representatives and the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples. It is our understanding of one failure that it is not foreseen by the law that employees are entitled to certain benefits, based on severe disability or illness. So, we agreed on the Commission to go from this home, to propose to be a commission, and we signed Mr. Nada Radović and I would ask my colleagues not to conduct any procedure, because we in the administrative committees have these demands that we need to address. We think it's legal in progress, why don't we legislate it, but that individual employees or deputies are addressing commissions for some fee. That's settled at entity level.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15323	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone. Here you go. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15324	... MPs, distinguished guests, of course, I appreciate the work of our commission, relating to points 4 and 5. I think it's good that this matter is regulated legally and clear to me the ambitions of the commission and I know what the commission of opportunity meant when it wanted this to be regulated legally. That's actually suggested. We've got one, let's say, letter in which the first High Representative warns us that certain misunderstandings could cause if nothing at least communication between us and OHR, which would not be on the line, let's say, by their seeing good laws. That's why I think it would be good for us to remove any misunderstandings, get to a good law, get the Commission to accept Article 104's procedure. There may be 14 that no one has any amendments, but enough time is left, even if the commission sits with the OHR and sees what these remarks are or accepts them or does not accept them. I'm afraid if today we adopt in accordance with Article 105 that we will open up different possibilities for different media interpretations, speculations, etc. Needless. So, I ask, if the Commission agrees to accept, that it has the request of Article 104. We're not gonna waste much time, and we're gonna do a good thing from my point of view. Here, that's my suggestion. If there is a mood, if not, the House will make the decision it will make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15325	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, similar to what Mr. Špirić said, I've been reading this letter and I'm surprised that someone didn't consult in a certain way about this. And my question should be, did the College read this letter, saw and tried to interpret it here today, what weights it would be, if, or what weights it would be... that's the one question I was going to ask, because it's about the opportunity and the next law. So this one, number 4, and the one under number 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15327	Mr. Džaferović will state the position of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15328	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, that we have received this letter and that we have followed everything that has happened to this law and, since these are things which, among other things, relate to the administrative settlement of relations within the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that we have considered this issue and taken a stand. So there are certain questions that need to be specified. Like, say, maternity leave and some other things, and it's good that these laws have come to the parliamentary procedure, but in my opinion, and the College needs certain clarifications in the law itself, in order to avoid possible abuses about who determines what it is called, the amount of compensation, the extent of the rights themselves, and we appreciate that the law should not be adopted today under this emergency procedure under Article 105, but that it is necessary to do so in some other procedure. The College suggests that it should be under Article 104, which would allow amendments to be made and law-making, in the way that it is realistic at this time in BiH, and we suggest that we adopt the procedure under Article 104, i.e. as a College, we can suggest to our committees, which are legislators, that they themselves say it is a procedure under Article 104, and that then, I say we have the possibility that, in collaboration with the relevant institutions of the international community, we can make the text of a law that will be acceptable. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15329	Thank you very much. Mr. Muhamed Altić picked up the phone. Here you go, Mr. Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15330	I think this law is necessary, but the concept of a serious disease itself, it is such a broad term that such a law would be difficult to apply in practice, very difficult and I agree with the predecessors that this law should go into regular procedure and then differentiate that these are serious diseases, because the 15 disability problems have been resolved. You know the category of disability, that's what you know, but serious illness is hard. As a doctor today, I couldn't tell you what all these diseases are, but I could tell you that there's one hundred at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15331	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15332	Mine's like Mr. Muhamed. We need to define what a serious disease is. Surely in this case, the norm must be precise. And, secondly, what Parliament should avoid constantly, wherever it is possible that it does not give authority to the executive authority to determine some fees. That's the rule. And very rarely, it gives the government or the Council of Ministers the opportunity to determine the fees. This Parliament determines or determines some criteria for the work of a body, rather than the work of an executive body. That would be my remark, so in further discussion, probably in that direction should be directed by the Amandan procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15333	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15334	I thank the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to point out that this proposal has also been discussed by the Commission for the achievement of gender equality and at the time of the finding, estimating that there is no dilemma that Article 36 should be accepted. The BiH institutions' labour law, which speaks of the extension of maternity leave, thus bringing employees to a level playing field in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, in relation to entity employees. So this is about a single amendment, whose adoption of the law today would eliminate the discriminatory position of employees in women's institutions in BiH, in order to protect children and motherhood. When it comes to this second article, which concerns severe disability and disease, I would also like to state, the Commission's view that we also had these dilemmas about the clarity of the application of the provision in terms of clarifying this serious disability and serious illness and, in that sense, we have also concluded, if there is a dilemma today, that this will create certain misunderstandings in the realisation of the law itself, that it would be good for the House to determine in this sense that this amendment and the addition of the law is being discussed under Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15335	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15336	I thank the chairman, kolegica and colleagues, I am one of three MPs in the state parliament, who is not a civil servant and who does not receive a salary in Parliament, and I would ask you to keep that in mind, given my discussion, but I will not speak as someone who lives here and in some way its existence depends on this Parliament, but as an economist who appreciates that the way to approach issues such as these, which are listed in the proposed law, or supplementing the law, that this way leads us to the 16 wrong path. I believe that the issues mentioned here, of course in another formulation, some of them, as already said in the previous discussion, deserve, indeed, one attention in resolving these issues, but what this Parliament needs to take special care of, that in such solutions and in order to create effective institutions, therefore Parliament too, and these are not only parliamentarians but also many services served by state institutions, that in such a way of resolution we should not ignore the financial aspect. I would like to point out in particular that any, I will now say on behalf of the Party for BiH, that we will not support any changes to any law, which would be an additional financial burden on the budget, without denying the need for many things, both in the position of civil servants, especially those employed in the services of the state service to be resolved, or in some way to increase the efficiency of the work of these institutions. In addition to such a request, I will mention to you that this Parliament, unfortunately, has never put on the agenda a question of its effectiveness. Not in the sense of legal provisions, decisions, etc. but in terms of efficiency in the financial structure, as usual in Parliament's state budget will be provided for this Parliament. So, for example. I will mention that when an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from BiH, we haven't had a secretary to follow the delegation for several months, he solves not technical but key and essential and administrative issues concerning meeting BiH's obligations in the Council of Europe. I remind you, we are no associated member, we are not a guest, we are not an observer, we are a full member just like the UK and other member states. Not to give details of what it means not to operate certain services, some, the inability to say that we find appropriate solutions in some existing or some envisaged job systematization, which is why we have people who are two or three years old on temporary engagement in parliamentary services, acting as their own business, or doing their job in a scale with such status, which is neither good for Parliament nor for such people who are in such a single vacuum. My colleagues and colleagues, I do not deny that the issue needs to be resolved and the position of civil servants is also the position of civil servants, that civil servants solve some life issues, whether through these types of social benefits, the category we have been used to for years has been referred to for generations or, possibly in some other way, but within the framework of the financial structure provided for by this Parliament, this issue that deserves a special debate. And I therefore suggest that we from the BiH Party, that no bill, which concerns such issues, should be considered outside communication directly with the resolution ministry, the finance ministry and the vault.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15337	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Before I give my word to Mr Zorić, here, apart from the debate on the content of the law, was the suggestion of the College to change the application for procedure to the speedy procedure of 104 because there is, apparently, arguments that certain solutions should be specified in this law. Here, we can't do this without you. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15338	I, of course, have no right to say on behalf of the Commission that it goes for 104 or I will say that. Whoever has the right to say it. I'm worried about one other thing. If someone thinks this should go for 104, then let them make other changes and supplement, and even change these ones, which are predicted to be 105. However, it seems to me that some MPs here are not in favour of a solution, which is... and that is different, is that these things are being solved from their personal pockets. You said it, you said it very clearly, and I understood it. I don't understand you sometimes, but I understand you perfectly now. Let this be voted upon, let it fail, for 17 obviously we are not too rich, and there are many of us here MPs who do not depend on the Parliamentary Assembly. So, if we weren't professionally employed here, we'd be somewhere else professionally employed and doing this job professionally, and we wouldn't be in a hurry to go to class and not be late to Parliament's lectures.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15339	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. We heard Mr. Zorić. So there's no request for a change of procedure right now. Therefore, we now declare a request for a procedure under Article 105. I ask the representatives to plead on the request of the Administrative Commission. To consider the draft law supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Please vote now. So, the request has a general majority, it's from the Federation, it's not from the RS. Can we agree? So we're going to the second round of pleas. Only MPs who are against it declare themselves. I ask MPs who are against procedure 105 to vote. Vote now. Therefore, the request of the Administrative Commission for this law to be considered by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, was accepted. Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the law itself. Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15340	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I came to this position in which I am now, because I think it was a smarter solution to consider the question, which, otherwise, needs to be specified in Parliament, in a way that the solutions offered in the law are prepared, or the offices, in a way that is normal when the laws are written, but in a situation where I put myself in a position to take or leave what is before me, I will say that I will vote against this law and the next law that is on the agenda for the following reasons. And, I urge, of course, Parliament to vote against. Be careful, the law supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions says in Article 1. To add a decimal behind the word "death" and add the words "difficulty disability or disease". This is what we were talking about when we talked about the procedure. I didn't want to talk when we talked about procedure. I'm talking about the essence now. I ask you, which committee is it and which institution, which will apply that provision tomorrow in practice. What is a severe disability or illness? I've been, I've already said it here a few times for a pay phone, a long time judge and never a serious or easy physical injury and a severe or easy disability I was able to determine alone without a court expert medical profession. Now are we going to turn into an institution that's going to insert every particular case or we're going to write a law in which we're going to count these diseases. So this law is not applicable as it is and it must contain a precise standard. And, secondly, how many institutions in the state will we mandate to determine the amount of compensation. The fee is said to be determined by the Council of Ministers' act and then said, or by an act of the BiH institution. We all know what BiH institutions are. We will leave it to every BiH institution individually. I think it's inadmissible and it has to be arranged. I agree with a colleague who spoke about 18 parliaments and the Council of Ministers. Parliament, of course, should do so, but the legal solution is now that it is the Council of Ministers and I think it should be stopped there. You can't go any further. These are just some of the reasons why this solution is unacceptable to me. We're, of course, going to be second-end here in a row and, right now, there are some things that I look favorably at and I would have missed and I said it was a maternity leave for well-known reasons. But in a package with this, as it is, it's unacceptable for me, I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15341	Thank you. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15342	Mr. Chairman, my dear fellow Members, I am sorry that before the vote, it is not a matter of attention to one Commission report, which is our commission and which is nothing less important, it is the Commission for Gender Equality, which is sitting, which is very important, which was held on November 22nd, so before the letter, which came here. On that committee, we looked at the amendments to both laws, agreed that it was in our jurisdiction and normal and human to equalise the length of maternity leave for women working in institutions, common bodies with entity laws, but also after a comprehensive debate, we reached the following conclusions unanimously. So we support maternity leave for 12 months, support Article 50 changes. The bill, with the Commission's view that the conclusion of the House should be made by the Council of Ministers of BiH, to define what is meant by severe disability and serious illness. In addition to that, Mr. Nakaš was just speaking, who said that the relative thing is what is difficult and that there can be made a difference. Our third conclusion was, if it were to be estimated that these definitions should be contained in the law, the Commission considers that this proposal would be well considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So we didn't pay attention to anything our commission said earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15343	You had the chance, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15344	I thought the chairman of the Commission would report, and we all got the minutes from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15345	I apologize, but it was possible, ma'am, I didn't want to interrupt you, but if you do, but those arguments were partly presented and there was a possibility of that. Who wants to move on around this law? Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15346	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like us in this room to divide ourselves into those who are in favour, and who are against, especially this member of the family. I think most of the people sitting in this room are meant to extend it to 12 months, but I don't think members or president of the Administrative Commission have currently respected the desire of all of us to improve this law a little bit, and especially these members who are concerned about what is a serious disease, or a difficult disability to explain. I know that this law must be voted on now, but I think at this point in the agenda, we should say that the law returns to the Administrative Commission, with 19 opportunities for it to be delivered at the next session under Article 104 and the Administrative Commission to report this home again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15347	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are now in the procedure we have entered, we decide, here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15348	I think the members of the Commission of the House of Finance and Administrative Affairs, as well as the members here are some present, and some do not, from the Administrative Commission of this House will not mind, if Mr Džaferović, Altić or any of the MPs make a bill of 105th and write there what this means under severe disability or illness. I hear someone gets hurt and gets hurt more easily every day. How they report to the police, and they can't tell the Administrative Commission or the House of Representatives what it is to be disabled, what it is to be treated as an easier disease, easier injury, etc. I hear it on the radio and on TV every day. That there was an accident and that it was five easier and three more seriously injured, and nobody here heard it in Parliament else. So, I'll allow it, and as an agent, I don't have anyone here and nobody gives me any privilege of these employees. This isn't about representation rights. I don't get no one in my office when I'm going on a trip, I come to the cashier's office, they carry others. So, it's not like I'm courting anyone here. I defend the Commission's position and, please, it's about employees. We can refuse or not, and then it is known that they no longer have the right to submit any demands to the Administrative Commission, when a child is in pain, he has a serious illness. From what I've heard, it's a serious disease, I don't need a doctor for it, and I don't have to be a doctor to know it's a serious disease. So I accept that this is defined on the basis of the next session and immediately after 105th amendments and additions to this same law. We don't have to argue and push something into a regular procedure or by 104, so no one will report until the next session to make up for what we've brought today. Therefore, it can go and specify and the Commission has no objection. I just said that I have no right as an individual on behalf of the Commission to go in regular and by 104 and I don't blame anyone who votes against and I don't do this for any personal but human reasons and I will be in favour.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15349	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. The debate is closed. We have a report now. Mrs. Mubera Ušanović has now appeared.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15350	It wasn't probably registered. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in this case I played an ungrateful role in being a member of both the Administrative Commission and a member of the Commission on Gender Equality. When we discussed the amendments to the law mentioned on the Administrative Commission, we were really handling human reasons, and that was why we proposed amending and supplementing the law, and in accordance with Article 105, since there were already three requests for help and this law we should practically legalise, I don't know whether fellow MPs, lawyers would agree with this expression, because we were told that there were practical problems to meet the requirements, and without amending this law. I was on the Administrative Commission for Article 105 so it wouldn't be a waste of time. 20 When we held a meeting of the Commission on Gender Equality, as Col. Milićević said before a letter from the Office of the High Representative, we were then after discussion of Dr. Nakaš, who said it was difficult to determine what was a serious disease, disability, without expertise, so that abuse could occur. On that commission, we agreed to go into procedure 104. Now I would really like to avoid the possibility of self-consistency as a person who will vote for this or that, and I will be abstention in this vote, precisely because I had this ruthless role that I am in both committees. I voted one commission for 105 and the other 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15351	Thank you very much. Mr. Altić, then Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15352	Dear Presidency, I apologize for having to say my opinion again. I mean, the law, as far as maternity care is concerned, is quite in place here, so is our social situation that we really need to pass a law like this. We don't have social protection for those pregnant mothers, the maternity parents, we don't. As for this second part, where we don't know how to decide. Let me tell you something. This is where the concepts are unclear. Invalidity knows exactly what it is. And you know exactly what a bodily injury is, what is lighter and what is severe. There's no speculation or speculation about it. But, please, in the world's disease nomenclature, there are no severe diseases. He's got leading diseases that make him die. Therefore, we would need an institution that would give us a list of these serious diseases. If we don't have that, then we're gonna have a lot of speculation with that. Here's just take how many patients in BiH have the consequences of wartime events, post-war syndrome. I don't think a law could be passed without it, in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15353	Thank you, Mr. Altić. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15354	At one point, it seemed to me that we were getting closer and that we could not refuse this law if it was further explained. When it comes to Mr. Džafrović's remarks whether it determines the height of the Council of Ministers or institutions, I believe the Council of Ministers' decision is a limit to the above, and the institutions can also agree on a lower fee. In that case, it seems to me that this amendment of the law stands. Also, if we accept in principle that compensation can be made in the event of severe disability or serious illness, we can now let it go in law, and by subsequent amendment, what Mr Zorić suggested, we can make a definition of what is considered a serious disability and a difficult... I mean in some subsequent law on the amendment of the law on these rights. So, if we are, in principle, standing by, I say this more so that people can vote on their conscience, if it stands in principle, that if it's a serious disability or a serious disease, that, if we're going to accept it, we can subsequently determine the definition.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15355	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Here, we had the opportunity to hear enough arguments about both the procedure and the law and the solutions. I propose that we now move to a statement on the text itself of the 21st Law on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH. I'm asking the MPs to vote now. Vote now. Therefore, the law did not receive the necessary general majority and was not accepted. Moving to point 5. Ad.5. The request of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in BiH institutions, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. And this proposal, as before, was delivered to you on November 11th. Now we are discussing the procedure whether we should accept that we should consider it in the procedure of Article 105. I think it's the same argument as the last one, that we've exhausted the debate. Thank you very much for understanding. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the request of the Administrative Commission to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the labour law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the House to make a statement by voting. Vote now. So the request for procedure didn't get the general majority and this request goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to point 6. Ad.6. A request from the BiH Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The BiH presidency's Rules of Procedure delivered this law on 23.11. you received this morning with the materials. The extended College has classified this, appreciating the justified acceptance of the procedure and entering into consideration of this law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to declare the Bureau's request that the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH be considered by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. I agree that with 29 votes in favour of, 3 against, without the abstentions of the abstentions, we have accepted the request of the BiH Presidency, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Central Bank of BiH Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.7. Proposal for a law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, civil servants and others employed in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, in the first reading, I would like Novaković remind you, before the debate opens, that we are the proposal of this law, that we have been delivered 12.4. appropriate to discuss this legislative proposal is the Joint Commission for Security Policy. Her report was delivered to us on 11.11. And on the same day it was forwarded to you. As you have seen, the Commission has adopted as many as 38 amendments to the Bill's proposal, so you have also been informed of the consolidated text of the Bill's proposal, with the amendments incorporated, adopted by the relevant Commission. In the plenary phase of the amendment, representatives: Mr Jozo Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Selim Bešlagić. It's two groups of amendments. Amendments challenging a number of Commissions and amendments which are called for under Article 94(3)(a) shall mean 22 new aspects. We're in the reading process now. I'm opening the debate. We'll ask the departments to check for optimal temperature, here's 19 here you've heard. So the debate is open. There's no record of a hearing. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15356	Mr. Chairman, honored guests, I am on one committee, and that is what the Foreign Affairs Commission has been thinking and simply discussing the title of this law. The title should synthetically express the content and subject matter of this law. A title like this, which ends with words and other activities abroad, can take you far away. So to banalize that simply who's gone, I don't know what the basics, to fight somewhere in the Rwandan war, etc. So I'm banalizing. I purposely lead to absurdity, so I would suggest that any inaccuracies in this law be avoided, which requires a truly clear definition. I have proposed, the law can bear on the participation of armed forces, police units, civil servants and other representatives of BiH, it cannot be any employee and other representatives of BiH in peacekeeping missions and can be added to humanitarian operations, but in this respect, but in peacekeeping missions. And, in that context, avoid the inaccuracies of this law. I would ask the promoter to take this seriously, so I repeat once again, the participation of armed forces, police units, civil servants and other representatives of BiH on peacekeeping missions, should not be said abroad, it is known that it is abroad. I'm talking about amendments, I'm talking about the consolidated text of the law. I'm talking about the consolidated text of the law with amendments already made at the commission stage. Furthermore, Article 2 allows you to maybe be able to, that is, detail one, which is not significant, but objectively implements, say and comply with the International Law standards, so I guess they should respect first and then implement the International Law standards. A few more details, practically, we are now... but the objective position of the Presidency, which was given him a significant place in this law is depressing for every review. Namely, the Bureau should keep us informed, together with the Council of Ministers every six months on the condition, the numerous state of the units, on the use of these units, on simple logistics, on the support of these units etc. It's really inappropriate. We have the Council of Ministers and it is an executive body that has chosen simply the BiH Parliament and in this context should be left to it. I really mean possible, you can't look through the prism of members of the presidency etc. simply release the Presidency, and make the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries mandatory to report to this Parliament. Here, you simply read this Article 9 so you will see that objectively it is under question and the fact that twice as many amendments have been given than this law has members, enough points to the seriousness and approach in the commission phase, but, behold, I would ask if it is possible for the motioner to consider these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15357	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15358	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to stress that we really appreciate the fact that today we are discussing a very important law for BiH. I believe that by coming to the agenda of the law, BiH is being legitimateized as a credible candidate for the Partnership for Peace. 23 I would also like to point out that we appreciate the efforts and the proposings, in particular the Commission, which discussed a number of amendments and adopted 38 amendments to the proposal for a law containing 14 articles. In addition, we appreciate that this law lacks three important things for us, which we have tried to make in our amendments to the amendments to the Commission and to the specific amendments, which have not been incorporated into the Bill proposal, which includes a whole new area, which is the area of residence and deployment of foreign, foreign military forces, police forces and other officials in BiH. So, in order not to be longer, I should say three key things, because today we are discussing principles and principles, that in this law, therefore, the very title is missing, above all, in addition to military members, police forces, therefore, one very important group is missing. This is considered very important to be the situation in the law, because it is one of the very important groups, which can occur in all the conditions of elemental and dramatic disasters, which are used in the world and may sometimes go before military and police forces. We considered it necessary to specifically process one area, as I said the stay of foreign missions in BiH. As you have seen today, we have a peacekeeping mission organised by the UN, which is now being replaced by the EU Peace Mission. We have a situation that in the future, I believe through various other needs and arrangements we will need to receive various missions in BiH. This law is a tiring opportunity for the issue of stationing, deployment and action of foreign armed forces, police and other officials in BiH's peacekeeping operations to be regulated legally. This is a good opportunity. We have in this sense made a proposal to supplement this law. Therefore, it is necessary to create a legitimate form and a basis to specify the obligations of domestic authorities on the one hand and foreigners on the other. As a sovereign state of BiH, the law should regulate as well as other issues of supervision over the implementation of these operations. I mean, that would be, on occasion, three fundamental remarks to the law. I forgot another very important remark, that we believe that the country of BiH, as a country that seeks parliamentary democracy and parliamentary establishment of the country, is in this sense more important to Parliament and that all relevant decisions, final decisions are made by Parliament, and that here both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency appear in the status of proposing those who determine the proposals for decisions that will ultimately need to be confirmed by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15359	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Živković answered his word. Let Mr. Huskić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15360	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this is about the first reading of this law, about whether this law and its principles are needed here, I want to say that I think this law is necessary and necessary. The debate over the last year has shown that this law is necessary. I welcome fellow Novaković who has proposed this law and I do not want to enter into the fact that there are 38 amendments on 15 members, I just want to say that every MP here when he gives the initiative, it should be welcomed, and the final text of the law through the Commission and through this Parliament will certainly be installed if the law is well-willed to be passed. 24 On the other hand, when it comes to the principles of this law, it seems to me, and we have discussed that on the Foreign Affairs Commission, when there was... a minister with us, that parts of the law, or individual members, have a certain collegiation with the Defence Act that we have brought here, and I recommend that either the Ministry or the Proposer at the next session, when this law is in the second reading, submits amendments and additions to the Defence Act by, if necessary, the 105th procedure so that together one and the other law may be adopted, so that they may be of quality and not be in college and to mention, I also said to the Commission for Article 3.b. I believe that this 60-day provision can be brought under a 30-day rule, that it does not need the Parlmentary Assembly to wait 60 days to discuss the need itself, or to decide that the Presidency should send its forces somewhere and that this 60-day distance can be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15361	Thank you very much. The word was asked for by Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15362	I, Mr. Chairman, volunteered only briefly to say as a member of the Commission, that this law was the Commission, this joint commission of both homes, which numbers six members from our home, six from the House of Peoples, that seven times it met, referred to seven of its meetings, and discussed this law. That, I guess, is what my colleagues don't know. It is also visible here from the number of amendments that have been submitted to the initial text of the law how much time has been spent. Also, I think it is necessary to publicly say Mr Novaković's positive relationship as a proposing who accepted the amendments and if he was not obliged, he did not have to, so that this law, which is now here before us, or the Commission report, practically leaves 90% of the initial text of the law. I respect everything that my colleagues have said, as possible shortcomings, but I want to say my position here. This is the maximum that could have been achieved on the commission. The komisja unanimously adopted him. Also, the Foreign Affairs Commission, and I don't think we have much space to build on. I suggest we support this text to shorten the whole story.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15363	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15364	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, I join everything that a member of the Commission has said about BiH's defence and security policy, Mr Huskić, in his discussion and, indeed, it is the Commission's position. So here is the proposer of the law Mr. Novaković, but he said that this law is a joint act of all the members of the Commission, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security and I, here I am taking the opportunity to thank the Proposer and the Commission, indeed for a very active relationship between the Ministry of Defence and this and the Minister and both the Deputys and the Ministry of Security. And, I think, after a number of meetings of this commission, there has been one text of the law, which will on the one hand satisfy existing legal decisions in BiH, above all the Law on Defence and you know right away, I am not in favour of the amendment of the Law on Defence in this area and, on the other hand, the needs of BiH, democratic aspirations in the role of Parliament, although the Law on Defence also gives an appropriate role to Parliament in this area and that this is respected through this law itself. 25 The Commission therefore moved from an opportunity on the way from the need to comply with the law, under which the country's presidency makes a decision to the role of Parliament in democratic control of BiH's defence and security structures. And this law is the answer to these questions and, in my opinion, the only or best possible solution. Just to remind you, then, this law, we wanted first of all to settle the issue of participation in peace support operations and other activities abroad, the process of withdrawing forces from peacekeeping missions and other operations abroad, the way of funding, the rights of people who go abroad to peacekeeping missions, but the key question in front of us is, in fact, this. Who makes the decision and who participates in all this, and for this reason we held seven meetings of the Commission. And finally, the Commission, I would only ask for a little attention, therefore, to conclude what, has concluded what has been optimally obtained from the BiH Ministry of Defence, following a number of amendments in the light of their readings on the amendments. So operations to support peace and other activities, which BiH is to carry out, divided into seven groups, are conflict prevention operations, three with three types of operations, preserving the peace of three species, operations to establish peace-building, four items. Then, participation in the activities of international, security and defence organisations, which BiH has joined on the basis of international contracts, which do not involve these activities. Here, above all, it is thought of membership in the OSCE and the Partnership for Peace and NATO Alliance for Future, then humanitarian operations, as independent operations in the case of natural technical and technological and environmental accidents, participation in military escapes and training based on international state contracts and the removal of terrorist attacks. The Commission believes that the best solution, a solution that will be respected and the Defence Act, is the solution that, when it comes to involving members of the BiH representative's participation in activities marked under point 1, 2. 3 and 7 are conflict prevention operations, peace-preservation operations, implementation and peace-building operations and the removal of the consequences of terrorist attacks, the decision is taken by the BiH Presidency, but such a decision must be considered by Parliament within 60 days and unless Parliament confirms that decision, the decision is considered withdrawn. As far as the activities marked under point 4 are concerned, they are activities in international security and defence organisations, whose BiH is a member, the removal of hum. the operation, in humanitarian operations, as independent operations in the case of natural and technical, technical and technological or environmental accidents, and when it comes to eliminating the consequences of terrorist attacks, the decision shall be taken by the competent ministries. In this way, the Commission has maintained the operational and administrative command of the BiH presidency's state institutions over the armed forces, on the one hand, and put Parliament in an active role when it comes to democratic control of the BiH defence and security sector. I am not for changing the Law on Defence, for the reason that the chain of operational and administrative command we took care of and discussed in December 2003, when we adopted the Defence Act. Therefore, the operational and administrative command and the control of the BiH Armed Forces must have its experimental power, must be in full capacity and cannot be limited by any law, and it is not by chance that this responsibility, when it comes to administrative and operational command given in the jurisdiction of the Presidency of the State and therefore I was against it and, behold, the Commission eventually accepted that decision that the Presidency of the State would be, because what we are talking about also falls within the chain of administrative and operational command and control over the armed forces of BiH. We cannot put the authorities in the BiH state, who are in charge of this very important area, in the position of blocking any law. But on the other hand, I was also in favour of the proper role of 26 Parliaments in the democratic control process, and this is what was offered to Parliament in the next 60 days at the end and finally to have the last word in these operations that I was talking about, concerning sending units to peacekeeping missions abroad. I think this is the highlight of what could have been achieved in the Commission as a solution. Once again, I thank all those who participated, especially I say to the Ministry of Defence, because it has played a particularly prominent role here and I believe that the law should be adopted in this text without any amendments. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15365	I thank Mr. Džaferović. If there were no more reports, I would also say that the Foreign Affairs Commission of our home was on the agenda. You have received, I think this report, it considered this as responsible for BiH's co-operation issues with the UN, otherwise co-operation with multilateral organisations, because this is not only about the military dimension, but also about BiH's participation, as a responsible international entity in processes and operations defined within the roof multilateral assemblies, primarily by the UN. We also unanimously supported the bill. They have found that an enormous effort has been made through several Commission sessions and ensuring co-operation with the Ministry of Defence and I think that the solutions that define what operations are, the way decisions are made, status issues and others, are indeed one solid legal basis for good governance of these processes and decisions. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15366	...I had a feeling that I wasn't really understood in one way. I also stressed on the commission my support and gratitude to MP Novaković that this law came before parliament and it is not controversial and this law needs Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not disputed either. My only suggestion is to remove any inaccuracies in this law. If I read it to you, but given my colleague Džaferović's discussion, I don't have much room for manoeuvre, nor any chance of making it with my suggestion. But I read once again the last part of the title of the law that says – State and other employees and other employees in peace support operations, even though it's called Peace missions, and I don't know who invented this title, etc. Because the Peace Mission was the usual title for these actions and other activities abroad. I repeat once more other activities abroad. Total inaccuracy. If it is not clear to Parliament, then it is unfortunately real. And other activities abroad. I plead once more, so the law's outcome is that representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina go abroad. No private mission, etc. These are all representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there aren't any other employees. What other employee? In which organs, etc. etc.? Now that's mine, I mean a suggestion if I can get rid of these inaccuracies. I once again thank and support the law. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15367	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. I understand the meaning of your intervention. There are also the promoter and representatives of the Ministry of Defence. I'd like them to say something about that, too, if there's any need. 27 Before that, Mr. Križanović asked for a word, so Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15368	I also apologize for reporting on the same wheel for the second time. But I would like to be clear before we move to a vote on this law in the first reading whether the House and how the House will be determined about our proposals in terms of changes to the very principles and principles of this law. I pointed out that we find it very important, let's say, to include in this civil protection law as a very important organisation that will act on ino missions when it comes to various humanitarian actions or elemental disasters or disasters. Secondly, we also consider a very important, brand-new chapter of the law that we have defined as the stationing and settlement and operation of foreign armed forces of police and officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. This chapter would be contained in four amendments. So we're legitimateizing ourselves as a country subject, not as an object that any foreign mission in this country can come to us that no one knows in this country or has signed it. And thirdly, we believe, contrary to what counterpart Džaferović was saying, we believe that decisions, final decisions, cannot be made by any body other than the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are the three key things we've worked out in a dozen amendments, and I think if these principles don't apply, I really couldn't support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15369	So there's Mr. Križanović, the business intervention Džaferović, and then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15370	I just need that, not this replica I don't have the replicas of the previous two discussions, just to give one business intervention. So, we're discussing the law today in our first reading and the law is what we have after seven Commission sessions and I'm not, I'm saying bill promoter, I'm just the vice-president of this commission who's here to submit a report to the Commission in front of this house. Mr. Avdić's intervention is too late and I don't want to do it, there's no need to interpret it, because there's no amendment in that direction. The amendment phase is closed. When it comes to Mr Križanović's intervention, there are appropriate amendments that have followed his discussion and will certainly be made known to the House. The second thing is what kind of attitude we're going to take, but that's the kind of thing the House is going to say anyway. I don't think anything has been said that's contrary to what I've been saying here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15371	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković, we have a request from Deputy Minister Mrs. Pendeš, so you will eventually, sir, be registered, as a proposer, I think. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15372	Since the deputy has come forward, I would like to refer two short questions here, in line with what we have spoken to the Commission. Please tell us here in front of everyone if this law is in one of the, one part of some members of the college with the Defense Act? Should the Defense Act be in line with what we've been saying and what we are, what we have here to change? And second, knowing of the inability to retroactiveness of the fact of the law does this law give us enough space to discuss here in the BiH Parliament our demining unit to Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15373	Thank you very much. Ms Marina Pendeš, Deputy Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, Mrs. Pendeš. Here, you can wait. Business, here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15374	Here are two years after staying in this House, then I do not really understand the purpose and purpose of the debate in the first reading. If we're only discussing what the Commission's report is and what the original proposal is, then this debate doesn't make sense. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15375	Well, you see, Mr. Križanović, we've had this as a request from several MPs and we have a business procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure and these are questions for there.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15376	I'm talking about whether we should stick to the Rules of Procedure right now or we're going to talk normally about the bill here. If you can't come up with new proposals that fertilise the principles and principles of the law then this really debate doesn't make sense. I wanted so much and I don't need an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15377	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15378	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and MPs, and I may, in part, repeat the discussion of the distinguished members of this joint committee, but I would like to pay attention to the very title of the law where it says this is a bill on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces and police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad. So in the title itself is clearly defined and reconciled what Mr. Križanović wants, which is when it comes to civil protection. Only the Law on Local Self-Government, or Law on 29 State Service, clearly recognizes civil servants and employees. Since members of civil protection through local self-government are defined as civil servants, i.e. employees, at least so are in the municipality from which I come organized meanings within the municipality. That's why they're recognized. Like Mr Džaferović in his clarification of Article 2 where there is a clear explanation of what peace support operations are and what other activities are. I think that if we read these seven operations again for a little while again, there may be some peace support operations and some other activities. Peace support operations mean participation, active participation of armed forces. In the case of civil servants, employees, even police officers, they may participate in these other operations defined in Articles 4, 5, and 6. So Article 1 is not an article but Article 2(1), (2), (3) and (3), and 7 means peace support operations, 4th, 5th, and 6th are activities. When it is, it is, in terms of the title of the law, as regards the difference between what is a peace support operation, or other activities and as regards civil protection. When it comes to the compliance of this proposal legal with the Defence Act, we have made sure that none of these articles are contrary to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As Mr Živković asked whether a specific debate could be held in Parliament on the matter of reference tomorrow, tomorrow, under the alleged signs that it would not literally be understood, the units for the destruction of unexploded murderous funds in Iraq, I think that, and this article on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean Article 35, where the role of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament is clearly defined in the democratic view, means, calling on this article 35, if not for that, then, given that the Presidency is making a decision, and the minister of defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that as a member of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at any time here, may submit a report on what he has given the orders and what activities are being led. For this reason, I also think of this law, not without reason defined that every half a year, and if there is a need, it means only the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, which means maybe individual ministries, I think it can be interpreted as such, namely the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security, or perhaps some other ministry that will refer its civil servants, or employees to one of the operations. Whether it will be a peace support operation, or whether it will be other activities, and yet defined in this Article. I think the best possible solution that is justified means the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is fully in line with the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. One more note, I think we are all aware that no previous law, both at the state level, and certainly not on entities, has defined the meaning of this area, and we ourselves know that we already had our non-armed forces, the work of the unarmed entity forces and police officers who went into peace support operations, and I think it is really necessary to adopt such a law as soon as possible so that we do not have certain problems in the future, thus showing the seriousness of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and its commitment to joining the Partnership for Peace, or NATO accession, which is defined by one of the articles in the Law on Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15379	Thank you very much. I think this was a useful explanation. Mrs. Milićević, would you like some? Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. There are no more applications for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15380	Chairman, fellow MPs, I had, above all, proposed this law two objectives. One goal is to regulate this area legally and that exactly what the deputy minister of some of the operations we had already said, and therefore the status of those in those operations was not regulated, so it was not, therefore, motive and other motive is to make professional law. This first motive seems to me that it was enough to propose a law so that it would come to this first goal, and the second one was co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Security and all those who wanted to contribute to the quality of the law and that professional law. And I have to say here that I've really had quite a good and proper co-operation with everyone and that's why it's been so many amendments. In fact, all these amendments did not undermine the basic principle that I normally had, which is that Parliament is the one who makes the final decision on sending troops, actually sending members of the armed forces, police officers on a mission to support peace abroad. So it was a basic motive and a basic goal and I think it was achieved by this law and this legal solution. Of course, it was a little harder to come to this because we had before us and the Defence Act, which on the one hand gave the Presidency the power to make such decisions, and the other April therefore gave Parliament the right to control. We think that this, I think that this solution is actually not hurt, and I'm sure it's not the defense law that's been violated, and we've got one quality solution. Of course the remarks we've heard here and which have been formulated in the amendment that will be the subject of debate. I dare say, I read Mr. Križanović's amendments that this is not about a particular group of amendments is not about changing any principles. So it's somewhere even the technical improvements of the law, but not about changing principles, and then I don't see any particular reason why I'm proposing that today we challenge these principles that I've been talking about, and they're the key two principles. As for the special section there that speaks of solving situations when on our territory other units of other countries are stationed on our territory, be careful here is not about some principle, it is about a particular section so that if MPs here accept to be an integral part of this law and I think that in that case he, therefore, if they accept it can be. As far as I'm concerned, I feel that this area should not be regulated by this law, but rather regulated by a special act, and that what is wanted here is achieved by this law. So status issues and the principle of decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15381	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pendeš again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15382	I do apologize, but I have forgotten perhaps another important thing, which is this proposal by Mr. Križanović when it comes to defining the meaning of foreign troops staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it is peace missions or other activities. We at the Ministry of Defence have the view that it is necessary to define this problem, but not through this law, but through one new law, and in that sense we give and in that sense you agree with this proposal, just so it is not through this law, because this law as it is defined means when it comes to sending our forces, and by other law and I certainly hope, by the end of this year, that the conditions will be created for professionals and persons who are 31 employed to mean in our ministry and to do that part of the job, and certainly if you have any proposal any support will be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15383	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. We move on to a statement on the proposal for a law on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces of civil servants and other employees in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, proposed by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, to a statement in the first reading. I ask the House to make a statement about the bill. Vote now. So with 28 votes for, without votes against and two abstentions, we accepted the bill's proposal in the first reading. We're going to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget, also proposed by Mr Momčilo Novaković Just to remind you, the applicant Mr Novaković delivered the proposal 21.5. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 29.6. The report was submitted by the Finance Commission on 27.10. As you have seen from the report, the relevant commission has not accepted the proposal of this law. We now have a situation where we need to make a statement about the report of the relevant commission. If the report is adopted by the proposal for a law is considered rejected and the report is not adopted, the House will ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines to determine this home and the time limit set by this House. I'm opening a debate on the report. Mr. Novaković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15384	It is crucial to say that by proposing this law, at least I was motivated by a memo sent by the World Bank to the RS Roads Directorate, in which she informed them that she had made arrangements and negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so that the dedicated toll funds would be allocated from the RS budget and would be directly paid at the expense of this company and that, as this company should be singled out, this institution should be singled out into a special public enterprise. And so it happened in both the RS and the Federation of BiH and these two directorates have actually become public enterprises separate from the Ministry of Transport, i.e. the Ministry of Communications in the Federation. The law on indirect taxation is, the tolls are put back into the budget together, meaning in one register contrary to this World Bank effort, which is the most common lender of all major activities when it comes to these directives. Of course, the Commission has, had the possibility of one or the other, that most of the votes the Commission did not accept the principles of the law, but what I cannot, and not to say here today, is the decision of the Management Board established by the Law on an indirect taxation system. I think we all got that decision. 32 Be careful, the decision not to approve the proposal and then Article 2 below enters into force immediately. Who does that decision apply to? Either that decision applies to whoever made it, or it refers to me as the legislator, or it applies to this parliament. I was told that this board of directors had the right to stop the laws proposed by the MPs, which are contrary to what they believe to be defined in the Law on indirect taxation. And that's why I think this decision... I said at one meeting then that if I voted for such a law, then I was indeed in great error. It's impossible that whoever passed the law can't change the law. So it's impossible, too, because I think this, this kind of attitudes of the IRS really don't make any sense, because this is about taking ingenuity, not to Parliament, to everyone in this area, because the IRS has declared itself to be the one who arbitrations in this area and completely makes its decisions in this area which is not true. If the law is read, it will be seen that it is not because the law did not see it that way. I, this forward trend, you will continue to see in the law that needs to come about excise duties, so where we have the same situation again, and where I will probably be back in a position to go with changes to the law that will not get most of it again, because again someone will make a decision that applies to someone that can't apply. I will request as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to request an interpretation, so that I be given an authentic interpretation of this controversial member of the law, because I do not think it is as interpreted by the Directorate for indirect taxation. So I, of course, am going to vote against the Commission's report, but this is what I wanted to warn you about, otherwise, one fact, which is that in this way, by grouping incomes that are intended, means that they are deliberately collected for one area, which is the area of public roads, etc. Putting ourselves in a budget, and out of that funding of some other areas, and not in the total amount of going back, we'll put ourselves in a position that we'll never have these paths, or we'll be in a position that we'll have to give everything we want to under concessions and eventually we'll have to, and I think we'll give this country all in concessions to someone because we won't have the opportunity to do anything without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15385	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15386	I thank the president. I wouldn't talk about the law, I'd talk about the commission's report. I think at one of the sessions of this house when we were discussing another law, we concluded that when the neighbor gives a negative opinion about the law, then we need a lot more arguments to give. It's here, it seems like a very lame argument to me, and one explanation is that the indirect taxation board disagrees with this about... and nothing else. I think the commission should try a little harder to make more arguments when it comes to this kind of negative opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15387	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I am concluding the debate and we are moving on to a plea, therefore, on the report of the relevant commission which has not adopted the proposal for this law. 33 I ask the House to declare itself by voting on the report of the relevant committee. Vote now. So the law has a general majority, most of it from the Federation, no RS. So there's no Mr. Špirić right now, please. So you will receive a statement from the College at the next session and will proceed further in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As they say, he came when he was most unnecessary. Because of you, we've stopped, I'm sorry about the MPs, about the report from this Finance Commission and the budget that didn't accept Mr. Novaković's bill, the addition to the law. Are we going to the second round, or are we going to go later? The college's been looking for three days in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're moving to agenda nine, that's Ad.9. Report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach the Agreement on the identical text of the Act on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments Report you received. You saw that the commission agreed to the text of the law by adopting three amendments. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to make a statement by voting on the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments. Vote now. So with 31 votes for and 1 abstentioned MPs, the home has accepted the Joint Commission's report and thus this law on the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments has been adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th point, that's, now the next three points, I suggest we end up, that's Ad.10. Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina Ad.11. The Prosecution Act and Ad.12. Law on the entry into force of the Act on the Hague Tribunal and the takeover of jurisdiction. I suggest we finish these three points and then set a break of one 15 minutes so the MPs can freshen up a little bit and move on. Or we could finish these compliance reports. Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th point, that's A.10. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina was held this morning by the Joint Commission. You've received a report from the commission. It reached agreement from the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Court Act by adopting amendments to the House of Nations which have become an integral part of this text. 34 Is there a need for discussion? No arguments, sorry. So we're pleading on the Joint Commission's report. Vote now. With 34 votes in favour, 1 against, without abstentions, I find that the House of Representatives has adopted a joint commission report and reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which adopted the law. Thank you very much. We're going to the 11th point, that's Ad.11. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reached by the Commission on the identical text of this law. It delivers reports recommending that we accept this report because they have accepted amendments adopted by the House of Peoples and have become an integral part of the text of this law. I'm asking the House to make a statement on this report. Vote now. With 34 votes for and 1 against, without abstentions, I find that the House of Representatives accepted the Joint Commission's report on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. Moving to the 12th point, that's Ad.12. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Suspension of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and on the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina You also received a report from the Joint Commission which reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Court of Justice of the former Yugoslavia, adopting amendments adopted in the House of Peoples and which became an integral part of the text of that law, with the recommendation to adopt this report. I ask the House to declare the Joint Commission's report on this law. Vote now. With 32 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention of the council that the House accepted the Joint Commission's report and reached an agreement in the identical text of the Law on the Prosperity of Cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. We're going to the 13th point, that's Ad.13. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Payments Act on a single account and income distribution I remind you, you have received a report that the text of this law is in line with the adoption of two amendments. 35 I ask the House to declare the report of the Joint Commission. Vote now. I agree that with 34 votes in favour, without votes against and 1 abstention, we accepted the Joint Commission Report and thus adopted the Payments Act in a single account and income distribution. Thank you very much. We're going to the 14th point, that's Ad.14. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Commission. The same text of the law on the adoption of two amendments has been agreed. I'm asking the House to plead with the vote. Vote now. Here's Mr. Špirić. He helped me very constructively. With 31 votes to, without votes against, 2 abstentions, a joint commission report was adopted and an agreement was reached on the identical text of the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. Thank you very much. We're going to the last of this package of harmonised reports, point 15, that's Ad.15. The joint commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act was also reached by adopting two amendments within the Commission. I ask the House to plead by voting on this report. Vote now. With 32 votes in favour, therefore unanimously, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted the Joint Commission's report and reached an agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act. I thank the MPs, and here on behalf of the College, I propose a recess until half past five. At 5:30, we're back to work. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We're at the 16th wheel, that's Ad.16. Report on the financial performance audit carried out by the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution last year with the Commission's financial and budget report You received a review report. You also received reports from the Finance Commission and the budget on the review of these reports. In addition to individual reports by the Commission on audit reports of each institution, we also have a general report from the committee on the review of all audit reports. In that report, the Finance and Budget Committee proposed to the House for adoption and certain recommendations and conclusions, taking into account the discussions and proposals of the MPs, which were presented at the 41st session of the House of Representatives when we discussed the review report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. 36 The Commission also proposes that each institution's audit reports be adopted by the House for adoption of certain recommendations and conclusions. I note this in order to bear in mind that the adoption of the Commission's report also adopts the proposed recommendations and conclusions. Another note relating to this item of the agenda, that is, to obtain information in the material on the revision of the Financial Business Directorate for the implementation of the CIPS project delivered by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget. This information shall include comments on the audit report of the CIPS Implementation Directorate for 2003. I am opening a debate on the audit reports, as reports from the relevant commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15388	Reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15389	I told you about the reports, not the one. Mrs. Sopta. Here you go, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to warn you that you have received, along with this report, a list of missing rules of conduct in the area of finance at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Finance and Budget Commission has in one way asked the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Ministry, the Office for Audit and the Ministry of Finance to jointly prepare all missing acts governing the matter of financial operations that will be unique to all institutions. Well, let's just point out that in addition to what you said was ex post information, which is, all the institutions were manifested by the report of the commission, it was only subsequently delivered after the last session of the commission of the CIPs Implementation Directorate, so for that reason this report was subsequently proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15391	Thank you very much. There's no record of a hearing. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15392	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Ruža Sopta, has already said a little on behalf of the Commission about this whole business. We are slightly disabled because we do not have the present President of the Kragul Commission, so here I feel the need to say that indeed the Commission has made a great deal of effort when it comes to telling this complete project, i.e. the complete obligation of the House of Representatives, to consider these annual audit reports in the institution. It would still be good if this didn't go away, so to speak quietly under quotes, for the simple reason that it kind of discourages us in further activities. The question is what does it mean every year to make audit reports by the state audit, and then our body, the Commission, for 37 finance and the budget, propose certain recommendations if it does not get me to say more concrete consequences in terms of repairing the situation. And it would be good for all of us to take part in the evaluation and our work in some way when it comes to the commission and in the assessment of the overall attitude towards public funds when it comes to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here's how much I apologize for trying to instigate the debate this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15393	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15394	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen, my fellow MPs agree with what my colleague Belkić said that this is how I find the document quite important to pass and this extensive work that has done the revision to go unnoticed. What I noticed, and I read carefully this and the previous, even previous conclusions of the revision, I could conclude and conclude that almost all the institutions that are listed here, and according to the findings of the audit, the truth of some less, some no longer did the job. I was doing a review of what they got for the instructions from the last audit, which particularly disappointed me. This leads to the conclusion that it does about whatever it wants and that it has about one corridor that these institutions are constantly pulling out, no matter what the report of this audit was. I therefore propose to adopt the conclusion that, in addition to what Mr. President has said, what the review proposed to include as conclusions and the conclusion that all those users of the budget who had instructions should have done and that the corrections had not been done and corrected. It is better said that during this period, they continued to abuse both the law and the situation in those institutions when it comes to the use of the budget and that, according to these institutions, this Parliament is asking for all possible and envisaged measures to be taken by law and even if they do, and there seems to be some, as far as I have seen here other drastic measures to take so that this report is not repeated. I noticed that, on average, only 30-40% of the instructions from the previous audit were corrected, and that certain institutions continued to break legal regulations and abuse certain opportunities and positions when it came to the use of the budget, i.e. the use of funds from that budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15395	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Džaferović, so Mr. Hazem Felić, and then Mr. Mladen streamer. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15396	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, since Parliament has been dealing with this problem, so the issue of an analysis of the report by the Office of the General Auditor for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we face around the same problems year by year. The biggest problem is the lack of proper rules, regulations, procedures to regulate the financial functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, year after year, the Office of 38 of the Auditor-General warns of the lack of these procedures. We, and now in this report, have much similarity to what we had in last year's report, in last year's report on last year's report on this subject. That is why I believe that this Parliament should not wait one year and a new report by the Office of the Auditor-General to come into a position to find that certain procedures are missing again, but I think that in the course of the year, acting on this report and respecting the recommendations of our commission, this issue in terms of verifying whether certain procedures have been done, whether they are required to be controlled. For this reason, I propose that, in addition to these nine recommendations proposed by the Commission, another report is generally included, which is to be in charge or to say that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina will quarterlyally seek a report on what has been done when it comes to the obligation of the Authority to make certain procedures. I think that, if we insist on doing this and check whether the limited procedures have been done, those who need to do them next year, when we discuss the review report, we will be in a more favourable position and we will have the procedures prescribed, because I repeat the basic problem of what the General Auditor and the Office for the Review of Bosnia and Herzegovina have noticed is that there are no procedures and this gap is repeated year after year. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15397	Thank you. Mr. Hazem Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15398	Mr Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say briefly as a member of the Commission that the reports of the Financial Business Audit Office for the past year have produced results in the sense that those over whom the audit was carried out, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been made certain moves in respect of compliance with certain rules on financial operations, and for this reason, the Commission has also come from the Office for Audit and the Commission has agreed to make a list of missing rules and behaviours in the field of finance at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of helping those who have shown that they need assistance in the adoption of these rules. And I think that procedure should be completed. Mrs. Ruža Sopta spoke on the subject in the sense that the Office of Audit and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury made proposals for these texts so that the procedure would be completed. And what I still want to say, and that is what I said on the Commission, on the other hand, you see the members of the Commission and their responsibility for certain agencies, ministries and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to say that out of these nine names here, all nine of them didn't work. Mr. Blagojević is being resolved because he didn't come under item 23 and he wasn't working on these reports. I'm sorry Mr. Lagumdžija isn't here, but he was explicit that he didn't want to, and he hasn't made a single report yet. As this House was established, no report has been prepared. I objected to the Komsiija and asked if it did not want to work and that the report really did not need to be on that committee. If Mr. Blagojević is being resolved for not coming and not doing the reports, I don't know why others would have the privilege of staying on that committee. For this reason, it is really not appropriate to be a member of the commission, not to do anything according to the reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15399	I thank Mr. Felić. Who's the next speaker? Mladen Potočnik, come in. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15400	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament is on the one hand and the control element of this country, and I am therefore thinking whether this commission we have for the finance budget or some other three months in co-operation with these institutions would say procedural procedures on the other hand. This is what I'm saying for the reason that 17% of people will be threatened by the VAT Regulation by about 3% of their budget, and the state, if it gave up, would be about 4% threatened, or the state budget would be lower. The real state would be brought forward by giving up 4% and rationalising in its alleged business, or by its budget in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina's man. My proposal is for this budget and finance committee to review the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's reports on respect for the procedural, procedural parts of these institutions and also on the cost-effectiveness part.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15401	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Filip Andrić. Then I was misinformed, sir, here is Ibrahim Đedović, then Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Selim Bešlagić, and then you, Mrs. Sopta. Here's if I remember what I said. Mr. Đedović raised his hand. Right? Here, you have your word. Have Sead Avdić prepare, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15402	I thank you,...so I really, with a very good intention, support this resonation that Mr. Džaferović made, but I would just like to continue to say that thought. We can always spin around in circles if we don’t know who’s guilty, who’s responsible and whether it’s appropriate and what’s the consequences. We'll have the same story from year to year. Who appoints all these people, what are they obliged to do? It's impossible that the rules can't be defined in a year. I mean, that's impossible. And I'm afraid that people, auditors, I admire them for how they're willing to do it, because the same people and the same problems are waiting for them. And I think the conclusion should go in a sense if in the course of the year they don't remove what they're looking for, they can't be waited there just for the same people. They have to go and commit, at least it's a minimum of responsibility which, I believe, in a short time gives a result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15403	Thank you, Mr. Đedović. Mr. Sead Avdić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15404	Mr. Chairman, I only want two suggestions. One suggestion is that our administrative, i.e. the Finance and Budget Commission practically proposes to adopt a document that will opt for the tasks and tasks arising from this revision for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It might be good for both the boards of administration and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, given the opinion of the auditors on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's business, that would be, that is, internally for us, and it simply needs to come from ourselves first. That's one thing. 40 Second, I congratulate the auditors who said, in point 5, to revise the Law on Budget Implementation, for example. The current reserve is...expensive structures, discard special purpose programs that are unclear, etc. And it might be good to add to this – to review the possibility of a restriction, simply the funds spent on contracts for the work and engagement of third parties for the needs of individual institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15405	I thank Mr. Sead Avdić. Mr. Selim Bešlgić, have Mrs. Ruža Sopta prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15406	Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. I think the report that the Office of Audit and Finance delivered to our desks provides excellent conclusions, but I am interested in who should prepare this, or we must appoint who will present these laws to Parliament for them to adopt. I think it's very important, because if it doesn't, I don't know how our commission will work if these laws don't exist. Therefore, I think that, on the basis of these minutes that we have here, Parliament should say who it is and what time-limit it has to propose to amend and supplement the laws provided for here by the revision and what it is, let's say the service that should make all of these points 1 to 8 in this proposal a joint recommendation to give us as a proposal so that we can adopt and that we simply know who is responsible for why and who is responsible if we do not do something about it. I think this is a great proposal, but we should just name it now, give it a deadline until it's over, because this is how we can go forever. I really admire the commission if there aren't any of these materials that can make a statement or a statement about an audit, here's what's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15407	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15408	My colleagues and colleagues, I apologize to you again. I answer my word for it the second time. My first announcement was indeed just an addition to the chairmanship of the materials prepared for this point. And as for the report itself, I think there has been significant progress in the work and audit and commission, and I mean significant progress in the work of these institutions that we are analysing. The accident is that even the current recommendations that are, when we look at the 2004 report by year, will not be copied, because here we are at the end of the year when it can no longer be copied. But I feel and I see that there has been significant progress through the reports that we subsequently asked each of the users of the budget to say what was removed from it. A lot of things have been removed from most users. It'll happen again. We have seen as a commission a lack of that a lot of budget users or responsible people for budget users have shown inability, not to say the uncertainty of what kind of act and how they should prepare. As a result, the Commission gave the initiative, in agreement with the Office for Immense, in agreement with the Audit Office, that those elements are missing in order to do 41 for the next year 2005. If you have read our suggestions and conclusions correctly, we have set the terms there. This is the first time we've said when any acts should be made. Among other things, when I mentioned that document that was not mentioned by Mr. Raguž, you can see that here was the date on the regulation of the reported purchases. Most and most of the mistakes were made in public procurement, and we have already taken that one item off the agenda. We have passed the Law on Public Procurement so that we as Parliament have an obligation to pass these laws that regulate this matter. Then we put in charge of the Ministry of Finance and the vault, which has one large additional role to regulate the financial operations that, to lay down rules that will be common to all budget users. So I believe it's not done very little, but the effect and work of this report will probably be in 2005. So I think, for the sake of further discussion, that we would not say that exactly nothing has happened in the subsequent reports that came to us like this report on the CIPS, we have gained the impression as the Commission that progress has been made, but not enough, but I mean by adopting these rules that have been set by deadlines, and I agree, as a commission in agreement with the Office of Audit, that we have been in constant communication to see if these deadlines have complied with the adoption of these rules on financial operations. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15409	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Milorad Živković has signed up and I have no more applications for discussion as far as I can see. After him, we will conclude his discussions, unless someone from the Office of the Auditor General wants to speak at the pay phone, if of course an assessment, I am obliged to offer it and so much. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15410	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15411	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank our commission for this truly extensive and very high-quality work. However, if we look at each audit individually, I cannot agree with some of the proposals, such as the proposal on the audit carried out by the Statistical Agency of BiH when it is said that the Commission's recommendation is to give the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly due to the untimely adoption of the Statistics Act, as well as the slowness in the process of appointing the director is part of the responsibility. I do not believe that we, especially those in Parliament, are responsible for the failure of a timely law by the Council of Ministers, especially the proposal for a director and that our responsibility does not stand. On the other hand, when Mrs. Sopta says about the bones we were supposed to bring, I ask what about the laws that were passed and not respected. And it's listed here. So last time, we discussed the revision of the Presidency, that is, their spending, and it is again stated here that the Presidency of Vehicle Procurement in the Presidency did not in all cases comply with the legal rules governing the areas of public procurement. Also in the report on the audit carried out by the Council of Ministers, or services, it is said that services in certain cases did not spend public money transparently and in accordance with the rules on the supply of goods and services. It has been established here on the one hand and on the other hand that it was not in accordance with 42 laws and then we ask ourselves, and who should bring such cases to law and justice and we get a report on the financial operations of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina where the situation is even worse, where it is said here that the amortisation bill etc. etc. so that the current value of fixed assets is not shown truthfully and precisely in the annual financial report. So those who should now put on their agenda all the things that have been violated in certain institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and have violated the law that was listed here according to what the auditor has given. And this raises the question means not which laws were to be passed and which we need to pass, but whether and how the laws that have already been passed have been violated. And I think it was a good idea for the Finance and Budget Commission to make a parallel report the next time there are rules and to say which ones were actually done by then and whether a move was actually made, not that every time we warn them about what they were supposed to do and where they broke the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15412	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15413	I want to explain some things to my colleagues. We have individual reports here. Under one in each report a relationship was made means a cut from the previous year and whether or not it was fixed. We've been doing reports for each individual budget user, and this is summed up. So that's one thing done. Secondly, we are talking about the Law on Public Procurement which we called a year and a year and a half ago and we are told that together with the people of Europe he did, and we have recently passed the right Law on Public Procurement which must be respected and which came into force, and here, if you are going to look at public procurement, is a rare budget user of this 32 who is literally some sort of regulation about public procurement at the time, because we did not have a law, respected which did not go wrong in some segment. So what you said is true for most of the budget users. And in that it is greatness if we now have the Public Procurement Act we know and we have criminal provisions and we know how to implement it. The problem is now, so they are no longer public procurement a nominal problem, the problem is the Treasury Act which will give amendments and additions to the Treasury Act, in which we have no criminal provisions. Who will be the initiator of such a law, that is, how do you regulate wages and fees legally? Who's going to do a revision of the budget law? That's what this is, this is the one we freaked out, we move on, and then I hope next year we have a better report than this one. As for the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they had a paradoxical situation that they had not written an item of 500,000. She didn't just go in there and make one hell of an oversight in accounting. Niko took any money in their pocket. That's what this was about, and that's why their report is negative, that's how it's rated. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15414	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15415	I thank my esteemed colleague for clarifying the procedure. Obviously, we weren't clear in two things, at least. 43 One thing is that I have read here, so I have not invented where the auditor says that the purchases of vehicles in the Presidency are not in all cases, I ask which ones were carried out in accordance with the legal rules governing the area of public procurement of the point and those mentioned here. I'm talking about the laws we had when those vehicles got bought. I'm not talking about the law that we've passed here in that way or this way after that. And I ask who, and in what way does that not stand in your report, bear responsibility for such actions? That's what we were talking about, and I think we were clear here. Whether they later improved or not will we see, especially when this new law is respected and respected. So we're talking about the law that was, or the regulations that were, were they broken and in what way and did anyone carry adequate sanctions on that? I thought that report had to contain that component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15416	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Mr Mušović of the Audit Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15417	I express my respect for the esteemed assembly of Parliament's House of Representatives. I'd like two things short and it's too late this afternoon. I'd like to take this opportunity to inform you that the Audit Office has continued to do its job. He carried out a previous audit of the 2004 accounts, and that information fits into the previous one, in a discussion I had just heard that it was considered quarterly, and we are prepared by the end of this year to submit a provisional report if he concludes this home on what was going on, that the institutions did business in the period from 1.1.2004 to 1.10.2004, so if you are interested in such material to obtain it in a slightly wider form, we are prepared to submit it. It's a preliminary report for 2004 and we finished that part of the job, so after the reporting phase we had this summer about the accounts in 2003, our auditors were doing a previous audit of the accounts from mid-September to today in 2004. That's our job. As far as monitoring results are concerned, I mean monitoring the implementation of your conclusions and our recommendations, I think it's the most important task of this debate today, actually looking at this force, this strength, this seriousness and this discipline that all of us have to undergo, including the Office of Audit and all other institutions of government, NGOs, independent, direct, indirect budget users, and you know what, we're not weary, although there's a lot of work to do. What bothers is that every year we discuss the consequences, and we expect a stronger reaction from this Parliament in terms of cause, and today it is excellently said here, and these rules are missing, procedures, costs are not harmonised and that they are not harmonised at the state level are not even the level of entities. Tomorrow we'll all speak the same language, and that language is VAT. We must have in due course harmonised public spending at all levels of public administration. The representation must be known both at the level of the municipality and at the level of the entity and at the level of the state administration. It's the only way we're going to speak the same language that's called VAT and in collecting VAT and in redistributing what we've collected. Because if someone's going to spend more and someone's going to spend less, if someone's going to have double, triple control, someone internal and external, and someone's going to do nothing, then we're doing nothing. 44 As for this monitoring, I kindly refer you to the experiences of other countries. They formed permanent committees for finance and budgets, professional bodies. Well, it's probably a little late to discuss it now. I just gave you an idea. Once again, if this esteemed home is interested in the findings of previous audits, we are ready to provide you with this information within the current month of December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15418	Thank you very much, Mr. Mušović. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15419	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to do some things again, not because we don't understand each other, but simply to specify. It's about the next one. This parliament accepts or does not accept the report, has accepted the report as it is, but after that, action goes to make those things that are in it mended. So either that commission that is now for the budget and finance is caught active co-operation and reporting to the quarterly parliament where Parliament will tell the Presidency or any other institution you can't do this, you can't spend, you don't work on principles, or a permanent commission like Mr Mušović said, because if we don't do it and we just nod this report, then we'll just air-conditioning on the report will continue to waste funds indefinitely. We have no right to do that. I therefore suggest that you put the proposal to the vote or that the existing Commission on Finance and Budget is quarterlyally reporting on what has been done and what should be done or that a permanent committee be formed to monitor the costs of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15420	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15421	Thank you, Mr. President. It was these two last discussions that led me to answer and ask, I have a right to something and I don't know. And I think I know this very well because I know how to read it, so we're all here, I hope we've read about the review in some of these institutions and institutions that were, and about one of them is the most common construction of sentences in the finals for all almost identical. So under some point it says - the procurement procedures of goods and services have not been implemented in all cases in accordance with the applicable regulations. Next. The rules and criteria governing individual costs have not been adopted and adopted as written procedures that achieve economic, efficiency, etc. Third lack of internal procedures in the use of the information system. Let's ease the form of a breach of something. They didn't, they said, write down a deficit in the amount of so many, because they replaced something, some material. Okay. A list of funds, the amount of funds implemented as a whole in accordance with established practice and regulations. Internal acts of the committee are not approved by the Council of Ministers. And I'm putting this all on one side. And on the second sentence with the finding – recommendations for removing certain netostats observed during the 2002 review have not been made. How long and how? Who's responsible and why? I cannot accept what Mr. Mušović said, nor can I accept this if Mr. 45 Potočnik says we are responsible here. That's why I said, maybe I'm not well-informed. I don't want to be responsible that someone didn't do their job, and here it's just recorded. I don't know, I'm asking myself a question, and probably you, too, somebody knows the answer to that. What are these audits for? If we find that for that year, it is not for that year, then it will never be done, but it will be imposed. Well, I'm afraid someone won't laugh at us. I'm not so that only these papers get to us, we read them, raise our hand or we don't raise them. Here's one of the active ways to participate in this problem, and we have to contribute that there are no such sentences in the next year's report. How, I don't know, I didn't raise myself to suggest one such conclusion, but I think those who have closeness to business, the economy to be much more cooperative such a single conclusion, if I've been clear enough in this brief presentation. I don't agree with just the findings, but it has to be this call to an active relationship that the errors observed can't be repeated indefinitely, and we tolerate it, close our eyes and talk like everything's fine. I don't know if I've been clear enough, but I'm here to add something to the conclusions that we're going to adopt here today that would talk about this part. I'm sorry why I'm not prepared to say that, because I was hoping that much, much more contentable conclusions would be in this sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15422	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik, there must be a brief, or a business intervention, or a replica, then Mr. Novaković. Replica
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15423	Replica, not in terms of negative. You have precisely defined that action should be taken, and the action is that this Parliament has been through its existing commission, whether through another commission to take action and review and proposals, if someone is not working as it should be responsible for it, not us. And just so I don't get to be held responsible for it, I should have that commission. Thank you very much for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15424	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15425	I'd like to replicate Mr. Potočnik on some commission's proposal. As I understand it, the proposal is for Parliament to form some kind of commission that would now control the cost of budget spending, the way budget consumers spend their resources. Please, I would like to remind you that there is an institution budget and that it knows exactly who is in charge of caring for the implementation of the budget and who is monitoring the spending, or who is monitoring the implementation of certain items. It's the Treasury, and I really wouldn't take people's jobs. So it doesn't make any sense that we're forming some kind of commission now whose role is absolutely undefined. As soon as there is a commission that always, in the end, is our commission discussing the budget, discussing budget implementation, discussing possible rebalancing if there is one, etc. So absolutely no other commission, because the law has clearly defined, especially the Budget Law every year fully clearly defines responsibility for the implementation of the budget. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15426	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović. Are there any more reported? There isn't. It's a closed debate. Mr. Jovanović, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I had no intention of talking today about these reports on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but mostly I wanted to say that I fully agree with counterpart Miro Jović. The question is, in fact, what is the purpose of the discussion of the information, i.e. the audit report in this House. I've seen the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure a little bit. We would be obliged, i.e. it would be good only to discuss in fact the financial business of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Imagine now that such a parliament is put in a position to discuss a financial report of 30 or 40 as many institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I think it would be good if we could try to work out rational behavior here. This is particularly interesting because we in the audit reports receive classic remarks about the conduct of budget spending from individual institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what the Mr. from the review says is the main problem is the lack of internal spending regulations. And please, what can we conclude about that? It takes nine years for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass an internal act on the behaviour of spending funds. What can we conclude here? We can conclude that we say there is a state audit by law founded and there are state bodies that respond to the audit report. That's why I'd be the challenger to support a part of the proposal that goes here if it ends on our commission. Indeed, the 57th Parliament cannot therefore discuss the details of Bosnia and Herzegovina's financial operations with one and the other. The only thing we can say is that we support the work of our audit office, that we support its findings and that we support it, that we demand that the authorities, the relevant authorities, I mean the Prosecutor's Office and other organs react to the irregularities observed. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15428	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15429	Here, I'll just brief, largely agree with what the gentleman was saying, said Mr. Miro Jović. If you look at the report of any of these state institutions, you will be aware that almost everyone stands out that the appointment is not a director in accordance with the law, that the funds are spent non-transparently, that the Law on State Service and what I have to say in particular is that I point out and what about the Election Commission of BiH, where it says - does not comply with the provisions of the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is exactly the institution that needs and which has often provided us with changes and additions to the law that it is not, or is in conflict of interest, and they are the ones who do not adhere to the Law on conflict of interest. So I really should say this, I don't know what the conclusion is, but respecting what the gentlemen of the audit did, but I really think there's a lot of irregularities here and I should do something to say against those people who did it. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15430	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I will remind you first of the recommendations and conclusions that our respective commission has made – nine and when you read them and when we all read them we see that, I have not seen more consistent and more serious conclusions that something has been made. Each of these points of request, both the deadlines and those and the bearers are defined and everything that needs to be done, so I'm just going to read you two or three. It means that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, in cooperation with the Office of Audit, should launch and, within 60 days, end the activities on the adoption of rules and procedures, the production and monitoring of all budgetary expenditures that will be common to all budgetary users and, in that sense, act on the proposal of the Audit Office. It means that the Council of Ministers also implements the harmonisation of existing rules governing accountability for financial operations, that all managers of budgetary users immediately adopt acts to specify the responsibility for material financial operations, to adopt internal rules, everything here is defined. We can still accept this 10th proposal, I think Mr Džaferović submitted it, and supported by Mr Đedović, Potočnik - that every three months this relevant commission submits a report on the implementation of these ten conclusions now. And I think we're already some, don't minimize everything, but some shift has been made. Well, we also see thanks to the Office of Audit and the public and some other things. I mean, I guess that's the basic sense. If someone has something out of it, it should be done by other institutions, but the role of Parliament is this. Is this how we can accept these commission conclusions and fully its report with these ten conclusions now, for all users? I'm asking Dom to make a statement about it. Vote now. So with 33 votes in favour, no votes against and 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority we accepted the commission's report with recommendations and conclusions, ten of them in all. This is my conclusion that we adopted the 2003 Financial Business Audit Report for the following institutions: - Statistics Agency, - The BiH State Border Service, - the Institute of Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property, - the BiH Election Commission, - the BiH Presidency, - the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, - the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, - the BiH Public Service Agency, - the BiH Foreign Investments Agency, - the BiH Foreign Investment Office, - the BiH Constitutional Court, - the BiH Civil Affairs Ministry, - the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, - the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, - the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate, 48 - the BiH Prosecutor's Office, - the BiH Veterinary Office, - the BiH Constitutional Court of Justice, - the BiH Institute for Information and Protection, - the Centre for the Removing Mines of BiH, - the Directorate for Civil Aviation, - the Directorate for the European Integration of BiH, - the Office for the Implementation of the Implementation of the CIPS Project, - the Security of Human Rights of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH - the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, the Republic of BiH, I thank all the representatives, members of the commission and the management of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. We're going to the 17th point, that's Ad.17. A report on the state of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina is submitted by the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy. You received this report that was delivered to us on 12.11. Acting on the conclusion of this House at the 39th session, and on the discussion of the presidency's decisions on determining candidates for general positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence institutions. As you have seen from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, the Commission has requested a report. Following the debate, the Commission unanimously accepted reports of information received from those ministries, which are now a full report on the state of defence and security structures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and proposed this report to this home. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing up. I ask the House to declare by voting, Mr. Križanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15431	If I understand, we are discussing the report, the draft conclusions and measures on the debate on security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15432	That's the next point. Thank you very much. 49 We therefore vote on the report on the state of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask the House to make a statement on this report with the Commission's proposals. Vote now. So with 26 votes for, without votes against and 3 co-workers and a sufficient entity majority, we accepted the State of Defence and Security Structures report in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. We're going to the 18th point, that's Ad.18. A report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy on the proposal for conclusions and measures on the Information on the Security State of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission which followed the conclusion of the House adopted at the 41st session on the occasion of the discussion of this information. As regards this information, the Commission proposes to the House the measures and conclusions contained in the report. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Jovanović, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15433	When we had a debate at the 41st session of the House on this agenda, so the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina I was talking about the role of SFOR in improving or improving the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I suggested a concrete conclusion. However, I see that there is no such conclusion in the Commission's report. I would like to point out again and say that SFOR has been making security conditions worse in its actions lately in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to say again, you're probably witnessing people getting arrested, getting beaten, being taken away by those who say they're neither guilty nor due. Furthermore, I was also talking about the incendiary statements of politicians, it doesn't matter what things, and I think that these are two things that make the state of security much worse and the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but all that this commission has cited. And specifically, I'll be against this report from the commission, because I don't think they've done their job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15434	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15435	So I'm not going to talk about the security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I'm going to talk about a proposal for these measures and conclusions by our commission. In good faith, then, I should first say that I support mostly this proposal of measures and conclusions, and in good intention of correcting something, I propose that, after the word "appearance" come to a point and continue the sentence - the Council of Ministers is asked to report to the House of Representatives on the basis of this information. 50 Namely, it is said very unhappily that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina values etc. that the situation is poor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it binds certain organs. You see, I, they make systematic and operational measures to remove the observed negative phenomena. Look at this, reports from the Department of Security and the House of Representatives. Well, please, we expect the Ministry of Security to do this to us, to give us these proposals of measures, etc. Under the Ministry of Security is DGS, SIP, etc. So this is a very awkward formulation, so I'm here and I've given this transformation in writing, and I think it reflects the basic intensity, but it's very, very, very much to avoid saying this unfortunate formulation. I also suggest that point 3 be deleted because it's completely inactive. We're looking for an innovation of information in 2003 to be considered in 2005 which is nonsensical and I think we should turn to the future so I kind of incorporated point 3 in point 4. I have a written proposal, so please make it constructive.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15436	Deliver it to us. It's constructively safe. Anybody else want some? I think here, I'll just use the opportunity for one sentence. We are still assessing here at the first point of this report that the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not satisfactory. I think that grade stands, and, and we're all witnessing now events, murders and everything else that's going on, not to list everything in which parts, ends, etc. and it is obvious that this part, that we are asking that the plan of activity be drawn up and that urgent systematic and operational measures are taken and that, indeed, it is important for us to have the law and it is important for the public as well. And with all these conclusions that I think the commission really very well lined up, along with this suggestion made by Mr Križanović, so I'll read to you, you have a proposal for the Commission's conclusions and the addition, or amendments proposed by Mr Križanović in writing. So here are only changes in the first point that are asked by the Council of Ministers to report to the House of Representatives on the basis of this information. Okay. I think this is acceptable. Point 2 remains the same. Point 3 would be deleted in view of the deadlines mentioned here. And the fourth would be redesigned as well – the House of Representatives requests from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security information on the state of security every 6 months, and the Ministry of Security will, when the assessment is necessary, deliver to the House and specific reports dealing with specific occurrences in the area of security. Information should include all areas of the SIP, OSA, MUPs, DGS and others that need to take responsibility for the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Home is covered by the Council and the Ministry of Security that information on the state of security is complemented by issues of juvenile delinquency, data on unexplained killings by municipalities since the signing of the Dayton Treaty, issues of abuse in the work of individual authorities relating to illegal listening to individual citizens, and that the proposal clearly defines the causes of destabilising security. The remaining conclusions would be as proposed by the Joint Commission. Can we accept this report by the panel with its conclusions with this supplement submitted by Mr Križanović? 51 I ask the House to plead with the vote now. I agree that with 25 votes in favour of, 1 versus, the enough entity majority, we have accepted the Joint Commission's Report on Defence and Security Policy on the proposal for conclusions and measures to discuss the State of Security Information, also measures and conclusions proposed by the Commission with the addition proposed by Mr Jozo Križanović. Thank you very much. We're going to the 19th point, that's Ad.19. Proposal for a resolution on the acceptance of the Otva document's commitments with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development of Representative Milorad Živković He submitted this as a motion for a resolution on 12.10. At its 46th session, the House concluded that the proposed resolution was previously considered on the Commission. We've received a report from the commission. The Commission has supported the text of the resolution and is proposing to the House that it be adopted. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15437	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here's a warning to cut short. Since the Rules of Procedure do not know the category of group proposing a resolution, I have proposed this resolution as president of the population and development group I want to thank all members, Secretary Hasić and NGOs....(xy) who translated this document from English and showed that what in the world is now a practice of the private sector, the state institutions of NGOs jointly associate against what is stated here in the resolution and that I am pleased to point out that on the tenth anniversary of the Cairo document which is in '94. in Cairo adopted, and we unfortunately did not attend when 179 members backed the document at the time, and in 2002 in Ottawa only partially revised and written action programme and certain priorities. On the other hand, we do a lot of work on these issues listed here in the document, to say that we have passed the Law on Equality of Jobs, the Strategy in the fight against AIDS, the education of the population, but this is what we give, we express the political will to continue in this direction and to provide certain resources as well. We also express the political will to co-operate with other countries on the realisation of this document. I will remind you now, I will only remind you that eight points of this document are not only about fighting AIDS, but also about eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, for compulsory primary education, promoting gender equality and women abuse, reducing child mortality, improving the health of pregnant women, protecting the natural environment and the global partnership for development, and that this document is much wider than what is presented in public with us as self-protection....Health and the fight against AIDS which yesterday, in December 1st, marked and I warmly recommend that you accept this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15438	I thank Mr. Živković. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. 52 Please make your statement on the motion for a resolution on the acceptance of the Otva document with the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development. Vote now. Unanimously, with 26 votes, we adopted the motion for a resolution on the acceptance of the Otva document with the programme of action of the International Conference on Population and Development, proposed by MP Milorad Živković. Thank you very much. Moving to the 20th point, that's A.20. Proposal for a resolution on the postponement of all BH military and police formations in a mission abroad, until the adoption of an appropriate law and activities in this area, the motion of representatives of Zlatko Lagumdžija, who were brought to the 43rd session by Mr Lagumdžija, Krićanović and Bešlagić. The House concluded that the resolution had previously been discussed in the commission, as reported by the Joint Commission on Defence and Anti-Georgia Policy. The motion for this resolution was discussed on the committee on two occasions. For the first time in 06.10, the applicants submitted the innovative text of the resolution, which they also stated respected the comments and proposals made by the members of the Commission. Second time 09.11. The Joint Commission considered the innovative text of the resolution which was not accepted on the committee. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a resolution. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm really not going to use this business right to talk 20 minutes about this resolution, since we've talked about it for a long time. But let me say a few words about it anyway, to remind you when this resolution came and to refer to the opinion of the relevant Commission or the Joint Defence and Security Commission. First of all, I would like to remind you that this resolution was delivered to the House on 07.09, which means three months ago, that this resolution, after a month on the committee responsible, was discussed and that it made certain remarks that we have accepted as proposings and in the in-integrated text, so that almost all the suggestions we received from the Commission and referred to the Commission again, so that the Commission would reject this resolution with an explanation, I will quote this argument – the non-compliance of the resolution with the existing legislative legislation. I'm gonna say something about that. First, I would like to remind you that our rules of procedure have been formulated so that the House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and needs and establish the policy guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers or other BiH institutions. So the general question arises whether, in that sense, any resolution could be contrary to some laws. This is not about the application of legality and the appeal to the law, but about the expression of a certain political stance on a particular current political problem. I would like to remind you, therefore, that in the 7th of September when this resolution was placed in the House, so three months ago, this was a current political problem, because even certain petitions and in public were advertised against sending our troops to Iraq. 53 Now I would like to say a few words about what this resolution is against. In the first position, we say the House of Representatives makes a decision to postpone sending, be careful to delay sending all BH soldiers, police formations to missions abroad, until the relevant law is passed and all activities are brought into line with the existing legislation. I don't know what's illegal about that. In the second position, we say, the House of Representatives shows the willingness to participate actively and within the shortest time limits, which we have confirmed is whether, like Dom, I don't know anything about what this would be, against the law. The Bureau, the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions should, in accordance with this resolution, coordinate the pre-determined executive decisions for the missions in preparation and, in parallel with the adoption of the whole law, draw up a full plan of activities to the Parliamentary Assembly, etc. I don't know anything about what's in there. And in particular, it is not against the law to appeal to the Council of Ministers to be directed, in line with BiH's opportunities for certain humanitarian aid, because we know what this humanitarian aid means, even if it is symbolic, that BiH manifests itself as a respectable member of the International Community and that it can and wants to help in disasters. And in the end, I would be particularly pleased to have adopted this resolution in good time. She was benign, she was well-intentioned, because besides the rest, she encouraged and accelerated the adoption of this law that we discussed today. I would also be particularly pleased to have adopted this resolution from point 5 of view, because even before today's presence in Butmir, did we, uh, at this ceremony of EUFOR taking over from the ESFOR mission, make it clear that the mission was welcome in BiH and created a positive atmosphere of cooperation with the mission. I know what the fate of this resolution will be, but I repeat, I am very glad that at least as the Foreign Affairs Commission has found it, we have contributed to speeding up the adoption of an appropriate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15440	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15441	I plan to consider agreeing to this resolution, simply exclude ourselves from who suggests it and, conditionally speaking, remove those antagonisms from the simple, proposing this resolution. This means that the resolution is objectively acceptable in all its elements from Articles 1 to 5, as we have condemned (?) and in this context, perhaps it would be good, the resolution would be simply one document that would give us an empty space and the possibility for the Presidency to take another look at the matter and, given the deterioration of the situation in Iraq, to consider sending that unit to the next until opportunities are brought into order or calmed down. And this is primarily the humanitarian mission of a unit of the BiH Armed Forces on a voluntary basis and a principle with the signing of each participant in the peacekeeping mission. Which means I'm begging, pleading for another time, the resolution isn't really a document that isn't acceptable to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15442	Thank you very much. So here we have had the fact that it has been considered twice on the Commission, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, considered by the Foreign Affairs Commission, 54 one of its conclusions, and I think that this resolution has really been said enough, that the act of proposing itself has accelerated the procedure for the adoption of this law that we had today. And through this law, the point is that things are being settled institutionally, gentlemen, not adhoc. We agree, that's what we registered. There's no need now that, I think things are clear and that we don't need to depolize around this, we all need what's worth accepting in the proposals. I am now asking the House to plead on this resolution. So we're voting now, on the resolution on the postponement of all BH military and police formations, on the resolution, so you have gentlemen's agenda. [[Common discussion]] So the reports are that MPs can be determined. We declare the resolution submitted by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija or Mr Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić. I ask the House to plead on this motion for a resolution. Vote now. So the resolution didn't get the necessary general majority and it wasn't accepted. Thank you very much to the MPs. Moving to 21st point, that's Ad.21. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office, the parliamentary term of office, Mr Nikola Kragulj, representative of the Parliamentary House You are ladies and gentlemen to be resigned from Mr Kragulj. At the post of MPs in this house, he resigned because of the election to serve as head of the Municipality of Gradiška. You have received a motion for a decision to terminate your term of office. Anybody want to talk? We're bound to make a statement about
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15444	I think it would be fair, however, to say that Mr Kragulj has also given his work to Parliament and shown awareness of this work. I congratulate him on behalf of all of us and let us vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15445	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić, I thought that after we set our mandate, but here I will suggest that this be the conclusion with a decision that we must make. So now we have to vote on the motion for a decision to set the end of the term of office. Vote now. Okay, I understand that with nine votes for, one against, a decision on the termination of Mr. Nikola Kragulj's term of office has been adopted. 55 And here is what Mr Bešlagić said that as a House, we thank him for his work in this House and for the plenary sessions and the leadership of one of the important committees, and we hope that in some new elections he will have a chance again, and until then the interests of his party and the group will be firmly defended by Mr Špirić and Mr Živković. Mrs Ahra Hadžiahmetović
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15446	The opportunity and place, to speak in this way but it is good that MPs may not leave this Parliament without a single word, if anyone really deserves it, is a colleague of Kragulj. And on this occasion, I would suggest that we perhaps collectively visit him on some bus like we did today in the ESFOR in Gradišca, I think we give him support, that he knows he has the support of the highest legislative body. But, colleagues and colleagues, I have one, I've been wondering a little while ago as one of you, except maybe those whose fatigue left such a question aside. What if it weren't for us, for example? in this case, this one, voted and accepted to say the withdrawal of the MP's term of office? I would like to point out the absurdity of the Electoral Law in a provision in which this Parliament has not granted a mandate from us. But in cases where there is a conflict of interest, such as the specific case of colleagues of Kragulj, who had to step out of Parliament because of the election of a new duty, then this should be done by automation in the work of the Electoral Commission in the implementation of the Electoral Law. And with this point, I suggest and initiate an initiative to change the electoral law in these absurd provisions that are not at all in the spirit of our parliamentary system and that I do not speak in accordance with the rules of the game and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15447	Thank you to Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. I think that this is absolutely in place and what should be one of the priorities in our work next year, one more serious procedure not only on these issues that are absurd, but also on certain election solutions in this law, and I hope that in this business we will then remove these things. Thank you very much. We're moving to point 22, Add 22. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH The proposal for a law establishing this agency was adopted in a different text to this and the House of Peoples. In order to bring the same text into line with the Joint Commission, they are proposed at the Extended College, Mr Adem Huskić, Mr Filip Andrić and Mr Petar Kunić. Well, you've been offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15448	No, no, can someone else be a problem, not a professor if
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15449	About matching IGE 56
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15450	Then here, let's suggest another. I respect this. Here comes Lilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2004-12-02-0.u15451	So, Mr. Adem Huskić, Mr. Filip Andrić and Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Thank you very much. Please state on the proposal that Mr. Huskić, Andrić and Mrs. Milićević are appointed to the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the same text of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH, vote now. With 31 votes for, without votes against and 1 abstention, we agreed that Mr. Adem Huskić, Mr. Filip Andrić and Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević would be part of the Joint Commission for the Consentation of the Export Credit Agency Act. Thank you very much. We're going to the 23rd point, that's it.
