ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is supposed to conclude that legal changes have strengthened the sole position of the law enforcement authority, so the prosecution and the police, and to the expense of an independent and impartial court. This calls into question the position of the court as a guarantee of man's rights in criminal proceedings, which points to the conclusion that the legislator is defined for increased repressive measures in the process. The legal concept of the proposed measure is based on the assumption that a person has committed a criminal offence from Article 370 to Article 386. First of all, it is not possible to establish in advance that someone has committed a crime because there is no evidence of that. Ladies and gentlemen, who is the protagonist for the adoption of such laws, and these changes, above all, America, England, Germany, as proven enemies of Serbia and the Serbian people. I want to remind you of the facts, first of all, of what happened in 1999. What was America, England and other countries doing towards our country, towards the SRJ and towards Serbia. They planned and destroyed with NATO the pact, insulated, impoverished Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia; they caused, fuelled and fuelled violence between certain national minorities and disrupted efforts to preserve unity, peace and stability in Yugoslavia; they destroyed the peace-making role of the United Nations; they used NATO to wage military aggression and the occupation of disobedient poor countries; they killed and violently committed injuries to the unprotected population of the former Yugoslavia. They planned, announced and carried out attacks with the intention of killing even the president of the state, both the military and political leadership of Serbia and the SRJ then. They destroyed, or damaged, economic, social, cultural, medical, diplomatic, religious facilities, institutions in the territory of the entire SRJ at the time; they attacked the facilities necessary for the life of the Yugoslav population; they attacked objects containing dangerous substances and toxins, used uranium, cluster bombs and other forbidden weapons; they extended the war to the environment; they imposed sanctions through the UN, which is a crime against this entire nation. They established an illegal ad hoc tribunal to destroy and demonise Serbian leadership; they used controlled international means of public information to create and provide support for the US and other countries' attacks, to demonise Yugoslavia, Slovenia's peoples, Serbs and others, and establish a long-term military occupation of strategic parts of Yugoslavia, or Serbia, with the help of NATO forces. They tried to destroy sovereignty, the right to self-determination, democracy and culture of Slovenian peoples, as well as other peoples in the former SRY, or SFRY. For the purpose of the US action, they have determined to dominate, control and exploit Serbia, its peoples, its territory and its natural resources. The United States uses military force and economic sanctions as a means. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposed law, I would like to say that all this has been calculated so that the Serbian leadership and the Serbian people are thus declared a people who do not respect international law. However, Serbia and its people have traditionally respected international law and international standards through history, and we respect international standards and today. What I would especially like to single out, which is that, in The Hague, a great hajka, a great tyranny towards Serbian and political leadership, and particularly a tyranny towards Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was all calculated in Belgrade, created in Belgrade, was mounted in Belgrade to be tried, only because Vojislav Seselj, with his largest political party, took power in one democratic way, so that America would set up its servants in this country to serve its interests. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why the indictment against Vojislav Seselj was filed in Belgrade. A legal-technical editorial was carried out in Belgrade. All the structures of the intelligence services, the judiciary, the military, police and other state authorities were just the ones who helped The Hague tribunal to legally-technically, right in Belgrade, bring false charges against professors Dr Vojislav Seselj. So stop the Hague tyranny! That's why he's freeing Professor Vojislav Seselj! Long live "great Serbia"! Long live the Serbian Radical Party! We expect our Army to come to Serbia, come to its people and lead this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7198	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure is almost, well, nothing. In a formal legal sense, it means the spread of secondary criminal legislation, one of the things that the SRS has always and in every place advocated, primarily here in the highest legislative body, because today there is no judge, there is no prosecutor, there is no lawyer or lawyer who is able to grasp where all your crimes are outside the Criminal Code, what penalties are provided for, and what you can answer for. This violates, above all, the fundamental principle of legal certainty, which is a denial of the rule of law and does not have to be said only by one of the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia last night, Velimir Ilic, who probably stops building some private clinic, says - I cannot build it until Serbia becomes a legal state. Thus, the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia gave a lesson to the entire government and said we live in an irregular state, a country where the principles of constitutionality and legality and the rule of law are not respected. What do we get by this law, would it be said by short changes and additions? Namely, we're getting an extension, making a so-called. A "couch" standard, in which you can put whatever you want, whatever you want, and the responsible one -- to advertise later guilty, after a stupidly written indictment, every face you don't like for one reason or another political reason. To explain in the shortest possible terms to non-matter Serbian citizens, it is an extension of the entity's crime -- aiding the perpetrator after committing the crime, which is now being placed in the jurisdiction and organisation of state authorities in connection with war crimes. I now wonder if the state of Serbia has shown that it has had a legal gap and a significant problem so far, and has unlawfully tried certain people, unlawfully held them in custody, unlawfully filed charges, including for association and criminal enterprise, as prescribed by the UN tribunal here in Serbia, since judicial tribunals in the worst possible way, not only of the judiciary, but also of the prosecution as an independent state authority. And then, in article 2, as in some Orwell state, the government of the Republic of Serbia offers us additional monitoring, listening, harassing citizens, so that they can learn more about the terrible crimes of the type – aiding the perpetrator after committing the crime. I will now, ladies and gentlemen, read you something that represents exclusive paper, an exclusive document, so I would ask you to listen to what happens when it comes to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the measures of Minister Petrovic and the measures of the other ministers in this country. You'll be surprised to hear what's going on in this country. So it's 27.09.2007. Republika Srpska, Ministry of the Interior, Police Directorate, Police Administration for the City of Belgrade, PS Novi Belgrade, number KU, Day 27.09, citizen, born 17.1.1956 in Divos, Sremska Mitrovica municipality, from father to father, lives in the street of Dr Zoran Djindjic, number 35/28. You'll see why it's interesting and significant. As regards the collection of notifications, he gave the authorised official of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, the PS Novi Belgrade, in Belgrade, on the basis of Article 225 of Article 2(2). ZPP next notice. Now I'm going to read to you to see how you're doing all kinds of things past the law, to see the citizens of Serbia what's going on in this country, and we thought in 1945 it was a long time ago. It is the second indictee before Belgrade's municipal court for a criminal offence - the help of the perpetrator after the crime was committed, and about General Mladic. Please listen to this very carefully, you'll hear amazing things. I didn't beg you from the Democratic Party, I know you're not interested, because this is what you do with your colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia. "Right after I left Central Prison, I noticed an intensive follow-up of me and my family until today, in the way I noticed driving outside my apartment, with mostly two men. It's vehicle types: white 'punto', newer production, green 'punto', 'pejo' 306, gray and white 'fabie', green 'hyundai', red 'dacia logan', white 'pel astr', new production, red and white 'lada levels'. In front of the building where I live and in places where I go with my family and friends, I see exactly the same faces, with them changing sometimes. Since the beginning of this year, I've noticed three unauthorized and highly professional investments in my apartment, without any damage. At the first entry, it is characteristic that light was left on in the living room, although I know it was also turned off when it came out. Also, on that occasion, my wife noticed that the books were moved from the shelves of the closet and the ornaments from the shelves. After that, we removed carpets and trails from the apartment so that the second time we entered the apartment, because we were away for a few days, we noticed traces of shoes with circular patterns, which none of the householders owned. Three days ago, my wife noticed that there were a dozen photos missing from a family album and a folder where I was mostly with my friends from school days and work. I only report this because I fear for the safety of my family, because I don't know who and what intentions it does." Now, ladies and gentlemen, it's Serbia today, it's your legal state and that's what you showed, it's Serbia not yesterday, it's Serbia the day before, it's Serbia's past that you brought to this country, where you're going to follow anyone you don't like, where you're going to wax figurines, or I don't know what kind of things, to go through his apartment to find some kind of document or something that your employers, first of all Carly del Ponte, could mean something. Is anyone boasting about this in Serbia? Is anyone happy about what someone's doing? Does anyone have a face to say? Well, people, this is not normal for someone to work? There isn't. You don't care, Carla del Ponte will be pleased and in the report you'll say again – did you see, those crazy and silly radicals attack us in the Assembly, we do everything for you, and you'll be happy to say something like that. I'm not worried about what they're laughing at, they're talking about themselves, they're talking about how much they respect other families, how much they respect someone's privacy and how much they care about Serbia's future. What I've read is just one in a series of things we're going to talk about here today. Namely, helping the perpetrator to commit a crime is a criminal offence if a judicial verdict proves that he committed a crime or, worst case scenario, there is a charge against him. I must inform you that in our country, for example, in the case of General Mladic, there is no criminal record of any crime, let alone a charge or a God-given verdict. Such judgments are not even in international contexts, and even before an illegal and illegal court such as the ad hoc tribunal in The Hague. So none of that bothers you. You kept people in custody for six months, left their families out of work. That villain, Zoran Stankovic, watched only as he was going to fire the daughters and wives of the people who were arrested, who, I will remind you, are some of them like Jova Djog, the bearers of the Order of Karadjordje's star, the bearers of the Order of Freedom. The bravest people who defended the Serbian people west of Drina and Danube, in the most honorable way, who protected our hearths, who protected our country, you kept them in custody, as the worst criminals, only because they helped or did not help, and you think they did, to their warlords who defended and protected the Serb people, after six months. Their daughters and wives still don't have a job. Someone cares – they don't. Carla del Ponte will be pleased. You will be pleased that you will be able to meet some of the conditions and say – great, here, we are very cooperative with you, because it is incomparably more important to us than anything else. I have a complaint here on the charges filed by Mr. Jovan Gjogo. There's something very interesting here. Mr Petrovic, and you from the DSS, in particular, who were the majority partner in the government, and today it is the DS that leads the wheel in the Serbian government, why you held people in custody for six months and did not arrest your President Vojislav Kostunica. I'll tell you why. Don't you dare look at me like I've told you a world miracle. In the witness's statements called for by the indictment, therefore, the prosecution called for witnesses, those witnesses said they had kept as much as possible until March 2002, which until July 2002, which had official protection and, in the context of that protection, used several military facilities occasionally. Let me remind you, at that time, the commander-in-chief was Vojislav Kostunica. Why isn't he on the defendant's bench as the man responsible for helping the perpetrator after the crime? Why is Jovo Djogo guilty of the same time period from 1999 to 2003 and Vojislav Kostunica is not? Why is Boris Tadic not guilty at the time, why don't you arrest him? Why don't you arrest Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, they're much more guilty than Jovo Djogo? At least Jovo Djogo defended the Serbian people, unlike these two. And not at least, he defended him so he was wounded, so he is the bearer of all the largest medals of the Republika Srpska and the state of Serbia. I can't even tell you what kind of medals these two would be. In this case, among the people you have thus detained, the entire indictment is based on a written statement by Miodrag Stanic, a former member of the unit responsible for the security of General Mladic. Interestingly, that witness never appeared before the court. He never came to explain under what conditions and under what circumstances he made such a statement. Never interested anyone, because a political order has arrived, these people have to be held in custody, these people have to be charged, and these people have to be convicted, because in our country absolutely everything is solved by such a political order and nothing else. If these people in any way have the right to prove or show that they are innocent, you will sooner and better prevent them from having a hot hickey through your media than RTS, B92, "Pinka", without any difference, explaining to us that our future is just being opened up with the daughter and wife of Jova Djog losing her job, and that Jovo Djogo is in custody, that Stanko Ristic is in custody, that this or that, that the brother and sister Vaskovici are in custody, because they are the most terrible enemies of this country. They're guilty of wearing a cell phone card and a bowl of cabbage. Now, that's their fault. It is important that they are not guilty, but that our biggest friends are on the red carpet to welcome those who killed Milica Rakic and little Sanja in Varvarin, those who destroyed our country for so long. And that's all right, because it's our future, as you say, it's our bright future and we'll live incomparably better when you love us much more and when we show that we love them much more and that we will serve them even better than we have served them in these seven years. In Serbia today, there is a real tribunal of the judiciary, all the competent state authorities, special courts, special prosecutors, as soon as you hear that there is something special, and there was no need for it, I do not criticise this most Mr Petrovic, although I see that he is fighting for the same thing, but all those who participated in the creation of these bodies. As soon as you hear it's something special, you know it's a dangerous scam. We've had district courts that judge more difficult cases today than the Special Court. We had district attorneys who could always accept most of the burden. That's what all Serbian lawyers know. This can be said to you by all judges in Serbia, but when I say everything, I really mean more than 90% of judges in Serbia and more than 90% of prosecutors in Serbia, who do their job with honor. Then "special" was done. It's special for what? Specially, he is the chief commander for all charges and for all convictions, on the one hand, Sam Nazaro, from the US Embassy and from the other side of the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it looks like, with two halfs to get orders and warrants. No, that still happened at one center, because this one sex is a little stronger and he's a "dad" and for this other sex. That's Sam Nazaro. When he turns someone from the government or doesn't give God some senior officer of that embassy, then he'll be again the same pursuit of both genders towards the same solution, which must not be changed and which in no way must you oppose. Here were also the words that some of these special prosecutors are pressing charges against some politicians from some other parties and everything has been set up, all the government has agreed. The government has already figured it out, made the whole game for it and brought in certain individuals, counting on it to be enough to end up with one of its political opponents. Then a warrant came from one embassy - you can't touch it, and then, as usual, they had to fulfill that warrant and now they don't know what to do. We have so many indictments in the state today, from the indictment of Kljajevic, whom I have never seen in my life, and I have never said a single word about him, since he was in the DS office, since he was in on October 5th, doing all sorts of miracles, I've never seen him in my life, to the charges of these last ones, and you don't know what to do with these people. Because these charges are being filed either by Nazaro or by the Serbian government and the third half, which also pushes in the same direction, are individual businessmen. We all know that here in Serbia and no one can talk about it and no one can say anything. I know exactly when you say some big robbery here or there, I know which businessman asked for it and why he asked for it. And all of you sitting in this room know it. We all know that, and we all know who he was looking for and what way, and we all know how much it costs. We all know when articles are published in newspapers, when contributions are published on television. You want me to tell you now how much it cost to campaign in two newspapers and on two TV stations against our president of the Old Paz municipality, because these two in Pazar and Tutin, who represent themselves as Austrian firms, didn't give a job? Pretty expensive. It cost them quite dearly, of course much less than what they offered us to take this job, the godless, of course, but expensive. People in Serbia are beginning to understand it, they're beginning to understand it. As soon as they see such contributions and such newspaper inscriptions, attack on someone out of pure peace with some idiotic argument, you know right away who's behind it. Either one embassy in Belgrade, or the Serbian government, but the Serbian government as a set of people who, at all times and in any case, express the interests of both these embassies and individual businessmen in this country. And, in the end, comes this highest factor, that and Orwell's dad, and that's a direct outside occupation. There's already total silence when they say something and that's why we need laws like this. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I'd like them to look at this. We have only three members here, in fact two members, this third one is so formal that you can't consider it any other way but by solving the formal, most elemental things, since it's about the date of entry into force of this law. Why was this necessary? Just to introduce listening measures, to legalize this kind of rampage between competent state authorities, to show that they can do whatever they want and scare people. Don't forget that this has another function, which isn't so insignificant. This is what I tell the MPs who are not in the SRS. Remember, this is the way the Serbian government wants to tell you -- don't play, we can make a decision through our prosecutors at any moment to follow you and listen to you for six months, to do whatever we want from your life, to get in your shoes with circular soles, to move you, to leave you a light on, and that lit light wasn't left by chance, don't think they were reckless. No, they left it on purpose to give a signal how powerful they are, how strong they are, and how much they need to be feared by an ordinary man who got into an apartment like this. What they took was just to show the authorities that something had been done. Now, that kind of spreading fear in such a way must be stopped, that we don't pursue the best among us anymore. I am absolutely sure that you will agree that whoever is the bearer of the Order and of the Karajord star and of the Freedom Order, although nothing else, is much better than any of us, because I have not yet heard that any of us have earned such an order in such a way and that with his wounds, he has paid his desire to protect the Serbian people, to help the Serb people, and in such a professional way, he has protected his country, without any fear or any demands. In all this, unlike all of us, these people live poorly, these people live hard and these people barely survive today, and the state would continue to live above them. I expect the state to explain why Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica were not arrested, not to talk about Zoran Stankovic. I'm talking about some of the factors in the political scene people remember, this Zoran Stankovic, he's not exactly a person to be remembered. I see that down in Vladic's Han he must not go to his countrymen after all he has done against Serbia. But this is a legal question. So, I ask, because one was the defence minister, and one was commander-in-chief at the time General Mladic was under the protection of the Yugoslav Army, how come they did not commit a crime - aid to the perpetrator after committing the crime, and how did Jovo Djogo, in the same period, commit a crime? I guess it's more of a responsibility of the defence minister and the president of the federal state, at that point as commander-in-chief, than anyone who might have been in his custody, in some kind of service, intelligence, or ingenuity, and maybe it's none of that. Dear friends, I think you're quite clear that we don't have anything decent from the law here, I know that coalition partners have agreed, I know that you have agreed on how and how this country has to function. I congratulate you for finally agreeing on public enterprises. I congratulate you on breaking the Law on Local Self-Government again, so you won't call the mayor's election, I think you're afraid of some candidates from the opposition. As I can see, you'd like presidential elections because you think it suits you, although you have five cumulative conditions here, which are the Law on President, Army, Defence, Foreign Affairs and Security Services, but it doesn't suit you where you don't have any conditions, where you should immediately call the elections, because neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Law has touched your rights and position as mayor. I think the citizens of Serbia are all clear. They understand what legalism and the Democratic parties and the Democratic Party of Serbia are like. Save us God and such legalism. Save us Gods of such an 'illegal' state, as Minister Velimir Ilic would say last night, if I'm not mistaken, I listened carefully to his statement. I hope that Serbia's citizens will soon, regardless of all sorts of frauds, which you are commonly inclined to serve by thinking that citizens are unwitting and that they do not see it, I'm quite sure they will see it well and recognize it. Finally, seeing as you're chasing all the free-defined people, seeing as you're bothered by any man who thinks differently from you and who doesn't think General Mladic is a criminal, I don't know what you're thinking, because no verdict has been made, I just want to show you a poster and say that General Mladic is welcome to us, he can certainly feel good about it. I brought this up especially because what I did on the B92 TV building was a special topic at a closed session from which the confidentiality mark was removed a few days ago, so I can tell you about it. At a closed session, to my great pleasure, in The Hague tribunal, the status conference, I was the main subject of Judge Jean Claude Antoinetti, how am I entitled to do so, how am I to behave, on whose orders? I am acting by order of my own conscience, by order of the freed Serb people. I will always act like this because we don't have a spare country, we only have one Serbia, and let Antoaneti and Carla del Ponte and Petrovic and Tadic and Kostunica just do their job, Serbia will win anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7200	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7201	Articles 136 and 225. By reading this bill, I get the impression, Mr Petrovic, that you are not behind this proposal. I think someone fooled you with this proposal, that you, if I may say, somehow found it in that place, gave a signature, and this went into some kind of procedure. This was written by someone else. Mr. Vucic has turned my attention now, and I've looked at some paperwork, and all I've come up with is evidence that someone else is the author, and you're being abused. Look what it's all about. The case against what is said in the newspaper was initiated on the basis of an unverified foreign citizen's statement given abroad, on the basis of which the competent authority in Serbia acted. Mr Petrovic, understand, the Serbian Ministry of War Crimes. How could they have acted on it? How could they have acted, Mr Petrovic, by this and by Article 333 in 2006, when it was not in the jurisdiction of the war crimes detection service? So the BIA, in January 2006, was then included, of course, packed by these people, held in custody for six or seven months, based on unverified information, were handled by unauthorized state authorities. Now it changes this law to legalize what they did. In doing so, it must be known that the proceedings are pending in front of another court and not before this, because it is only now that the jurisdiction for this court is being put into practice. Mr. Petrovic, this is now the second part, Article 226, Mr. Dulic, before you raise your hand for this bill, Mr. Petrovic has to explain some things to us, because of the date. I'm sure you can't do it right now, but when I say Petrovic, I mean the government, the service. What's this about? The first question – by the end of May 2002, Mr. Ratko Mladic, where was he in a working relationship? The second question – what was Rade Bulatovic doing during that period? From him to take a statement, what his findings are about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7202	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7203	Just one more sentence. He won't be angry with me to mention Zoran Stankovic. He was the defence minister, but he also treated Ratko Mladic. If you look at the movie Karlina List, she says – she will be elected defence minister one man, he is my expert in The Hague, he is a personal friend of Ratko Mladic, he treated Ratko Mladic. This is all after 1995, Mr Petrovic. Of course, within a circle of faces that would have to sort of come out, they say about this, before any of us raises hands for Article 333.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7204	Mr. Krasic, I have a proposal for you, since more MPs have come forward, I will sign you up right now. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Verica Radet, appeared and then Cedomir Jovanovic, and Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7205	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is why we claim that there is a tribunal of the Serbian judiciary in Serbia. I don't know if you remember when the trial of Jovo Djog and others who are allegedly the flocks of General Mladic began, so you called them unaware of how beautiful it means to be a pillow in the Serbian people, because the heroes always had pillows. When the session was closed and all the TVs were recorded when Mr. Jovo Djogo and the other defendants left the courtroom, and the trial didn't even begin, because in a closed session next to lawyers and Natasha Kandic, and another representative from the Fund for Humanitarian Law, completely past the law, was sitting investigator of The Hague tribunal. When people noticed, of course, that they did not accept to participate in the farsi, as the court council president and president of the court council, Minister Petrovic could not explain to them that it had the right to sit in a closed session, a session closed to the public, a representative of The Hague tribunal. Yesterday I asked you, Mr. Minister, you did not answer my question and I am now asking this as a parliamentary question – as a lawyer, do you claim that General Ratko Mladic committed a war crime? Do you admit or not the presummation of innocence? You'll have to answer that, if not now, then while you're going through the literature and remember what you learned in your first year of law school. The second question – do you have any intention and what will you do with the people whose gates you will see what Mr. Vukic has just shown, a safe house for Ratko Mladic, will you arrest all these people? We have reliable knowledge, Mr. Minister, that next to Sam Nazar, who is soon due to expire, and Natasha Kandic, who burns and burns in the Special Court, is that there is an office in which every morning he comes to work regularly and a gentleman who is a foreigner, is not from Serbia, does not speak Serbian. The question for you as Minister – first, who is this gentleman, second, on what basis is he using this office in the Special Court, and third, most importantly, what is his impact on the proceedings and on the sentence of the persons against whom the Special Court of War Crimes is being conducted? These are all parliamentary questions, Mr. Minister. If you cannot respond immediately, and I suppose that since you are a party representative who has advocated the formation of special courts and special prosecutors, therefore, if you cannot answer now, then I ask you to do so when we discuss the law in particular, not in writing, but in this place, to be heard by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7206	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7207	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which states that MPs must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, I must warn you that as President of the Assembly, you have chosen the wrong way to handle it during today's session. Avoiding the application of the Rules of Procedure due to the consequences it will follow is not a good example and something like that must not become a rule of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The laws exist to be respected, applied regardless of the consequences, and the Rules of Procedure as well. We are discussing very serious amendments and additions to the law and it is totally unacceptable that at a time when people are left without a job that the flocks are to someone who is accused of war crimes, people are to be detained because they suspect that they have cooked someone's lunch or delivered a telephone card, you cross over the fact that one MP has declared the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia safe house for Ratko Mladic. This is the last address in Serbia that can be said of such a thing without taking responsibility for such a thing. I know that for the MP who did this, it's not a problem to take responsibility, it's in a political sense and take over, but this institution has to take a stand on it. Is this a safe house for Ratko Mladic or not? We of the LDP argue that this is not a safe house for Ratko Mladic and that this is the last place where such a thing can be demonstrated without being declared as Parliament. Is the SRS safe house for Ratko Mladic? It is a question for the SRS, it is a question for Ratko Mladic, but for us LDPs it is unacceptable to just go through a demonstration of something that is punishable in every other place. Can a judge go out and bring out a banner in his courtroom – a safe house for Ratko Mladic without being sanctioned? He can't. Can a cop do it? He can't. How about an officer? He can't. Then it can't even be done in the Serbian Parliament, because if it's done here, and it's not sanctioned, then it's a message that we can expect something like that in every place tomorrow. How to get over it so quietly, it doesn't matter, someone went out with a banner and nobody. That someone's a politician, he's not subject to the rules that apply to each other. Apply the Rules of Procedure, sanction such a thing, because it is a disregard for the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is also sanctioned in every other place in Serbia, or say there is no law in this country because there are no institutions that have established these laws to apply and protect. The Rules of Procedure exist to be respected. We believe that the Assembly must not pass through this demonstration, this gesture of the SRS MPs. They have their right to political opinion, but you are obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 says the MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We ask the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote, and to do so by you, about this violation committed by Aleksandar Vukic, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the last place in which a person accused of war crimes can be glified, and certainly Ratko Mladic is not a person who has anything here to ask for safety and support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7208	Thank you. Since MP Aleksandar Vukic is mentioned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am, as pleased as I am with this political event by Mr Jovanovic, and I have no need to shout like he has, I think you hear me loud enough and without any anxiety I am proud to come to you for what I have done, proudly, not only for taking political responsibility, but for being ready to take responsibility for every child in Serbia that you are chasing just because you love freedom of this country, for taking responsibility in his name. I was the one, Mr. Jovanovic, who glued the first poster to the B 92 TV building, which led a hysterical campaign against every Serb who thinks differently from them. Thank God, and thank God for asking, there are more of them than they are. So, I don't have any problem with that, whatever you want, the powers of the government and you who support them in everything, except in certain businessmen, until that stage around these businessmen goes away, but in the meantime, the cash is out, so I have absolutely no problem with all of that. I'm ready. You want to go to jail? I'm going to jail, but the right to fight for freedom and to advocate the freedom of my people and the right to presumption of independence - don't forget, Mr. Jovanovic, I know that you know little about the right, I don't want to say any more difficult word, so this man is innocent because no court has passed a strong verdict against him, and you are only pursuing him because he was protecting and defending the Serbian people. This house, as far as you're concerned, is not safe for General Mladic, she is safe for us. Our MPs' benches, our MP offices, are perfectly safe. This poster didn't come up with us, that you weren't giving me much authority, that's what some young people from Organisation 1389 came up with, I just liked that poster, so I asked some of the people to bring it to me. As far as sanctions are concerned, as far as anything else goes, I have no problem with that, but you have to explain on the basis of what legal act, where you have to violate the basic legal principle of the presummation of any man's innocence and who you are to determine who are criminals in this country and who are not. It doesn't occur to me, Mr. Jovanovic, that I speak for you either, even though the representatives of this regime talk a lot about it, or anyone else. I think every man is innocent until proven otherwise. And in this man not only do I believe that he is innocent until proven otherwise, I am quite sure that all the charges are a product of manipulation, the product of the worst possible lies, attempts at Satanization, and at the same time, I will use the term that Zoran Krasic used yesterday, the attempt of Serbia's 'desrbification'. (President: Time. ) I thank you, Mr. Dulic, for your understanding and your correctness, and you, please, apply all the measures. I can wait for someone's bodyguards, they can do whatever they want, whoever they want, and whatever they want, and I'm happy for the fact that I don't have bodyguards, everywhere and anywhere I go, because I have nothing to hide from my people and my citizens. If that bothers you, I told you, our MPs' benches, our MP offices, and my house, Mr. Jovanovic, and in every place of the entire family of Vukic, we are not a small family, in every place there will be just this, to show you once again, the safe house for General Mladic. Thank you very much, there's no need to worry so much, or yell, or eat, in the most peaceful tone I speak, and I'm fully prepared to take any responsibility. I wish everyone else in the National Assembly would be ready for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7210	Since I am also directly questioned for my position, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will never be a safe house for anyone on an international arrest warrant accused of war crimes, so that is not the case with General Ratko Mladic. Also, my house is not a safe house for General Ratko Mladic, but I cannot prevent it, nor will I ever do it, that any MP from any political group is politically manifesting its position. I will fight for every man's right to manifest his position, that attitude will be declared by citizens in the elections. Don't ask me to introduce some order here that simply cannot be introduced because the SRS position is known, it has been manifested so far and will likely be in the future. That's my answer specifically to your remark that the Rules of Procedure have been broken and, of course, we will make a statement in the voting day about it. In doing so, I express my deep disagreement with this political event, but I will not prevent any kind of political manifestation that is in line with the Rules of Procedure and which does not violate what is right in this National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Amjad Migati, then Bozidar Delic, then Vesna Pesic, then Cedomir Jovanovic, then Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7211	Article 226, I request a written reply from the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the minister of justice – what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or what has Serbia in general prepared if the UN General Assembly opens a debate on the work of the Hague tribunal, because, as you know, the Croatian government has already announced that they want to open the debate, to discuss the work of an illegal court in The Hague, because the UN Charter is not respected in its establishment. I also ask this question because of the following, in 2004, Lavrov, Russia's then representative to the UN, asked the Serbian representative what objections they have on the work of The Hague tribunal and the trial, over a discussion to be held in the Security Council. The representative then said with great fear – no, no, we are satisfied, please, let us not discuss it at all. We now do not know the position of the new government, or the current government, because they are satisfied with the work of the UN tribunal, and most people are not satisfied. Because they want to continue acting so that Serbia remains not only a banana republic, but a republic of banana crust, which does not defend international legal nor the interests of its citizens, but does the opposite of the Constitution. If so, let us be told that they are satisfied, if they are not satisfied, if they want to do the same, as they have not so far, to defend the legal order, the international legal order, the Constitution and the regulations of the Serbian state, then make it public and loud. Because, in this case, the SRS, or Professor Vojislav Seselj and the defense team, will deliver all the main shortcomings of the verdicts given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and without any legal basis, because there are many such cases. Then we want to participate and help. If not, let them say loudly and clearly to the citizens that the Constitution is invalid, that The Hague tribunal is a god and a beating, that Carla del Ponte is stronger than anyone in that country, so let the citizens decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7212	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Bozidar Delic appeared and then Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7213	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS points to the laws proposed by the Government and which you here most of you adopt. We try our amendments, and we try our discussions from this pay phone to show you that much of what you're doing is not in the citizens' interest. And this amendment to the law you're proposing is also not in the citizens' interest. Some of the services that have been running and rampaging around Serbia have now been given enormous powers based on this law that has been passed under pressure, it is known which years, and which you have not long ago violated in the worst possible way. The SRS, if some laws have already been passed, advocates that they are respected. In the case of General Tolimir, this law, as well as the Constitution, has been violated many times. I've been counting some constitutional provisions somewhere, so once upon a time, and from this pay phone, I've said that the Constitution in his case, when it comes to freedom and the rights of citizens, has been violated as many as 37 times. The Hague has finished its story, those people, I think there are two of them, who expect to be in The Hague, they'll never see. And normally, we from the SRS in that attitude are different from you. But, Mr. Minister, you are building a new Hague here in Serbia and therefore this law is not good for Serbian citizens. Here in Belgrade, Colonel Zandermeria Mitrovic Radosav has been in custody for two years. A man, along with me on March 25th, went into combat facts on the breaking of the Ship's 124th brigade. A man who has nothing to do with a crime committed in the Dry River. However, this and today's current government came up with some knowledge of the perpetrators of the Suvoj Reka crime, she saw that they did not have adequate acts, and The Hague asked that the Suva Reka be associated with the late President Milosevic. That's why they need a high rank. At the time, the colonel, and later Colonel Gandarmeria, Mitrovica, was the most convenient person, because he was on the territory at the time. In my investigation, I was asked to make a statement. They thought I'd come as other witnesses with empty hands. I've brought complete documentation, a warrant for this combat fact, a decision on the map, all the reports, all the sketches on the case. (President: Time. Please, one more minute. Now that the trial is under way, out of dozens of witnesses, only one witness has confirmed that Colonel Žandarmeri, Mr. Mitrovica, was seen in Suvoj Tell on the day of the crime. He could only be seen passing through the dry river towards his command post. No other witness has confirmed his involvement in all this. I've asked for more than one lawyer to appear as a witness to the defense, but the gentlemen say we won't disturb General Delic, he has other obligations. I think my obligation to justice and truth is above all other obligations. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to be interested in the case of Colonel Mitrovica, who has been in prison for two years. Only his arrest here in Belgrade was carried out in an extremely embarrassing way. He was called from the Homeland Security Zone in uniform to give the minister specific explanations. He thought about the Homeland Security Zone, and when he showed up in his office, he was arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7214	Thank you, General. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Vesna Pesic appeared, and then Zoran Krasic, and Nebojsa Ranđelović, and Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7215	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, I must tell you that you are responsible for threatening and insulting the dignity of the Serbian Parliament because you are calling for abuse of freedom of opinion. It is not the freedom of opinion to defend crime, to insult public morality, and that our state and the eyes of our citizens and the world is transformed into a state and Parliament which is the only one in the world, this is the only Parliament in the world that allows for freedom of opinion, as you have interpreted it, to advertise it, to really praise crime and that a country, which is in very difficult international problems, is shown in this light, that it can defend crime – eight thousand people in Srebrenica. I'm sorry, you can't hide this as a right to freedom of opinion, because no society can defend itself, advertise, insult public morality and represent its own state both in front of the people and in front of the world that we are people who defend crime and someone who is accused of the most serious war crimes. Therefore, do not call for freedom of opinion. You are the president who fails to maintain the elementary dignity of this assembly. That's your weakness. You can only apologize to us for this leadership of the congregation, not to call for freedom of opinion. It's not freedom of mind. There's a law that forbids advertising crimes. It's a crime, what you do. So you can't praise people and say that they're Serbian heroes, those who committed crimes -- eight thousand people. Second, it's talking here and it's trying to juggle some kind of legal category like the presummation of innocence. I know there's a presummation of innocence, but the presummation of innocence, Mrs. Radeta and Mr. Vukic, since you two are lawyers, refers to a procedural issue. You can't do a lobotomy on my head and convince me that Hitler isn't a criminal because he doesn't have a valid verdict. Indeed, we need you to give us a head lobotomy to believe when it comes to the young man's presummation of independence. That's obvious. It's for a court that makes it a procedural right for the defendant to act that way. Presumption of innocence, you can say for different people, here, I set an example. Where's the verdict? You're supposed to be doing a lobotomy over us here in the congregation, over the entire nation, that we accept this kind of attitude here in the Assembly. Don't, please, Natasha Kandic, how she and it's a very great shame what you're doing, Mrs. Radeta, to attack a woman who does her job very well and honestly, that she's doing Special Court. Secondly, my most important argument is this: there is a verdict of the International Court of Justice, according to that verdict, as you know, Serbia has been convicted partly of genocide, because it did not prevent, please, these are facts, there is no appeal against that verdict, it is the UN court that you deny and then you are calling for international law. Well, what right do you have at all to take into your mouth, if you deny the International Court, he condemned Serbia because Serbia did not prevent genocide. And why else? Because he hides those who are accused of the most serious crimes, above all of Srebrenica, who was also declared a genocide in Srebrenica. Are we, Mr. Wolfie, a people who defend genocide? (President: Time. Whether we're a state that doesn't want to deal with crime, we're going to continue with crime. You call it patriotic politics. I don't know what to call it, that someone who supports crime and it's patriotism still in Serbia today. Mr. Dulic, it is a great shame that you support this view and that you still declare it a freedom of opinion in the Assembly. Mr. Minister, you had to stand up immediately and say, to oppose such commercialism, so to speak, the crimes we face here in the Assembly, that Serbia, our state, is declared a safe house for Ratko Mladic. In addition, I also expected this side of Parliament to mess up the bar, says, let go of some reaction to what is happening in Parliament and what Mr. Vukic is giving us every other day, to live in the safe house of Ratko Mladic. Thank you very much. Such patriots are not the kind of Serbia, fate of Serbia, we do not want.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7216	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, then Nebojsa Rangelovic, then Aleksandar Vukic. Only that Mr Krasic gave up, but he won't give up, so I apologize to Mr. Vukic, Mr. Rangelovic won't give up, so he's reporting to the Rules of Procedure and he's coming out now, so Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7217	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I report to members 104, 215 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As someone who deals with law and who teaches such a thing at the Faculty of Law in Nis, I feel the need to say that there are many concepts being manipulated here, especially criminal and criminal law, in a malicious and incorrect way. Presumption of innocence is not a category of criminal-processing law beyond which the perpetrators of criminal acts can be unrestricted. Presumption of innocence, as a rule of criminal law, has its own criminal consequences, but it does not prevent and cannot prevent the measures of police and judicial authorities that restrict the human rights of the accused. Also, according to our country's legislation, The Hague tribunal is a legal judicial body, therefore, a legal court with which we are obliged to co-operate. Not giving up a court is a felony, so in that case, the rule of presummation of innocence cannot be applied. Ratko Mladic, by not giving up the UN tribunal, committed a crime and there is no presummation of innocence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7218	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic appeared and then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to analyze what the MP Vesna Pesic brought out here. She was talking about some lobotomy. You've been doing lobotomy over us for seven years, seven years over all of Serbia, over every citizen of Serbia who thinks differently from you. You're the one who scares everyone here. It is you who will command here and the ministers and all the others that they must hear or shout, just as you do when you go out for a pay phone, I don't mean personally, but representatives of your parliamentary group, all the way to the head of your parliamentary group. Do you think I'm really scared of Cedomir Jovanovic when he starts yelling? I don't sleep at night, right to tell you, out of fear, but not for myself, but with Serbia, because I hear what you're saying. You say – don't do anything about Natasa Kandic, it's a wonderful and honest person. Is that the one who slaps exiles from Kosovo and Metohija, who are 70 years old, and then your courts must say that she is not guilty because she was in "special condition". He's always in special condition. She's in "special condition" when she talked about Tomislav Nikolic and the grandmothers in Athens who were killed, so you campaigned against Tomislav Nikolic over your media for 20 days. What happened to that verdict? What now has no verdict against Natasa Kandic, because the ex-offic was and the prosecutor is obliged to file an application, and Tomislav Nikolic also filed? Why is there no conviction for this kind of lie committed by Natasa Kandic? How come you don't talk about it? Imagine me saying that you killed 20 people, and you didn't do it. I don't know, maybe it is, maybe you didn't, but let's assume that you didn't, that I've been doing it for 20 days on all televisions and then telling me – it's a very fair and nice performance, he didn't do anything wrong. Is that your message? Is it your message that you can make up whatever you want, say against whoever you want, and no one can answer you? I'm sorry, you didn't scare me at all. I'll answer as long as I live. Perhaps I will not deal with politics, I will answer you as long as I live, my children will answer you, Serbia will never be able to destroy, no matter how hard we try. You've come out here and you've done the most corrupt manipulation. You say you're protecting a crime. No, I condemn every crime, I condemn a crime in Srebrenica, I'm not ashamed to say, but I condemn a crime in Bratunc, I condemn a crime in Knin, Clay, Vrgin Most, Topusco, Slunj, in every place where Serbs are expelled, not just for non-Serb population. You see, Mrs. Pesic, my conscience is clear. I can also mention Srebrenica, but also Bratunac, Knin, Klecka and any other crime scene. That's what you and I are different about. I condemn every crime. Thank God we're different in that, too. We've never defended criminals. When you show me who's a proven criminal and established any verdict, anywhere, then I'll tell you that you might be right. Until then, I will never give you the right to give every Serb you think of or think of as a war criminal, to be a war criminal to me and to be a war criminal. He's not a war criminal to me. And in that, too, with pride, we differ. (President: Mr. Vukic, time has expired to report to the Rules of Procedure. ) I did not allow the MPs of the SRS to warn you at the time when Vesna Pesic was finishing for the sixth minute, because I told them that they should let Mrs Pesic speak as much as she wanted to. And that's what we're different about. I don't have any problem with hearing what she's thinking and what she wants to say. (President: Please finish this presentation or report to the Rules of Procedure again, given that this topic will be current for some time. Here you go. Finish it. Next, you say they should have stopped in any way. How? Is that how you stood up after October 5th to put us in stadiums, according to Hitler's principle? Do you form a KP panel, lustrational, that your ten members say you have not broken the law, you are not criminals, you are not like us, since we have committed a lot of crimes, and you have not broken the law, so we will remove you from public life because we think you have violated human rights. It's your policy. So they worked in Nazi Germany, and so they did in many other countries. The methods you use, the methods of lies, the methods of manipulation, the methods of deception, are the characteristics of the worst totalitarian regimes in which, by means of the thesis, you represent the victim as a executioner, and you represent the executioner. (President: Mr. Vukic, you have now received the same time as MP Vesna Pesic. Please leave the pay phone now, and you'll get your chance again. I'm done, Mr. Dulic. I don't have any problem, and I don't have a lack of arguments that I'd have to yell from this pay phone. Mrs. Pesic, what you're throwing isn't right for you. (President: Thank you. ) Hold on, Mr. Dulic, because it is important that I tell the citizens of Serbia what Mrs. Pesic said. Mrs. Pesic was talking about covering her ears. Mrs. Pesic, don't like you. You're an intellectual. I would never say that to you. I cover myself with a blanket when I'm cold, and I never cover my cheek, because it's clean, because unlike you, I'm fighting for Serbia's freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7220	I'd like to inform you that it's time to report to the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. Since MP Vesna Pesic has been given a long time, so has Aleksandar Vukic, but I will now warn you after the third minute. Please hold for three minutes and respect the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7221	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not a controversy about the right of people to think freely. I reacted, first of all, to take care of the credibility of the institution that we represent, an institution that cannot afford the right that allows others in our society. We are discussing amendments and additions to the Law that sanction much more benign procedures than those whose testimony we were during the debate on the Law itself, at the time when Parliament was identified and identified, in our opinion, with a safe house for the person charged with the most serious war crimes - for genocide. Republika Srpska was convicted of genocide in Srebrenica, and Serbia was convicted before the International Court of Justice for not doing anything to prevent the genocide and for not sanctioning those who committed the genocide, or failed to arrest them and, co-operated with the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague, enabled them to sanction them in accordance with the laws. One and a half verdict, both in both cases, and in Republika Srpska and Serbia, is a key person, in fact, Ratko Mladic. At a time when our country is fighting for a new understanding in the international community, building its political foundations on international law, we, like the Serbian Parliament, allow this same international right to be derrogated in such a way and thrown under the feet of cheap populistism that will not do any good to this society, as it has not brought it to it for the past 20 years. We don't need to discuss who the patriot is here, who not. Also, as LDP MPs, we will not allow a society of so humiliating debates in the Serbian Parliament, such as the one currently being held in Zagreb. The anti-Serbian court reached an anti-Croatian verdict, and Ratko Mladic and those who defend him today are similar in the way they defend him and by reason of those who defend in Zagreb, let's say, Ante Gotovina. As for our relationship with you, Mr. President, we will try to help you, but you will have to be prepared to take over part of the responsibility that follows the function that you are in. And that goes for you too, Mr. Petrovic, as much as you try to shorten this debate, to get out of it as painlessly as possible, and the silent position in front of these gestures is devastating. That's why we're wandering around in the 21st century today burdened by incompetences of generations who before us didn't know how to establish a system of values, and unfortunately that system of values doesn't even know how to establish those who are in power today. Part of it we tried to do and we did. While we formed here in Parliament's parliament majority, Ratko Mladic could not count on any security, and those who thought that in the Serbian Parliament could do what was not done anywhere, in no other place, in any other institution, they were sanctioned for it. We will vote in favour of punishing Alexander Vukic for insulting our society, jeopardising this institution and thus showing that serious policy protects the interests of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7222	Since the list of MPs has no longer been reported for the word, before the principled search is concluded, let me just read this and you'll get the word, please. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, then will be given to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, and someone else who has not used his right under Article 95.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7223	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't understand this kind of threat with these consequences and what would happen to me. Whatever happens to me, we don't have a problem. Whatever you do and whatever you force them to do, the right to tell you I'm not particularly brave, especially not like the ones you haunt every day and I'm not scared of anything, honestly, and you're not gonna notice fear. And we will never allow those who are the worst in Serbia to see fear in any man who would stand up to them. What I did today was my wish and my intention, I absolutely take every kind of responsibility, to tell Serbian citizens that they can feel free to think, that they can stand up to Cedomir Jovanovic and his threats, that they can stand up to this kind of government that arrests people and fires people from work just because they were carrying a plate of cabbage or a plate of beans. If they are guilty of a plate of cabbage and a plate of beans, then I am more guilty. I did this terrible crime, I showed one piece of paper, a poster, from a congregation pay phone – like when you arrested those young people and sent them in the fastest possible way to the Padinska Skele, I went and did the same thing, so you had to let them go. So, I don't have any problem with that. I think in this country, Mr. Minister, you should deal with some serious crimes other than what someone else thinks and what Mr. Jovanovic is persecuting. I have to remind you that it's not true that he was forbidding someone when he was making a majority in this congregation, what he was going to talk about. From the same pay phone in 2003 and 2002, I spoke very similar words, and then Mr. Jovanovic, however, only a little bit of haughtiness and ossion and more throats, represented his views, I guess he felt even more security and threatened a little more, than the case today. I don't have any problem with that. You continue with your threats, we will not answer to you, in any way possible, but with our policy and our attitude towards free Serbia to continue, because we think that free Serbia will not be until the moment those who would only fulfil one's orders, who would blame all the Serbian people and those who advocate the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, those who advocate the destruction of Serbia in all its stitches, who would hold any moral sermons for us. I wasn't talking about patriotism here today, or what you'd like to talk about, traitors, foreign mercenaries, and I didn't mention anything, and I didn't say a single word. (President: Time. Ladies and gentlemen, it bothers you that you have no argument, and it bothers you that I condemn every crime, the contagion of you who condemn only the crime in Srebrenica. There's only one thing I have to tell you, at least you are, and that's why I went out for this pay phone, you're authorized to tell us what kind of policy we're going to run, and you're going to let us or not. Come on, let's see how you won't let us do that. We are prepared to give everything for Serbia's freedom and for our country, everything we have, and to see what you will do and see how you will stop us in anything, and what will you do? Maybe you can beat us? Let's see that too. Whatever you do, you can have bodyguards, you can have a great force of ambassadors and you can have a state and you can have whatever you want, arrest, do whatever you want. Come on, let's see what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7224	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7225	Whatever you do, you don't scare us. We will certainly continue our work of saving Serbia, from those like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7226	It's time for the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The word has been issued by MP Vladan Batic, an authorised representative. Here, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7227	Our group of MPs didn't use their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7228	In the second part, it's only used for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7229	Mr. President, take away what's going on. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the story of a war crimes trial and inevitably brings us back to the principle of universal justice. This means that crime must be held accountable and I will remind you of the words of the late Ulof Palme, who said, that crime is always a crime and that terror is always terror and that they can never be done in the interest of, for God's sake, some higher goals and higher interests. We had this problem here, this problem exists in the international community, never until the Rome Statute was founded on a permanent International Criminal Court, so you remember that a court was formed in Nuremberg, then a court in Tokyo, so Russell's Committee for the Vietnam trial, so the Hague Tribunal for the Prosecution of Crimes in the former SFRY and the Tribunal for Crimes in Rhodesia. There were resistances here, regardless of how we remember the beginning of the story of co-operation with The Hague tribunal is related to the Dayton Agreement. I must remind you that at the time of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, two people went to the tribunal, Erdemovic and Kremenovic. So, it doesn't bond all the time to DOS. When we came to power, a part of the DOS that wanted a European democratic Serbia insisted that the crime must be answered. Because we have to admit that some of our countrymen have committed crimes on our behalf, that they bloodied the hands and the one who committed the crime at Srebrenica for him is The Hague reward, not punishment. He is to answer to a terrible court, he has dirtyed centuries of sacred tradition, turned to graves and Zivojin Misic and Duke Putnik and General Bojovic, those who respected the laws and customs of war. They were heroes and heroes. Those whose deeds the world admired, marveled and appreciated. One Milunka Savic, the greatest hero of World War I, who was not a patriot in wages, but who was decorated with all possible medals, before which the entire French army was placed on Shanzeliza Avenue, in front of Francis Depere, returned to the post of cleaning lady at the Agrarian Bank. And not those who killed, who bloodied their hands, got apartments of a few acres each, in the eyes of several people and those who now make some balance of crime, became heroes and heroes and patriots. No, they're not, they're criminals, and that's what we need to be told in public, but what kind of politics we ran back then, those authorities, was created a balance of crime. We denied our crimes, but we did not insist on the responsibilities of others for the crimes they committed against us. I am a witness to these events, as under the circumstances I was in the position of the minister of justice and led a huge controversy over it with the chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal. Gentlemen of this and previous government, until Ramush Haradinaj and Agim Ceku became prime ministers of the Kosovo government, no one ever mentioned their responsibility for the crimes, and then the post-festum reminded you that they were committing crimes. I've been doing it, I know it, intensively, along with my co-workers from the Department of Justice. We sent thousands of evidence to The Hague and at least proved something, and our wish was to prove in that part that it was not any struggle for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, but crime and terror, as we have proven and claimed that the most terrible crime was committed in Srebrenica. He cannot be justified, nor should he be exalted. So that was the motive when, as then minister of justice, I started with my associates, and even wrote, none of us from some international community, someone here mentioned it, didn't ask. We are the promoters and those who have passed the law to judge war crimes here, because we believed that we had passed this moral catharsis that a crime must be answered, that he has no national omens, that he cannot have a name and name. Crime is always a crime. That's why it's been formed, as popularly called, the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, to show the world that we've come to this state of consciousness, to this level of acceptance of civilization values, European and Christian civilizations, to judge crimes, not to make criminals up and turn them into heroes, heroes and patriots. That law changes these changes. It's no violation of human rights. The violation of human rights is what happens for days, months and years ago, that, without prosecution, without court, some people, and especially political non-insects, listen, record, photograph and follow. I'm personally a witness to that. At least now it gets legal frameworks for those suspected of protecting, protecting or helping war crimes indictees. There's something else about that. Mr. Minister, there will be three years tomorrow from the Topcider crime. Three years! Three years since the guards on Topcider were killed, Drazen Milovanovic and Dragan Jakovljevic. Three years as their families hope that justice will be established, three years when they will be rekilled every day, when they can't burn, silence, parastos according to our Orthodox customs of a patriarchal environment to give to their loved ones. For three years it's been going on because some people are without morals and honor in so-called honor. The military investigation wanted to cover up what happened on Topcider, and it happened that they saw one who wasn't convicted, but accused of the most serious war crimes, Ratko Mladic. Everybody knows that and everybody's quiet. So they had to die and were returned to their homes and their parents in metal coffins. That's why there's one conspiracy of silence, and that's why Visbaden, the FBI lab, is being distracted, and there's no relevant evidence being sent to them so they can give their judgment, their findings and their opinions, and that court and opinions are clear to everyone. No one, Mr. Petrovic, is why he has not been having any controversies. I welcome what you've done when it comes to the iguman, the monk Ilarion, but it's a drop in the sea. This sin, this crime is much more serious. That's what you knew. On October 1st 2004, The Hague tribunal notified our authorities where Ratko Mladic's shelter is at the Karas underground facility. On October 2nd, an inspection of the Karash underground facility was attempted, a bloodbath occurred between the two military units, on October 5th they were shot. Some of the people who conducted the investigation, who gave shines of conflicting opinions, first Milovanovic killed Jakovljević and himself, and then Jakovljevic Milovanovic himself, and then one of them stood, the other sat, and there appeared some obscenities over the so-called. Public service. Either way, the truth, at least officially verified, is gone, and the people who led these proceedings have adventured, Mr. Petrovic. Take care of them a little bit. Wolf Tufegdzic has advanced in his career. For two and a half years, the Jakovljevics against Vuk Tufegdzic, because they believe that he insulted their late son in newspapers and on televisions, diminished, presented personal and family opportunities. It hasn't moved in two and a half years. The expert of the Independent State Commission, Mrs Baralic, also filed a private criminal suit. Two and a half years of this process, because a man has given himself the right to be insulted, belittled, etc., the same man who in one of the most bizarre ways attacked a police patrol at the League. He, Mr Petrovic, progressed in his career, became an investigative man, saying this only phenomenally, I'm not interested in Vuk Tufegdzic. (President: Time. I think it's important. He became the district court's investigative judge at the War Crimes Council, and the whole Topcider story's genealogy is about war crimes. When we went out to see each other after a year and entered the Karash underground facility, I was surprised that everything was clean, impeccable, so in the bedroom, people taking care of hygiene aren't so clean and down water. I ask – what is this? Like, they don't know what it is, condensation. And then someone tells me, incognito, because they're afraid, that the steamers cleaned all the halls and all the rooms in the Karash underground facility, so that the investigating judge doesn't think to start with a DNA analysis, and the same judge at the trial says, not to the media, DNA analysis, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it's never revealed anything, it's not a means of modern crime and modern crime. So, Mr. Minister, this is the best of intentions. These poor and unhappy people, I take them as a paradigm, there is also the family of Zarkovic, the family of Kostic, the family of Matic, 48 other families, but this is the exemplar – they were killed because they saw war criminals and it is silenced, it goes on forever. Every day we keep killing them a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7230	Mr Batic, article 93, says – the president of the parliamentary group has the right to speak up to 20 minutes, with this time being able to divide into two parts by 10 minutes for the opening statement and the closing word. The MPs from your parliamentary group resent that I have given 10 minutes, as far as I know, 10 minutes is the opening word and 10 minutes is the final word. Since you didn't use the right to use the introductory word, use the right to the final word. Go ahead, finish your exposure. Since you haven't used that right, go ahead, finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7231	Mr. President, be nice and try again, I didn't understand anything. One more minute. I didn't understand, that someone wants out of our MP group a word, but OK, this is my appeal to a respected colleague, Minister Petrovic. It has something to do with that item that's on the agenda, otherwise I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7232	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bozidar Delic and Zeljko Vasiljevic have come forward, I would really like to urge that we slowly bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7233	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the second time Mr. Batic is talking about the crime of the Karas facility. It's such a lie and it's exactly the lobotomy Mr. Batic wants to perform on our brains. Gentlemen, at that time I was an active general and I was responsible not only for the Karash facility, but for all the facilities of special purpose. Three men in this country could enter these facilities without permission: Chief of General Staff, his deputy and I. In my officer's honor, I claim that none of the people wanted by the UN tribunal were in those facilities. Mr. Batic said one true thing. I asked the Chief of Staff to relieve me before there was an event in Karash. Three days before that event, security service using the captain, who usually works at the guard brigade and who was known by security guards, when you pass the Karash facility, you will see a small hatch through which a guard is required to check who is the person standing outside the door, he spotted a captain who usually visits the guards and has the right to enter the first part of the facility and let him go. When he opened his door, masked Cobras fell into the facility without me being asked for any approval. Right away, all the guards, all the officers, put all the officers up against the wall and disarmed, and then stormed into the facility. The Cobras and Security Services have examined the entire facility. Now, apparently, they had some knowledge that one of the Hague indictees might be there. So three days before this event happened. I found out about it the next day, because the people who provide the facility, who are extremely responsible, informed me about it. Since I felt that this was a mistrust with me, I asked Mr. Krga to take criminal action against members of the military police service, according to a colonel, whom I will not appoint here, because Mr. Krga also violated certain legal regulations, he gave that approval, but gave a blank approval that immediately all other military facilities were specially designed and controlled in the same way. When this event happened, I wrote the first order and formed the first commission to determine whether there was a responsibility of the military organisation. Mr. Krga later formed another commission, but he appointed me president of the commission. Both committees have concluded that there is no responsibility of the military organisation. This tragic event has been used in a completely inappropriate way for a long time. That's what Mr Batic does in particular. You have to trust people, and we didn't interfere with them in the business, which is both professional in autopsy and all the clues. What I want to say again in the end – in the buildings of a special purpose never, absolutely never found any of the Hague indictees.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7234	Replica, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform Mr. Delic that the Ministry of Defence issued a statement confirming that, in time, at the Karash facility, the guard barracks on Topcider, were hiding Hague indictees. That's official information from the Department of Defense. That's one detail. A second detail, if that's what it's all about, then why the ambulance came after 50 minutes in downtown Belgrade. Why, then, is it not properly provided to perform a graphoscopy, dactyloscopy, a paraffin glove for all who were in the circle of the Guard Brigade? Why are no shells, rifles, uniforms adequately preserved in an appropriate way, why is this not all done as is otherwise done and in much simpler events with fatal consequences in the most important situations? Then why did the military investigation come out only with statements? We've initiated the formation of an Independent State Commission. People who were experts, ballistics, forensic experts gave their own court. They have no motive to put themselves on any side. Then they became the target of those who keep trying to say that only their truth is true. I will remind you, experts from the Independent State Commission have made an unambiguous conclusion that both soldiers of the guard, Dragan Jakovljevic and Drazen Milovanovic, were first disarmed and killed, so they were shot. Then they've done impeccable attempts at the time of the investigation. Look at this shame, when Milovanovic was said to have killed Jakovljevic, then himself, then the campaign began that Milovanovic was from a socially endangered family with psychological defects, intellectually inferior, prone to incident behavior and even more ugly things. When the version was changed, it was all spoken for by the soldier, i.e. the guard Jakovljevic. And then, in a completely amazing way, some interpretation came up, as I would call it, on a level, on RTS, as if it were a Muppet Show, with some figurines, it explains how it happened. So, I have no doubt, Mr. Delic, that you think what you're saying and that your information is like that, I'm talking about a bunch of things and paper and evidence and facts that are absolutely undeniable. Then why isn't an investigation opened up to the smallest details to determine the true truth, not to be silenced and forge what happened in the barracks on Topcider. You know for a fact that most of the people who were in the most immediate security of Ratko Mladic, that they were members of the Guard brigade, I'm not going to mention their names now. If we go further, I'll mention, they were all from the Guard Brigade. So, the Guard brigade, unfortunately, was the foothold of war criminals, and that's the thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7236	Here you are, MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7237	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Batic, it's interesting when you go out for this pay phone, you always tell some truth. Now that you've spoken here, you've said between five and ten percent of the true things. The Karash facility, obviously you don't know where it is. The Karash facility was intended for the greatest state leaders. During the war, the late President Milosevic was in it. Well, then, on the other hand, I'm wrong and you and the Department of Defense are right, that someone who was in The Hague was in that facility for a while. Everything else you've said, Mr. Batic, does not match the truth. And what hurts me like a man is why you abuse the pain of families who lost their sons in that unfortunate event. All the things that you've been saying about some of the procedural things that are related to your profession, that's all you have to ask these experts, experts, and everyone else, because, I just want to say that the military is completely clean in it. The defence minister, at the time, Mr Davinic, I hope one day, because of this facility, will sit on the defendant's bench. He allowed journalists to enter an object that was otherwise declared the greatest secret. When he did, and when he was shown what he was doing, the truth couldn't do it while I was an active general, because I said I'd never let him go there, an American spy, like the former defence minister, yet it's no place to be in an object that serves the greatest state leaders, no matter what options they come from. When he tried to replace some colonels at the scene, who said he never did and that he did not bring journalists into the facility, and when they asked the Chief of Staff for an explanation he allowed the minister to do so. After a month, the minister asked President Marovic to retroactively, meaning a month back, to write a permit to enter the facility along with journalists. Mr. Marovic did not want to do this, as he also realized that the minister had committed a serious crime. Why Davinic is not responding, why there are six criminal charges that stand and wait for one day when those of Serbia's interests first come to power in Serbia. The damage that Davinic had done to the military is measured at hundreds of millions of euros, and it is military property; a New Belgrade airport that gave way to Slovenians, 18 hectares, 20 hectares within the Military Academy, which also intended to alienate, but was prevented from leaving the post. So, six criminal charges await Mr Davinic, if he is still here in Serbia at the time, if he does not go to America.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7238	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Željko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to step up and criticise a statement by Mr Batic, who, in his heat of battle, in conflict with the SRS, in conflict, probably, and with Serbia, has uttered a complete untruth and very harmful fact in Serbia's interests. Mr. Batić, I spent 165 days on the battlefield and 30 days on treatment after the wound. Not one day, I did nothing in the name of the Serbian people, in the name of you or anyone else, but all in my own personal name. Anyone who committed war crimes, and we admit that there were war criminals on the Serbian side, but we claim that there were no more than one prominence, of the 400,000 people involved in the wars, are no more than 400 who committed war crimes. Every war crime they've committed has been committed solely in their own name. So, for what they have done, they must respond individually, or personally, to be held guilty. Mr Batic, please, and all the other MPs, never again transfer those crimes to the expense of the Serb people and say that these crimes were committed on behalf of the Serb people, because that is not true. I am not saying that members of the Serbian people did not commit crimes as did members of all other peoples, but indeed none of them did so on behalf of the Serb people. Don't put such a difficult mortgage on this Serbian people, who are not really responsible for it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7240	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7241	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I responded to the Rules of Procedure at which, practically, our MP, Mr. Batic, was exposed to insults in the lack of arguments that might correct what he said. We, Mr. Delic, can be from different parties, we can have different views on many issues, much broader than the party context, but since you were a general, I'm sure there's no harder situation for an officer who runs one unit than the one that happened to the officers and the top of our army on October 5th, 2004 in a circle of the Guard Brigade. Our soldiers in the army are killed in peace as if we were at war. We are now hearing stories of a crime that has not been committed on behalf of the Serb people. Well, it's not proven by being said after the crime -- we didn't know, but by the unique condemnation of the Serbian people. We don't do that. We're playing with the accidents of these families and many others that are not spoken of. Half Paracina's down. It's nobody's fault. Am I right, Mr. Delic? When a soldier goes into training and shoots for the first time with combat ammunition, then they say shell casings, one shell is missing, the whole unit is looking for casings. No casings, we're being searched, harassed. The whole warehouse went up, no one's responsible. What did that military prosecutor's office say that launched the investigation, you military investigative authority? That it's not real human material, that it's second-class soldiers in an elite military unit. That's not enough answer for us to say, yes, that army is what it used to be, and that army should be respected for having such sacrifices as we've had in the past. That army is a humiliation to its executive staff, to its ministry, to what she did. She's cleared it, and thousands of reservers are still protesting and strikein' today. I asked 10 days ago to meet the Defence and Security Committee, to come here now and say, they were deceived, so that the entire congregation would say: "People, don't destroy your lives, don't destroy your families, you're deceived, so that we may punish those who have deceived you." Ten days these people have been wandering around Serbia, left to themselves. A major was arrested yesterday. Well, one major didn't make that mess, did he? When will it be resolved, how will it be resolved? That's what this is about, Mr. Delic. Until we get the complete truth about the fate of these guards, we will have a lot of moral right to do what Mr Batic did, to fight for that truth. That fight is confusing because there are no elementary preconditions for it to be fair. We're asking the FBI to lead the investigation. They sent them materials on Cyrillic. Shall we invite Bush to be our president or Prime Minister? Gates is going to be our secretary of defense because the FBI has to lead the investigation here? What's the investigation, knowing what happened? Nothing honorable happened, in accordance with the law, because after that the army acted dishonestly and broke the law. That's what won't change anything in the future, regardless of all the emotions, all the positive aspects that are being followed by the military, the fact that 90% of the people today accept a military call, until we get an answer to those questions, that military will be an accomplice to one crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7242	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7243	Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic. What's this about? The discussion was about the bill and, of course, I knew it would happen, because last night I saw a little Croatian Parliament, I knew right away that Chad would make an incident in the morning, because they have chaos in the Croatian Parliament, you know, Mr Petrovic, not to tell you. They are called, accused, except they don't kill themselves yet in that Parliament because of this verdict, now all Serbs are guilty, etc. You know what it's like with Ustashas. Let them finish their own business. I knew Chad would answer, do what he's doing today. The whole point is next. Mr. Dulic, I'm not defending you, so we can get this straight. Not the president or the speaker of the National Assembly, in advance of knowing what the MP from this pay phone is going to say. This National Assembly is a safe house for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In this National Assembly, there is talk of all possible topics, and of ecology, and of agriculture, and of banking, crime and the situation in prisons, and in this sense is a safe house for everyone. Now that someone interprets as a safe house something to treat inequality, that's another thing. Then it moves with the system my attitude is, and my opinion is the highest position, the highest opinion, the new quality, the new system of values, according to this gentleman who always carries the travel bag with him, because he doesn't know when he's going to be arrested, has a dressing room in three days. Yeah, and then they start treating some personal frustrations here, it's spreading the subject, and now we're going to recruit. Batic says - crime scene The Guard Brigade. Mr. Baticu, that's much nicer said by your friend Carla del Ponte. It has a common name for all Serbs – Serbian forces. Serbian forces are to blame for everything. According to this indictment she writes, it's everyone who deals with politics and it's everyone who's living Serbs, and "Serbian forces" is a synonym for guilt. When I hear words like that here, of course I get chilly. The dignity of the congregation is protected among other things by respecting freedom of mind here. Let me remind you, Mr. Dulliche, as far as you were right, and I'm not defending you. We very often hear from this speaker some MPs who trample the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, represent the position on independent Kosovo and Metohija, do not respect any provision of the Constitution, when someone warns them that we should all adhere to the law and the Constitution, they say, but that is my opinion. But if Mr. Vukic comes out and says his opinion, well, right away, the duty team jumps, calls the president, calls this side, which you didn't punish, which you didn't... It's past your time of punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7244	Mr. Krasic, this is one of the few discussions in which I am not being targeted by yours. Thank you for that, but it's 3 and 49. Thank you. According to Business, MP Jadranko Vukovic, then Vladan Batic and Rajko Baralic reported. I'm really asking you to bring the end of the conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7245	I'd very briefly like to participate in this discussion, because I really want to clarify the Topcider case. I remind fellow MPs, those who were in the SCG community when this topic was current, I was talking about Topcider, I don't have here, unfortunately, this documentation that I'm going to bring next time, witnessed to me by then the president of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, Mr Shami, when I presented the facts I received from the Serbian and Army Minister Davinic left the hall. What are the facts? The fact is, the face of the City Greens who saw the alleged killers of these children in Topcider reported an event. The City Greens worker called for two witnesses. That face, Mr. Minister, lived, probably alive now, I have a name and all the data, in Sremcic, neighbor of Prvoslav Davinic. Police, military and civilian, are on their way to find the vehicle that the alleged murderers were on the scene with. Vehicle checked out at some junkyard, found plates, etc. The police are looking for the one who reported the event. That gentleman from City Greens ran off to Tuzlo, somewhere in Bosnia. So, he lives in Belgrade, fled to Tuzlo. They find his son at home. The son of his father says he's crazy, that he makes up, that he's a fool. Police are having talks, the gentleman who reported this crime is cutting grass for Mr. Davinic in Sremcic, cutting his fence, working at his home. So, Mr. Batic, I don't want to delude, but it's very dangerous for this pay phone to say - he was killed by Hague fugitives. I'm not going to accuse anyone, but I'm telling you, there would be a lot of evidence here if some commission were to be educated to shed light on this case and I'm pushing for some light. The collapse of the defense system and the military went off with Topcider, maybe someone on the outside answered that these kids would kill themselves if they didn't kill each other. So, neither, nor the other -- I say, but I would ask you, colleagues, that we don't go abroad here, because these children are also at the death of those children really shouldn't be profiting, I mean, that's a very ugly word. To brighten up, yes, but I'm telling you this, and Mr. Minister, direct an investigation into this direction regarding the one from Zelenil, take the police statements that I have, and you'll see that Mr. Davinic is hiding there. In which role, I don't know whether to cover up the truth or to cover up those who committed a crime if they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7246	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported, then Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been working very hard on this tragedy on Topcider, but in order not to take time, what I wanted to say, is that she's tied up, that crime is about war criminals, time will prove it. I will propose on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia and on behalf of the LDP parliamentary club to form a polling committee, that we see to the details who did or did not. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr Vasiljevic, God forbid I accused the Serbian people. I just said, what I'm about to say is that some of our countrymen committed crimes on our behalf. They were, individually, but referring to the coat of arms, to the 'God of Justice', on the flag, some were on the most responsible military and other functions, therefore, I agree that there is an individual responsibility, but they called for Serbia, history and tradition, they called for our name. As for Davinic, I invited Svetozar Marovic and suggested that an independent state commission be formed, sent a letter. When I saw so much illogicality, then he called me and said – thank you, I think it's a good idea and I'm in a dilemma, I see that some evil has happened, and that's how it started. But Davinic filed a criminal complaint against me against the district attorney, so I'm invited to an informative conversation because I'm undermining the country's defence power, because I'm violating the image of the military. Then I came to this prosecutor, who was all freaked out, because he was out of a military investigation before, and that's how it ended. Otherwise, as far as Davinic's concerned, it is the same defence minister who, one of the generals, who was not charged, but convicted in The Hague's worst crime tribunal, in Cvescara, assigned an apartment of 200 squares, two acres and several squares. Just one more detail, I'm gonna use this report to the Rules of Procedure so I don't answer again, please, for a little tolerance, Mr. President, just a minute. Mr. Petrovic, there was a controversy here yesterday about a 48-hour show, and before that, it was a controversy that an educated program could not be broadcast due to the transfer of the National Assembly. So, what's RTS and Tianic doing with the education program? Well, their educational program is 48 Hours. But I didn't want to tell you this, but I am asking you to review within the limits of your powers of the Justice Minister what happened with two criminal charges that I filed two years ago with Slobodan Radovanovic, then a special prosecutor, for organized crime, now acting as the Republic Prosecutor, against Aleksandr Tianic and others. First, for the purchase of a package of "Universals" films from some phantom of the "Digitrak" company in America, through some producer house "Media House" here in Serbia, five million dollars, but, like, RTS has no money and then "Universals" movies, and it's by-products from 1997 to 2002, it buys through those houses, and then it doesn't pay them back money, but it gives them minutes on TV. In those minutes, there's this gig called "48 Hours Wedding." So, what about criminal charges, why they weren't rejected so that I as a applicant would take over the prosecution or why they weren't processed, with material evidence, to see how much these, if they were paid at all, five million dollars worth of time that media house got from RTS as compensation for that money they gave to buy out the Universal movies, so you'll see that it's five or times ten, but you can keep quiet about it. That's why Djindjic's closest associates are being arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7248	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7249	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you, Mr. President, are not my target, and I see that I am sometimes yours, but it doesn't matter. That means I'm doing my job well. It's gonna be okay. No, God of justice, Mr. Batic, the Constitutional Court of Justice. I remind you, it was the institution that didn't work even when you were a minister, and neither was Mr. Petrovic now. So, justice, its highest domain is being realized in that institution, and that would be good for us to solve it once. But that's not why I answered. I can't mention anything about the terrible tragedy that caused a whole series of polemics here, and I just don't think the others should do it, because then it goes into a spiral that hurts many people in Serbia, and it can't help anyone, unfortunately. I volunteered because, now you'll hear, because you've just done everything you've done by accomplishing one project to derail the existence of an army. It's been done for about 20 years in Serbia and here, I publicly call on you to abolish the army, this is not supposed to exist. Say the army is professional, bring back these 25,000 people, as far as you said it was necessary to have an army of Serbia and to resolve this issue once and for all. That the most ready and able young people in Serbia don't invent jobs by peeling potatoes, which is not a big deal, but it's stupid, they can do something smarter. Otherwise, it is true, I must say, I apologize to all those who are directing recruits today into military units in Serbia, that from the lowest social mile, not to use any other word, the youngsters are leaving to serve the human deadline, and these others, well-informed and well-instructed, serve the so-called civilian army and thus bring these first to the position that, one day, if there is a need to use the military units, these will, of course, have to leave again. Because if they do not respond, it will be a crime, and those who have peeled the potatoes will not be able because they did not have military training. Citizens are not equal in front of the law and the Constitution in this country. Don't make a cartoon out of it, the military deserves to have better treatment in this country. Or immediately make a decision and say – the military is professional, there are people who will do it for some decent pay and it is absolutely something that fits your concept of government. I don't have that concept, because I know exactly how these things stand. Otherwise, the fact that five people who were the best students in Garmispartnerkirchen here are going to explain to us how it's supposed to work, it doesn't make any sense, they're just the ones who are saying – I understand. I understand what subordination is, their supreme command and their general staff is not in this country, and that's why they don't need cannon meat in this country, let them command those other taxpayers whose taxpayers pay for what they say, "I understand," those before whom they salute. I'm very precise, so stop this farce with the army. An army like no one in Serbia needs it, it is only a cost for those who serve it and the problem, and it serves nothing. Professionalize the army and say, "This is an army at the level of the fire brigade, this is what needs to work, and let's not deal with it this way anymore because no one in Serbia believes it is an army anymore." Mr. Baralic, your time is up. ) Judging by the parade you chose to afford a few days ago, you still believe that it is important to investigate the army, but beyond that, you know nothing or think nothing. They don't serve as officers, they serve for something else. Since that purpose is long gone, make a decision and allow Mr. Sutanovac to be a minister without portfolios, because this is not how his ministry serves anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7250	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bozidar Delic, then Nenad Prokic, and then minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7251	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovanovic is right when he says that every elder in the army is the hardest thing to do when situations like this happen. They don't send their parents into the army to get them out of the army in coffins. I've been in the army for a long time, I've had a few of these situations, but I've known dozens or hundreds of cases when it happened in some units. In that large former Yugoslavia, about 140 soldiers died annually in different situations, from suicides, accidents in exercises, to crimes of mutual murder. That wasn't a lot to talk about back then. Today these cases are far less. The desire of each elder is that they absolutely rule out, but that is almost impossible, because today the largest number of soldiers if they do not lose their lives while serving a military term commit suicide at home or die in a car accident during the weekend when they are at their parents' house. I, of course, support this idea of finally putting an end to the Topcider case, or the Karas case for parents, primarily because of their parents being not only from this pay phone but also from various televisions, they don't insult the wounds over and over again. I'd like to point out that facility to another situation. The facility was the only one in the army and certain technical protection measures, double camera protection and protective fences, electronic fences. Some of the cameras weren't working and it was reported, so at the time that accident happened, it couldn't be traced to the cameras. However, the fence at the time it happened did not react. If that were what Mr Batic says, then these people should have wings and fly over that fence. In the afternoon when the investigative judge made an insight into the military police, the fence responded three times. When military officers are looking for any clues to the fence, they've got exactly what time and how many minutes and how many seconds the fence's been responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7252	Time, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7253	I won't say anything else, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7254	I thank you, too. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nenad Prokic appeared, and then the word will be given to Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7255	Dear President, honourable MPs, I support Mr Baralic's proposal to establish a professional army and eliminate this one as it is. That event, a few days ago, ended with fireworks in the daytime, which is the first time in the history of fireworks that I've seen fireworks in the day. Mr. Delic, I must inform you of two things: that Tito has died and that the Berlin Wall has fallen. Just because you took off a five-pointer doesn't mean that you changed the matrix of thought and that you did anything, it's not enough just to take off a five-pointer to make something happen and make something really happen in the Army. You are referring to that same matrix when you say and boast about the fact that the general in peace terms does not let the minister into any object. You are calling for an officer's honor by believing and claiming that those soldiers killed themselves and how great that possibility is is so great and your officer's honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7256	Sure, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7257	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's unfortunate that anyone can still come out for this pay phone. For this tragic event, gentlemen, I have pleaded with my officer's honor and claim that there have never been any Hague indictees in this facility. As far as the case is concerned, I'm saying it's an accident, and it's still a matter of those who are expert. There were no eyewitnesses of the event itself. As far as the army is concerned, I certainly don't protect the Army and my officer's honor is something, sir, which you should never take in your mouth, because it takes so much honor to talk about me. I was, gentlemen, both in The Hague and there mentioned some crimes and tried to call me for it. When I showed a list of 300 criminal charges I'd filed as commander and against those I captured, arrested and against my members, they said, yes, you did, but they weren't prosecuted. When I showed the list of criminal sanctions imposed, then, gentlemen, they moved on to another topic. This state of Serbia, many times in different situations, defends itself through me, because, in any case, when they say we've taken measures, list dozens of cases where I, as one of the commanders, have just done my job. I agree, perhaps, only in something, that this army, as it is today, Parachin and some other cases that are happening, are part of the responsibility of the military organization. Paracin was never allowed to happen, because only in war was it allowed for ammunition to be kept in the open space for a certain period of time. It must not be done for years, especially since there were conditions and the General Staff knew it and could have kept that ammunition in a completely safe place. If someone from the General Staff or the Ministry would try to call me now, I'll tell them, since I've been dealing with that question, where are those completely protected facilities? Emergency events in the military, as it is today, are possible, but, gentlemen, you are responsible for why this army is today as it is. In it, training has been reduced to the lowest possible level in the last 30 years. A huge number of elders left the army. Some, who, as you say, have adventured before time, are the ones who support this kind of reform, and I say destroying the army. That's why an army like this can be dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7258	Time, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7259	That's why I'm saying that you should end up with this agony of the army or you should put it back into the frames that she used to be. The gentleman should know that I have never been burdened by a five-pointer, that many decent men have worn the five-pointer and that they have no problem wearing the signs of Serbia today. We've proved it in every place, and after all, so have I. I'd ask that gentleman who got lost, where he was at that time. I was also in Croatia, I was in Bosnia, I was in Kosovo...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7260	Mr. Delichu, thank you very much. Here you are, the word has a minister of justice, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly natural for a bill that has such a theme to cause a big and even shorter debate than I thought it would be. There's one thing that's undeniable in these few hours about how much a search on this agenda has been conducted. It is certainly indisputable that it is necessary to establish the truth in matters where there is any crime, especially when it comes to crimes with great social danger, only in one place. It's a court of law. It's not since the world and the century, ever since people started organising their lives, organising their communities, there's no more perfect mechanism or place that's more called upon to determine that truth than it is a court. Social danger is the Institute of Criminal Law. There are crimes in different forms, there are a number of different kinds of crimes, but there are crimes that are more serious and dangerous for every society, even for ours, than for others. Organized crime, on the one hand, and crimes against humanity on the other hand, ato war crimes, are crimes that have the highest degree of social danger. In these few hours of debate in this House, a large number of individual issues have been opened. Individual questions that didn't get their answer in court. It is a clear sign that Serbia needs a more effective judiciary than we have today. As the goal of the ministry headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have as one of the most important goals for the judiciary in Serbia to be more effective than it is today. When these things don't get an answer in court, they're the natural object of controversy in public, the subject of controversy in this House. Then there is the need to make survey committees and to establish different out-of-court and paralegal mechanisms something that might look like a definitely factual state and some kind of truth. It is necessary, in my deep belief, that this Parliament should vote on the bill that we discussed today and yesterday, therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings, in order to allow our judiciary to be more effective in these proceedings than it is in order to come to an uncontested conclusion in this debate, that it is necessary to get an answer in court to all these questions which, on the basis of suspicions and reasonable suspicions of these crimes, are opening up. We had a large number of arguments and a large number of topics. What I must say and share with you these conclusions is that there are two institutions dealing with determining responsibility for war crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1 January 1991. One institution is the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes. The court, as is widely known, was established by a UN Security Council decision. Of course, there has been a long controversy over whether, in accordance with the Charter, the court and the Statute of that court were to bring the General Assembly of the Security Council. What is a fact, that court was established by the decision of the most powerful body of the United Nations, that is the Security Council, and that no great force that has the right to prevent any decision being taken in that body, neither the United States, nor the United Kingdom, nor France, nor the Russian Federation, nor China, was vetoed when a decision was made on the formation of the Hague court. Then our country has a choice: shall we be part of the United Nations system or not? If we're part of that system, we need to respect the rules and decisions of that system. Is the world perfect? Well, it's a long way from being perfect. Are we perfect? We're a long way from being perfect, but we have a duty to fight to be the best, as far as possible. The Security Council of the United Nations is a place where this country is confident that it will allow us to resolve the need for the issue that is important for this country at the moment, which is to preserve Serbia's territory and sovereignty. We trust that the Security Council is the place where that decision must be made. When so, it is hardly possible to disrespect any other Security Council decisions, including the decision to form an International Criminal Court in The Hague. Several questions have been opened here, which I think must be answered during this debate, whether it is a shame or immoral that the justice system in Serbia, therefore, the prosecutions and courts respect the Statute of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in particular with regard to crimes established by the Rules of Procedure and the execution of evidence in this court. This is about a process where we need to have a clear idea of what is the interest of Serbian citizens and what is the interest of the Serbian state and what is not. Is it the interest of the Serbian state to take as many criminal cases as possible in The Hague? I don't have any dilemma here. It's an interest. The interest is that Serbia is judging in the largest, it would be remarkable in all cases that have been processed in The Hague. Is it possible for Serbia to take over all these cases, unless we have a legal mechanism, that in the state in which these cases are transferred to the Serbian judiciary? It's not possible. When the case is taken over by the prosecution and the court in The Hague, does the law of Serbia cease to apply? That's not true. This law makes it very clear in its Article 14. I'm not talking about amendments and additions to the law, I'm talking about the basic text of the law. Article 14(3) says very clearly: "In a criminal procedure that, after the course of the case, is being conducted in the Republic of Serbia, domestic law will apply." In the following position at the very end, it says: "The existence or absence of facts that are proved in these evidence is valued by the court in accordance with Article 18. The Code of Criminal Procedure," brought by this assembly. So when the question arises whether it is possible for the Statute and the International Court of Justice in The Hague to be a source of justice, my answer is that the source of the right passed by this assembly that introduces these rules into our legal system. It's in accordance with our Constitution. For what? Because it's our interest, because it's an interest for the courts in Serbia to judge, if possible, all the proceedings that have been prosecuted in The Hague. Those who are in The Hague court will be tried by those who are competent to be tried in Serbia. I think that's the thing that needs to get an answer at the end of this debate today. The other institution that judges war crimes is the system of justice or the system of our country's institutions. It is the Council for War Crimes, the Council of the District Court in Belgrade for War Crimes and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I am going back to the beginning and to the first question – is it completely indisputable that we, as citizens, as a society and as a state, have the desire and the will to shed light on any case in which there is doubt, in which there is a reasonable doubt that someone committed a war crime. I personally have no dilemma, and I am convinced that there are none of the 250 MPs of the National Assembly who have a dilemma about this issue. Of course, it is necessary that any such case be lit up and get an epilogue in court. In order for that to happen, the prosecution and the court must have instruments to determine the truth in these crimes that have the greatest social danger. Unfortunately, there are one significant number of cases where persons, not to use legal terminology, where people help those against whom there are fundamental suspicions and reasonable suspicions that they have committed crimes of war crimes, by either hiding them or otherwise trying to prevent these trials from being conducted. That is why it is necessary for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and especially the Council for War Crimes to receive an instrument, which is this law, so that all together, as citizens of Serbia and as a society, we can get an answer whether they are against whom there is doubt and guilt or are innocent. It's not possible, once again, in a different way than in a court procedure. A large number of questions have been opened and I will telegraphly try to answer all these questions or at least most of them. So, in 2003, by adopting the basic text of this law, by adopting the Law on Criminal Procedure in the Crimes of Organized Crime, new procedural institutes have been created that did not exist in Serbia until this time, including the Institute of Witnesses of Associates, the Institute of Undercovered Investigators. None of that our right and our legal tradition knew. It was essential that those who applied these procedures, and these are both prosecutors and judges and police officers, get acquainted with these procedures in countries where these institutes exist. One of these countries is the United States, one of those countries is Italy, it was not possible to teach people differently than to go to those countries, to deal with them and spend some time there and learn something. I think a significant number of prosecutors and judges can now become teachers in those countries where these institutes are now being introduced. A lot of times or more, the issue of quality of work of the D.A.'s War Crimes Office is open. This is the place. The war crimes prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it is perfectly legitimate to debate these matters here. I'll say what my confidence is and what my knowledge is. I think the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes is doing a hell of a job. Today, 81 persons have been indicted against 40 people by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. So, a large number of people have been prosecuted by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office doing one big job. Of course it is possible to lead the controversy of the prosecutor, Mr. Vukcevic, and of every deputy prosecutor, it is the right of this parliament. I think that Mr. Vukcevic has done his job very well so far and has significantly helped us as a country and that Serbia as a state, and all of us together as citizens, are getting one very significant legitimacy of the country that is able to deal with criminal persecution in the most serious crimes, and the crimes of war crimes are the most serious crimes. At this point in this regard, Serbia is not lagging behind, and it is an honor for this country, for no country in the region, we are a civilized country capable of judging in such difficult cases. I have an obligation on another person, which here was the subject of controversy, which is the spokesman of this prosecution, Mr. Vekaric, and only a few facts have been delivered to me since this morning. This issue is open and has no apartment at Limes, lives on block 38, Mr. Vekaric doesn't have a place, and criminal charges against his father were dropped very quickly after it was filed, I think, before 5 October 2000. So it's just a few things that are open here among a number of questions. The question has been asked if Ratko Mladic is guilty. Neither the court in The Hague nor the prosecution in The Hague nor the war crimes prosecutor's office, nor the Greater war crimes court here in Belgrade said Ratko Mladic was guilty. There is a suspicion against Ratko Mladic and he has been processed in The Hague. There is a obligation for the Serbian state to do everything possible to find it in The Hague, because it is the interest of this country to determine whether these doubts are correct or not and whether Ratko Mladic is responsible or not, because there is no other way and way to make these facts light up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very end I invite you once again to pass this law. I urge you to do what I believe all of you in this assembly want to do as one step forward, which is that we have a stronger state than it is now. A stronger state will be if it is more efficient and able to protect citizens' rights. Serbia has the strength to be a good and civilized state and I believe in Serbia, which will be able to provide its citizens with a standard of living, standard of conduct, a standard of efficiency such as the most developed European and world states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7262	You have no right to a replica, but you have the right to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have three minutes, but I'm really asking you to close this point, because then we're back in the debate, and I think we've had enough time to discuss this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7263	The Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor Mr Petrovic, nor any other here, has the right to give a lecture to the MPs here and has no right to express his political views. Mr Minister, you have, as your colleagues normally do, tried to try on the MPs who participated in the debate, which, when it comes to this topic, are the MPs of the SRS, to give a lecture and to end up as you believe in Serbia. We believe and have always believed in Serbia, Mr Petrovic, but we don't trust you and your government and we don't trust Boris Tadic, we don't trust Vojislav Kostunica and that's something we talk about every day. Mr. Minister, you're here as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as a minister of justice I suppose you know, at least you knew when you were an MP and when there was a minister who you often had a lot to say and of course I didn't and I have nothing against it, you were as right as we have and then and now we have our views. You, as minister, are obliged to provide conditions for the functioning of the judicial authorities, to secure buildings, to secure the budget you promised, and not provide, to regulate and not provide a special budget, which you promised, but of course it's not a topic. The theme is that you are not allowed from this pay phone to address the MPs as the spokesman of some Bruno Vekaric or some Vukčević, especially if you do not answer the questions whether Bruno Vekaric has an apartment, a business space, etc. Where did you get that knowledge and what kind of relationship you're in as a minister with the D.A.'s spokesman? I have addressed the MPs and the public of Serbia as well as Bruno Vekaric, as he or she speaks and does not ask him, as he is mostly reserved for him, or television with national frequencies, so let him answer that question. If you claim what you just said, then, Mr Petrovic, you are a liar as well as Bruno Vekaric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7264	Here you go, Mr. Krasic. I had no doubt you'd answer, but we're really closing the search.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7265	Mr. Dulic, you are absolutely the safest in the proper application of the Rules of Procedure when I answer and when you give me your word. It's standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7266	Which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7267	Article 136. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petrovic, you are here on behalf of the Government as a motionary, I have listened to your explanation and you have a completely different opinion from the SRS and I respect it, it is your right, but I think you must find an answer to the following concerns that stem from this bill. It's only about the bill, and there's no difference in opinion, so let's get this straight at the beginning. Look, Mr. Petrovich, what's the matter? You have called in Article 2 of this Amendment and Supplement Law in the last position of the new Article 13a for an article. 232 and 233. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Undisputed. You have to tell me what code. We have two codes, we have two valid ones. Just, please, make a difference: it takes effect and applies. We've got two men who've come into effect and one still doesn't apply, due to the prosecutor's inability to take over the investigation. Isn't that right, Mr. Petrovich? We have the Code of Criminal Procedure published in the "Official Messenger" 46/06, and its application for 2008 was postponed in 49/07. If we go under this Law, members 232 and 233 speak of property claims damaged in criminal proceedings. If we stick to that Jojic Code of Criminals, wait. Mr Petrovic, type on the Internet the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia and ask for the Code of Criminal Procedure, you will receive a member of 232, 233, Mr Petrovic, what I have received – property requirements. If we talk about Jojic's Law, it was the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it was later changed, so Serbia took over from the SRJ, etc. It's got an ankle in it. 222nd and 223rd are about listening and measuring, but you have to put it clearly here. (President:Time. It's very important, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7268	You'll have a chance to discuss it when we discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7269	He'll take another time, I can't explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7270	Here, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7271	I have a problem bigger than you have. So you have to figure it out in some way. Another thing, Mr. Dolliche, this is for you. Think about it when you vote on this bill. If we put a crime in from Article 333. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, that's this help, then because of that discussion that went by those who were going to make a mess this morning, I'm just drawing attention to the following: Mladic was indicted by The Hague, I think at the end of August 1995. In 1995, Mr Petrovic was indicted against Karadzic and Mladic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7272	Mr. Krasic, another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7273	It'll be very important to you, just to understand what's going on. Holbrooke said it was a good thing we invented The Hague tribunal. At our request, the prosecution raised them, so they can't participate in the Dayton talks. Helping the unsub could have been 1995, she could have been in 1996, she could have been in 1997. Why are you looking for her in 2007? Why are you doing something with a law that's impossible to apply?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7274	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is Mr. Secretary, before the search is concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Krasic has opened a very important issue here, as far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, and we have a really complex legal situation. Indeed, the Law has entered into force, but we delayed its application, just as you said, until 31 December 2008. So, today in Serbia, a Criminal Code is applied which, as you yourself said, has its basis on the 2001 Criminal Procedure Act, which is now the Code of Criminal Procedure. The members of 232 and 233 are members who regulate the application of the measures implemented by the competent national authorities and this is not disputed and therefore this is the case in this proposal and written. So, as far as this second question is concerned, which is a member of 333 we've been dealing with for two days, we're not introducing a new crime. There was a crime and there is now. Therefore, only a new procedure is laid down when there is a reasonable doubt and a fundamental suspicion that a crime in Article 333 has been committed. The Code of Criminal Serbia, which relates to members from 370 to 386. These are crimes from the head of crimes against humanity. When there is a suspicion that someone is helping those suspected of committing these crimes, a procedure will be applied that strengthens the state, because I deeply believe that this is a state interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7276	I'm concluding a principled search on this agenda point. I thank all those who participated in the debate. We're going to the next item on the agenda. We are moving to a joint single search of the 10-14th agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of United Nations on Combating Desertification in the Lands of Heavy Drought and/or Disertification, in particular in AFRICA, ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LIFE FLORE AND FOUNT OF THE BOX AND OF THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE PROTECTION OF CARPATS, CONSERVATION OF THE EUROPEAN DIVILITY AND OF THE FUTURES AND OF THE FUTURES AND CONSERTAINING OF THE MIGRATORY SPECIES OF SPIRITS The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 140(2) and Article 149a(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on these points of the agenda. I give my word to the promoter's representative, Dr. Sashi Dragin, Minister of Environmental Protection. I inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group Dr Zoran Masic, DSS - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Milica Vojic-Markovic and SPS Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7277	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are proposals for a law on the validation of five conventions in the field of environmental protection. Let me explain to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the draft laws on: the approval of the United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought or desertification, the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Impact in the Cross-border context, the Council of Europe Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats, the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals and the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. The United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with severe drought or desertification is the first international legal instrument to regulate the issue of desertification and the consequences of drought as problems of global proportions and in the context of environmental protection and sustainable development. The aim of the Convention is to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought in countries affected by severe drought or desertification, acting at all levels that are in line with international co-operation and partnership agreements, in order to achieve sustainable development in affected areas. It should be mentioned that, above all, the irresponsible conduct of man 80% of the land in Serbia suffered some form of degradation, and 30% of our territory was directly affected by desertification. The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment, in the cross-border context of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, obliges foreign Contracting Parties to carry out the process of assessing the impact of the proposed activities or projects that can cause significant cross-border adverse effects, in a way that enables the participation of the public of another country that may have consequences on its territory. The environmental impact assessment is a process of identifying, assessing and publishing possible impacts on the environment of the proposed project, as well as certain prevention, reduction and elimination measures. Access is interdisciplinary and covers a wide area, air impact, soil, water, flora, fauna, geology, population, buildings, infrastructure. The project permit, or activity, cannot be issued before a harmful environmental impact is assessed. It is mandatory to act when there is a suspicion that a particular project or activity could significantly affect the environment, especially because of the nature of the project, its dimension or location. Confirmation of this Convention would provide for conditions that the public of the Republic of Serbia can also participate in the decision-making process for the implementation of a specific project in neighbouring countries, in cases where these projects can have a harmful impact on Serbia's territory. It is necessary to point out that the provision of this Convention will not affect our right to implement national laws, regulations, administrative provisions or legal practices that protect information, whose disclosure would be harmful to industrial and commercial secrecy or national security. The Council of Europe Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats was adopted in Bern on 19 September 1979 and entered into force on 1 June 1982. Wild flora and fauna is a natural heritage of essential importance and value to be preserved and handed over to future generations, and as we all know, the numbers of many species of wild flora and fauna are reduced, while some are threatened by extinction. The countries signatories of this Convention have assessed the significant adoption of this Convention, calling on governments to consider, in their national objectives and programmes, the preservation of wild flora and fauna and the establishment of international co-operation, in particular in order to protect migratory species. The aim of this Convention is to preserve wild flora and fauna and their natural habitats, and in particular to ensure the protection of those species and habitats whose preservation and protection requires the co-operation of several countries. The emphasis shall be placed on endangered, target species, including endangered and targeted migratory species. Otherwise, it may be interesting to mention that all countries in the region have confirmed this convention, including a large number of members of the Council of Europe. The adoption of a law confirming this Convention provides an economic and political condition where the Republic of Serbia, as a Contracting Party, receives full support in the direction of protecting and preserving wild flora and fauna and their habitats. Inclusion in international co-operation, improving co-operation among countries to preserve the most significant and most endangered species of wild flora and fauna and their natural habitats, all of which would contribute to the overall efforts to protect biodiversity in the Republic of Serbia. The Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlife was adopted in Bon on 23 June 1979 and entered into force in 1983. The number of members of the Convention by April 2007 is 102, including the EU. By adopting this Convention, the signatories made a commitment to preserve and restore the habitats of migratory species, prevent or reduce to a minimum activities that seriously hinder or prevent species migration, prevent the capture of migratory species and the functioning of factors that threaten them and ensure controlled entry, i.e. the elimination of new species. Our country is one of the so-called. the country of the arena, that is, the country whose territories cross the migration pathways of many species of wild animals, are also part of the total biodiversity of our country. The adoption of a law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlifes will ensure economic and political conditions for the Republic of Serbia as a Contracting Party to receive full support in achieving sub-regional co-operation of countries such as the so-called Republic of Serbia as a Contracting Party. the state of the arena on the protection and conservation of migratory species. The Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, as well as the Carpathian Convention, is an international contract document of the framework type, and refers to joint co-operation of the Karpathian countries. Geographical home mountains, homolime mountains, Deli Jovan, Miroc and Gerdapian gorge represent the Serbian part of the Carpathian crowd. The convention was signed by eight countries in the Karpathian region, including Serbia. Six countries confirmed the Convention in Kiev on 22 May 2003: Hungary, Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Romania. We haven't yet. Given that the Carpathian mountain system consists of seven countries, international relations and co-operation of all these countries in the protection of the environment and sustainable development of Karpat must be highlighted and respected. The objectives of the protection and conservation of sustainable management of Karpat's resources cannot depend on and be realised by only one country, but must be protected and sustainable development by all the countries of the Karpat Mountain Chain. This speaks of the necessity of cross-border co-operation and joint efforts aimed at achieving objectives and activities towards the protection of sustainable development of Karpat. Confirmation of the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development opens the possibility for Serbia to contribute to the preservation of the total biodiversity of flora and fauna and the habitat of the Karpat region as one of Europe's richest regions. Dear MPs and MPs, given the fact that the environment knows no borders, as well as the fact that our country has committed itself to implementing the principles of sustainable development at the UN Conference on the Environment and Development since 1992, it is clear that there is an unequivocal need to achieve a higher standard of environmental protection in our country. By adopting these conventions, we are taking a major step forward in the fight to provide our and future generations with a healthier environment, also confirming the will to meet our international obligations as a country. Finally, honourable MPs and MPs, allow me to invite you to accept the validation of these five conventions and thus contribute fully to the accession of Serbia's environment to Europe, which is a natural and integral part. You love Serbia and don't pollute it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7278	I thank Minister Sasha Dragina. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Dr Zoran Mašić, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to, at the very beginning, look back at this set of laws, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, through the proposals of these laws and the time when we are discussing them, to point to a complete irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the following reasons. When we received these proposals of the law, i.e. The ratifications of these conventions have also been proposed that adoption be carried out by an urgent procedure with reasons, and this is written for all these draft laws, i.e. The ratification of these conventions, so that the urgency process can result in adverse consequences for achieving the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process and the achievement of international sub-regional co-operation. Also, the reason for the emergency procedure is to provide political and economic conditions for the Republic of Serbia as a Contracting Party to receive full support from the Sixth Ministerial Conference – the environment for Europe, the economic committee for Europe, which is being held just in the coming days, in Belgrade from October 10th to 12th, and adoption by an emergency procedure would create and achieve the direction of obtaining funding from international investment projects organisations, for the construction of new and reconstruction of existing facilities in our country, which would ultimately contribute to the overall efforts of environmental protection in the Republic. If such an explanation is given to us MPs, thus informing the public, then the government together with the National Assembly president should make an effort to include these conventions in the agenda of some previous sessions, to do exactly this ratification or validation of these conventions, and to have that reference as a country at this significant international meeting, which will take place in the coming days, and that was precisely my reason and motivation to say that the Government is inconclusive to itself and to the legal acts, in the end, towards the international community, because with all the efforts made by the Presidency of this assembly, the vote of this by that date is impossible and inconclusive. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, from the explanations presented by the minister, we can see that today we need to discuss essentially five draft laws on the validation of international conventions which are either of a global nature, refer to the area of all countries, or have a European character, in the area of Europe. I will try in the time available to present a global review of these conventions before the SRS parliamentary group. First of all, I would start with the proposal for a law confirming UN conventions in the fight against desertification in countries with severe drought or desertification, especially in Africa, as such a title bears this Convention. The desertification is essentially a process of degradation of land in arid, semi-arid and dry, dry areas, due to different factors and, above all, to changes in climate and various human activities, which are among the most significant, above all, deforestation and industrialization. The land surface of the land can be divided into six main areas of vegetation, which are deserts, coastal forests, temperate forests, forests, forests, grassy plains and tundras and polar areas. Each zone has its own special features that determine climate, topography and latitude. Plant and animal species are adapted to the conditions of each area. The deserts are areas where the level of water evaporation exceeds the level of rainfall and occur in a wide range of geographical widths ranging from 15 to 35 degrees, on both sides of the equator. In fact, one quarter of the earth’s land surface is classified as deserts or semi-region. However, due to human negligence and as a consequence, above all, global warming, means too many emissions of harmful gases, which create, precisely, this phenomenon of glass gardens and global warming, essentially and primarily, land desertification in the world. It moves at a high speed, about 100,000 square miles [11.7 million sq km] a year deserts the countries, so today it is potentially already at risk about 51.7 million square kilometers, which objectively threatens to turn about 33% of the earth's surface into deserts. I already said at the beginning that about 25% is currently in that state. As a result of these changes, about 250,000 million people on earth have been directly threatened, and indirectly about a billion people, around 110 countries in the world. The land is already at risk of desertification and degradation, and we certainly count our country as well. Two types of land degradation processes are present in the Republic of Serbia, and this degradation is due to the shift, i.e. erosion, wind and water and degradation within the soil profile, where chemical, biological and physical properties of the land are getting worse. Our land, i.e. The land in our country was particularly exposed to a specific type of land degradation that occurred at the time of NATO bombing, in the form of mechanical damage from these massive rockets that were dumped, and then, pollution by poor uranium and land pollution by oil and oil derivatives. We know that the massively bombed our two largest and only, essentially, refineries and tanks, that a large amount of oil and oil derivatives poured out and went directly into the land, which certainly affected land degradation in those areas. In addressing environmental problems, all countries face the need to eliminate inherited pollution and, at the same time, act preventively and control the sources of new pollution. The reduction of adverse environmental impacts, promotion and introduction of new technologies, controlled construction and activities planned in space is a central issue in the environment policy of many countries. In the cross-border context, the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment obliges foreign Contracting Parties to take all legal, administrative and other measures resulting from the Convention individually or jointly, which may prevent cross-border environmental impacts. In our case, the Environmental Protection Act establishes the obligation of investors to analyse and quantify the impact of action on the environment, to plan and implement measures that prevent the threat of the environment or to implement measures of recycling and recovery. The law states that environmental impact assessment is mandatory, designed for projects planned and implemented in space, and can lead to environmental pollution or pose a risk to the environment and human health. The impact assessment is developed for projects from industry, mining, energy, transport, tourism, agriculture, forestry, water industry and municipal activities, as well as for all projects planned for natural good special values in the protected environment and unnecessary cultural goods. The impact assessment shall be an integral part of the technical documentation and shall be developed in the process of bringing space to the purpose and obtaining a building permit. The proposer of this law, as well as others, also believes that by joining the law, it will. By ratifying this Convention, create preconditions for obtaining funding from international investment projects organisations for the construction of new and reconstruction and existing facilities, because international financial institutions, such as the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, credit for investment projects, condition and make an environmental impact assessment. This could be accepted as, let me say, one opinion that is possible, however, would be believed only when these very international institutions pay for the removal of ammunition from the impoverished uranium in our country, and it is known that there are still certain localities, then the removal of cluster bombs. We are only these days from, precisely, these NATO countries are getting information that has polluted all the spaces with these cluster bombs that are a potential danger to this particular fauna, so the animal world that moves through these spaces is certainly for people. Finally, these international institutions should give us funds and remove a large amount of further unexploded missiles. If they do so primarily and help to protect our environment then we can trust them to give for some new investments and projects, which will be precisely to improve and protect the environment. According to the latest data, around 5,450 different species are now at risk in the world. The most endangered species are in Indonesia, China and Brazil. Of the total number of endangered species around the world, 12% of bird waste, 21% of amphibians, 24% of mammals, 25% of reptiles and 30% of fish. The Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats should ensure that endangered species and their centres are preserved and achieved through the co-operation of several countries. The Republic of Serbia, according to the reasons for the bill, says that around 600 different species of plants are potentially endangered and about 500 different species of animals, which are mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians and fish. Convention i.e. Signatories should essentially prohibit their laws on purpose, and in order to protect, read, collect, cut or tear from the roots, capture or sell species of wild flora. Also, or thereafter, all forms of deliberate capture and holding and intentional killing, intentional damage or destruction of a place of reproduction or rest, deliberate harassment, especially during the animal reproduction period, raising of young people, hybernation during the winter period, deliberate destruction or taking eggs and preventing unauthorized exchange or trade. The conservation of wild flora and fauna has an unplanned cutting of forests and forest fires. This year we are witnessing large forest fires on a number of our mountains or here in the Deliblat Cave, which also represents a significant reserve and flora and fauna, where such phenomena for a short period of time can destroy both significant areas and surfaces of plant flora as well as animal fauna, which in the coming years or for a long series of years cannot be revitalised and recovered, and perhaps some habitats will be completely destroyed. Then, the preservation of flora and fauna certainly has a significant impact on the drying out of canals and bars, or on the occurrence of sudden floods that we also occasionally have in our spaces. Furthermore, what is particularly unfavourable, unplanned, unauthorized game hunting and birds and unplanned fish fishing. Finally, the important factor in the impact on flora and fauna is pollution of habitats with heavy metals and especially pesticides, i.e. Herbicides and insecticides. Many wild animal species survive unfavourable conditions in certain areas cross major distances in search of food, water and other favourable living conditions, or conditions for breeding and raising young people. They go on a journey over different periods of years in certain cycles and often identical migration pathways crossing the borders of many countries, including continents. At that time, they are most endangered and exposed to many dangers. With that in mind, it is clear that migrant species are a common international natural resource and that the countries through which they cross over are responsible for them. This responsibility has also been institutionalised through the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals, or so on. The Bonus Convention, which represents a framework for international co-operation to protect the sustainable use of these biological resources and environmental balances in the environment. The migration routes of many wild animals protected by this convention lead across our country, which is why other countries are interested in working together to preserve them. Our areas in potentially endangered species include, above all, birds that represent, some of them, and hunting game, which nest in the northern regions of Eurasia and they appear in the overflight or winter, and are often subject to very uncontrollable hunting. There is essentially the greatest impact here on these animal species, and I hope that my colleagues will now elaborate more widely on certain extreme situations, which we, as citizens, have learned through the media, and certain irresponsibility of hunting land, inspections, customs, etc. In the end, I still want to say that the last years of the migratory species of wild animals, especially birds, have great epidemiological and epizootic significance in the spread of infectious animal diseases, specifically birds, but also humans, I mean avian influenza, or so on. A bird flu, an infection that's registered in our premises. It's just registered to these migratory birds, swans, even domestic livestock. So, in the end, I want to say through this convention and through other conventions that we should adopt, we will certainly achieve additional protection of our flora and fauna and prevent the degradation of our land. In any case, every serious state, we claim to be, should have such legal acts and documents that will directly apply or from them to produce other legal or sublegal acts. In any case, there is a need to adopt such documents, and we will only as a parliamentary group seek to point to certain non-compliance with existing laws and certain non-compliance with state institutions in terms of environmental protection, flora and fauna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7280	We thank Dr Zoran Mašić, the authorised representative of the SRS. National MP Gordana Comic, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7281	Ladies and gentlemen, the topics of today's debate are already listed conventions in the field of environmental protection. The public works, much more than we do sitting here, I want to start by saying the difference between the conventions, agreements and the agreements that we bring, adopt or ratify in this assembly and the laws, regulations and other acts that we autonomously, as the most legislative body we bring. Agreements and conventions, agreements, international agreements are at one of the levels where a decision is made in the international community, a regional, a European fine by regional or a United Nations and a country that is a member of such organisations. Then, these international agreements bring into their national parliaments seeking support from their MPs for what the executive authorities believe to be a good deal or a good agreement or a good set of international rules. It would be a valid remark, and what will then be the work of our MPs, because ratifications go through the Assembly, through sessions, are not made autonomously by our strategies, by our decisions in the Assembly and at the sessions of our Assembly. Our proposal is to view this as the advantage of these several conventions because the content of what the conventions offer for discussion is that we, us 250 MPs, discuss the future when it comes to environmental protection. What conventions are these, and my fellow MP Masic and minister have detailed the conventions before him. Used to people like simpler language, I will translate them into that, the first convention we want to agree on the future of infertile land in Serbia, to know how much there is, how to be less and how to ensure in collaboration with others that there is as much fertile land in Serbia as possible. Secondly, about what kind of environment we are in if we are living in the middle of Wednesday, some state border, some other country, how to ensure that the environment doesn't feel difficult because it's cut off by a state administrative border, but that on both sides of that state border, people in both countries benefit from their parliaments, because they will make sure that the area around that state border is a good place to live no matter how treated that border. The next two talks about the preservation of plants and animals, therefore, how to make sure that what we have left for now is alive from the animal world or alive and healthy from the plant world, to preserve it to promote it and to be more in the future. The next is the species that move around the planet, they don't know about the borders, and the only thing they're afraid of is the other species of predators that eat them, and we human species, the largest predator on the planet Earth. How to preserve our space so that these species that are moving to Serbia have their safe habitat, flight stop or temporary stay on Serbia's territory and ultimately, Karpati, as pools and regions of several states from Serbia via Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland and one major resource for the future. The best possible argument, for me personally, why we're even talking about these conventions, why we want to open up a general debate, what we're going to do as MPs, what those we control in the government are going to do to make it come true from the convention, is in a famous letter that people who were involved in environmental protection, they know, it's an argument in a letter from the Indian head of Seattle in 1854. I'm going to quote you one piece, because I can't better explain why we should talk about the future, about the obligations of all of us when it comes to protecting the environment. He said, "What is a man without animals, when and if all the animals go away a man will die of great loneliness of the spirit. No matter what happens, it happens to animals, it'll happen to a man soon because all things are connected. We must teach our children that the ground beneath their feet is the ashes of their grandfathers, so that they would respect their country. Let's tell our children that the country is related to us, that the ground we're trampling on is our closest kin. We teach our children that the land is our mother, whatever the land we live in will befall the sons and daughters of the earth. If a man spits on the ground, he spits on himself. That's what we know, the land belongs to a man, and the man belongs to the earth. And all things are related as blood that unites families and all things are linked because of the earth's strength, both sons and daughters of the earth will be found. A man doesn't tissue the tissue of life, he's just a waist in it and whatever he does in that weave, he does to himself. ''All the scientific books that I had the opportunity to touch, when it comes to protecting the environment, are not so clear, so warning and thus binding, give an argument as to why the environment and dialogue on the future of the environment in which we live should be dealt. That's why I find the environment as a subject insensitive to ideological, party and political differences. We can differ politically in scenarios, in mechanisms of what we, as a policy, would do and propose to apply the conventions we are talking about today, and that can be different, but that is also a topic for dialogue. The goal ahead of us is the same – what the country in which we now live will look like, what it will look like in 2011, 2015, 2020. So these are not conventions that will only go through the Assembly, so this is our chance to talk in the most serious way about what we owe the time to come. A lot more than we owe time behind us. Our ignorance today of what Serbia will look like in five, 10 or 15 years, that our ignorance is the kidnapper of the future, and the ransom for that kidnapping we do not pay today, will be paid by generations who come after us. Very often, too often, for my affection, for taking care of the future and investing in the future, I hear the famous folding of hands – well, not now, there are more important things, whatever, let go. There are no more important things than agreeing together what a healthy environment, an improved environment in Serbia in five, 10, 15, 20 or 50 years from today. The preservation and promotion and the achievement of consensus on preserving and improving the environment is prevention, so I want to offer a consensus on prevention, when it comes to the environment around us, because it's both the most reasonable and the cheapest and most efficient way to get the environment in which we now live, which we now exhaust, which we now use, which we now destroy, to leave to those who come after us, the least of them, if we can't, we won't or we won't get out that we don't have the money to leave those who come after us better than we have found or destroyed it. Why do I think the Assembly is the only real resource for this kind of debate? I'm going to do a short crackdown because I think that when we talk about pollution that we can talk about environmental pollution, where there is air, water and land, and of course the living world, but we can also talk about pollution in the sphere of communication, in relationships between people, and I want us to express ourselves against that and also against that, and in the name of the dialogue that needs to be created in Serbia and from which we need to produce a picture of Serbia, to participate in this together. Why am I making this dyspression? It is because of the words in the first Convention, which reads "land desertification", that would translate our language into relaxation or desolation or devastation of land. So, a series of parameters that cause climate change, so out of man's influence, or a man you're losing fertile soil to. Every kind of demeaning of this National Assembly, 250 of us from any of the professional, analytical, general public is the desertification of the Assembly as an institution. I'm not making this dyspression by accident, I'm making it because I think it's time 250 shows us that we won't be silent, every time we listen to a disqualification that speaks and refers to MPs. There's a difference between disqualification and criticism. To disqualification, you react by insult, then you decide whether to repel the insult or react. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been experiencing disqualifications for a very long time from the public, which should be criticised. I'm sure, since I've known enough of you here, long enough, that 250 of us are able and ready to have a good dialogue on everything about Serbia's future, but we're not ready to listen to disqualifications. We want criticism and that is to prevent the desolation or relaxation of the Assembly as an institution, as funny as it sounds to you to talk about our role in society on this subject. In short, about each of the conventions, from one corner, which I hope will contribute to the debate. So, the first Convention to be associated with this term of desertification, i.e. the loss of fertile soil, the creation of deserts that I, by example, put into other spheres of human life, not just in the environment, is also a topic of globalisation. It is another topic in which we do not speak in this congregation. I will return to what I found at the beginning, today's ignorance is a kidnapper of the future, today's ignorance is a great price to be paid by future generations, if we do not agree to remove this ignorance from our present day. I'm falling into a small group of people who claim that the era of globalisation on our planet has begun by throwing a bomb at Hiroshima and that what is a key point, and everything else is inevitable, and that we have a problem with both drought and poverty and with 250 million people who are at risk today and with 30,000,000 children who are thirsty around the planet today and with the unbalanced development of the planet, among other things, and because some of us are objects of globalisation, and some of us are subjects of globalisation. Some of us who are objects of globalisation do not invest enough neither knowledge nor skill to read part of the letter from the Indian chief of Seattle in 1854 to those who are subjects of globalisation. Maybe they don't have it, though it's original in English. What is the key problem of globalisation? Why African countries, Indonesia, South America and some of us, European countries, why we have a problem with the idea of globalisation. Because the basic essence of globalisation is who is there and which you can't remove, it's like a time opportunity. The main problem is that 10% of the world's population uses 90% of the world's resources. That wouldn't be bad if that percentage were slowly and without the participation of our knowledge and with our participation, as objects, not to move to 9% of the world's population using 91% of the resources, so 8% to 92%, etc. In world terms, we have been talking about the global North and the global South for quite a long time, like when we were talking about the North being rich and the South being poor, and here in the global North is Australia and New Zealand and the European Union in partnership with Russia and the United States and Canada. It's global, everybody else. What do we want? Where do we want to be? There's no other new space, there's no other new place for us, but what's reality outside of this room and outside of our country. What is reality in the knowledge that others have and that we have as potential but we will not use it, we will not, by this knowledge together, paint a picture of Serbia's future under these conventions on the improved environment compared to 2007. The Convention on Dissertification serves as an example to warn us all that we know very little about the processes that are currently going into the world, that more often when it comes to international politics, I hear that everyone thinks that in 1987, rather than 2007, and that more often than necessary, when it comes to global economic relations, we hear again in 1987 and not in 2007. One of the non-renewable resources and one of the resources given to people and given to each of us by chance to be born into a family, in a country is time as a resource, and that time we cannot renew any conventions and we cannot renew absolutely any international contracts. The environmental impact assessment in the cross-border context, what I was saying was that we are living across the border from the state, is a matter of agreement between at least two countries, and in our case it will always be more than two countries, and it is unusually important, let's not mix that with cross-border pollution-type factors of Tisa or nuclear-accessors like Chernobyl or any other species. People's MPs have a confusion over time. The chairman of the National Assembly after speaking, MP Masic did not return time to zero, so that I continued to his 20 minutes and I have two minutes left, so that the MPs would not think that I had some special status with the chairman. I don't have anyone and I don't need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7282	You're right, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7283	So, back to the cross-border context. It's just that it's not an idea for us to take care of the factors. Other services need to take care of the agents, the services that monitor what's going on. It's about the development of this territory that we live in together, and between us is the border, whatever we are, on the other hand or we are on this side. Looking at the Croatian Parliament yesterday, it is already a question of whether there are any differences between anywhere with state borders. I will gather the idea of this last three conventions in one comment. So, conservation of wild plant and animal species, taking care of species that move and Karpat, with only one illustration. If time travel were possible, and I had just said that time is the only non-renewable resource, that every moment is valuable and that it is therefore important that we take care of this time-consuming process, so if it were possible to travel through time and, let's say, dositej Obradovic appeared in Belgrade today, in Vojvodina, in Trieste, Vienna, in any city where he worked, lived and engaged in enlightenment, then probably my assessment would have three questions for us. The first question would be - how do you endure this much noise? The time of his life is compared to our time of great silence and the absence of noise pollution. Another question would be: Where are your plants and animals? Where are your woods? Where are your meadows? Where did all this go? The third question he would ask would probably be whether we understood his request, his recommendation, and the requirement that books and knowledge were needed by people. In his saying, "school, brothers, school, not bells and great-grandmothers." Each nudger instead of answering these questions is at the same time taking a hand in relation to the question asked by a child born yesterday in Serbia or born several years ago in Serbia or who will only be born in Serbia. For me, support, fighting for dialogue is about protecting the environment and controlling the application of the Environmental Protection Act, not the issue of politics, not even the issue of the institution, but the issue of elementary self-respect. Without doubting that we are all self-respecting, seeing that my fellow MP, Vladan Batic, is anxiously waiting to shift me here, I thank you for the attention you have listened to me. I hope, indeed, to a fruitful discussion after the presentation of both me and the other fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7284	I would like to thank MP Gordani Komic, the authorised representative of the DS. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is issued by the MP Dr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7285	I'm going to do a little dyspression. Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that a session of the Kosovo Committee is coming, which I cannot attend, because at 14:30, unfortunately, I have to be at the funeral. Our longtime colleague and friend, the fighter for democracy, union leader Dragoljub Stosic, passed away, so I just wanted to ask a few questions. He was a member of the DS for a long time, and he marked some time after us, from the '90s to today. With regard to Kosovo, since I cannot attend the session, just a few questions for the resolution minister for Kosovo and Metohija. One of them I set up a few days ago, and that is: is it for the purposes of institutions and municipalities where local self-government is under the leadership of our countrymen, particularly in northern Kosovo, is it for those municipalities and those institutions from the budget of the institutions of the Interim Self-Government in Kosovo, under the auspices of UNMIK, or from the Kosovo Government budget, whether they have been paid from 2001 to today, for example, for the hospital and health homes in northern Kosovo; which are concerned; are they displayed to you; how are they recorded; are the same purposes from Serbia's budget taken and received funds? It is a story of the double morale of those who address in the ugliest way and refer to representatives and officials of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, but who do not hate their money. What I would also like to ask the Registrar or the Minister of Infrastructure, I do not know which one is in charge – is the Zubin Potok – Lučka Reka – Bube – Raetice – Novi Pazar; who made the decision on the construction of the road; what is the value of the works; why were there no tenders? There are only about 30 nursing homes on the road, or houses. This time there are no officially approved crossings of the Serbian government, so the question is, what is this trip for? Is the contract concluded and the advance paid for the second time Banjska – Rudin – Raetic – Novi Pazar? The value of the works is 400 million. Was it and, if it wasn't, why wasn't there a tender for that trip? The third question, the Retarded House began in 2003 and ended in 2005 in the village of Srbovac. The value of the works is four million euros. As in the previous case, works were carried out by the company of the president of the Kosovo Chamber of Commerce and Metohija, so it was decided to turn this dormant home into a student home, though it is located six kilometers from Kosovo's Mitrovica. The same question, same story for three residential buildings built in the Bosniak border, with 24 apartments. Who's the performer, were there any tenders, how, why? We need to know the answers to these questions, because the story of our countrymen's position in Kosovo and Metohija is often a story that starts with a question – where are the money?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7286	I suggest we take a break by 3:00 now, and then we'll hear the authorized representatives of the other parliamentary groups. Resume session at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15,15]] Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, the authorised representative of the DSS – NS - Vojislav Kostunica, came forward. Here you go, ma'am, and let the authorised representative of the SPS Miletic Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I barely recognized myself in what you presented as Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like a few sentences of perhaps a little longer, because I think that the topic – environmentalism really deserves attention and I think it would be very ugly to skip the very important things for this country and not touch them and not talk about them. That's why my exposure may be a little bit longer, but it seems to me that the public should be familiar with some of the things these conventions are carrying, and I think it's very important that we highlight them. There are several draft laws today on the validation of conventions for an extremely important environment. One of them is the UN Convention against desertification in countries with severe drought, the second is the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Third Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, the Fourth is the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat and the Fifth, the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlife. I counted them completely on purpose, even though we've listed them several times, because I think it's important that we be familiar with the problem this set of proposals carries. All of these conventions have actually come as a fruit of knowing that environmental problems do not actually know the state borders, that they are most often global and that in solving these problems we have to start from having to make a common strategy and joint programmes and above all act together to really solve the problems of the environment and to protect and protect it for generations before and after, as we have gained it in relatively good condition before we have ruined it this much. One of these global problems that, in the 1960s, really appeared as a major problem and left great consequences on several continents is drought, and the international community has dealt very seriously with this problem in several years of its work. And as a result, a UN Conference on the Environment and Development took place in 1992. At that time, it is the first time supported by this integrated approach, which is very important and what should be talked about, and then the documents that promote this integrated approach, as Agenda 21, the Declaration on the Protection of the Environment, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biodiversity, appeared. What's in common for all these documents? They are extremely promoting an integrated approach and local community activity. All of this, therefore, has resulted in a further convention on the fight against desertification in countries facing the problem of drought, which was adopted in Paris in 1994, and came into force in 1996 and immediately signed 190 countries, there are the UN, of course, Serbia was not among those 190 countries. What we're actually talking about when we talk about desertification and what it's about in such mystical terms. I'm going to thank Mrs. Comic for speaking so funnyly about the problem itself and the concept itself, and I think that's how she gave many of us and many people who are looking at this to simply get acquainted with the concept itself. This is the process of degrading land as a result of different functions and different factors, among other things, and changes in climate and human activities. Of course the desertification process is causing great damage to the planet Earth today. When I say that, I'm talking about a substantial damage of several billion dollars and a space of 51.7 million square meters, which is 33% of the country's total surface area, and the problems that bring real difficulties in life to 250 million people in the country. There is a problem with 110 countries with desertification and semi-dry areas. Of course, Serbia is no exception to all of this and we really have a desertification problem and somewhere scientific is the view that it is happening because climate change exists. In the last two decades, a lot of dry years have been registered. The consequences of desertification in Serbia are an increase in air temperature and a decrease in rainfall, the emergence of extreme rainfall, the deterioration of soil physical characteristics, an increase in erosion processes, a reduction in the protective role of vegetation and difficult conditions, natural and artificial, to restore vegetation, not to add any further. It's just that every single one of us when we face this thing is aware that all of these factors are in action and that we live it. According to the instructions for a general assessment of land damage under the influence of people in Serbia, we can single out two processes. By degrading the erosion of land by wind or water, whose consequences are either the loss of that surface quality land or the deformation of the soil. Another type is the degradation of land by damage within the land itself, within the land profile and these are the worsening properties of land and different properties of land, such as acidity, pollution, loss of land quality. What's so important about that? It is therefore important to determine the degree of degradation, and it is measured as mild, moderate and strong. To determine whether the process has reached a smaller or larger area and determine at what speed it takes. In Serbia, I have to say that 86.5% of the territory is affected by the degradation of the land of a different type and intensity. Different in the plains, different in the mountain, are different functions, but what is important is that in Serbia, 37.3 million metres of cubic applications are produced each year, of which 25% of the deposits go into water ecosystems. What does that mean? This means that because of erosion, we come up with a permanent loss of quality of the country, that surface part of the country, and all of it goes into water ecosystems. There is no need to lose words, but it should be noted how much we suffered for the change, due to the desertification that took place due to NATO bombing. We had mechanical damage to the land, then, pollution to poor uranium, oil derivatives, but who knows what else. As a result of desertification in Serbia, there are three caves today, Deliblatska, Subotic-Horgoška and Ramsko-Golubačka, which means that 34,400 hectares of the country are practically taken away from the number we have under quality land. So, a cultured land is gone and caves are created. However, it must be said that in the past, there was something that had been done, that the caves were mostly forested, and therefore there were later problems like in the Deliblat Cave, which was a fire in 1996 when 3,000 acres of forest burned down, but it must be said that in one part we were doing something to cultivate land. All of this should mention the problems that exist, and there is a great risk of erosion in the miners, such as the Kolubar Basen, the Kostolak Basen and the big problem are industrial dumps where we have, I don't know the city in Serbia that has solved this problem and where practically all these chemical and biological pollutions don't go directly to the water streams. This summer we only had a situation that we had who knows how many polluted rivers. At one point I thought I knew the number, but now I'm really not sure because every day you get new and new information. Rehabilitation of this process involves a large number of measures and activities, and of course it is looking for significant material resources, which is a problem for each country, and it is a problem for us in particular, but primarily for integrated management of natural resources, meaning, soil and water and ecosystem in general. I must mention that as people who need to support laws and laws, we should say that we in our legislation have laws that we can rely on when we make a decision that we really want to approach and agree to conventions on which it is. I must say, first of all, this one law that used to be a federal rank, which is the Law on Hydrometeorological Affairs, of interest for the whole country, and then since 2004, we refer to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which regulates the integrated system of environmental protection, the Law on Forests, the Waters Act, the Law on Agricultural Land, so all these laws are partial, and in accordance with these conventions, they regulate the protection of certain categories of land. The issue of systematic protection of the same, and in particular mitigation of the effects of drought and reduction of surface degraded land or degree of degradation, as well as the protection of land from erosion, requires harmonisation of the existing Law from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. What exactly is the objective of this convention that I took to present first, so the desertification Convention? It is, above all, the suppression of desertification, the mitigation of the effects of drought in countries where this problem is visible, and there is also by working at all levels to achieve sustainable development in affected areas. What are the Member States supposed to do? This is one program of measures I'd like to say that our country is implementing and that we need to implement them. They should adopt a comprehensive approach to biological, sociological and physical aspects of desertification and drought, to establish a strategy to combat poverty and combat desertification and mitigation of droughts, to improve co-operation in the field of environmental protection and conservation of land and water, to strengthen subregional, regional and international co-operation, to establish strategies and priorities of sustainable development, to finance plans in the context of their opportunities, to strengthen legislation and institutions and what I think needs to be taken into account, and what I am really trying to say from this speaker is population education. Because ecology starts from that first step, from education what it is, how much we can contribute and how much each one of us needs to be an example to future generations. The convention, however, also predicts what is the pain of poor countries, which is us. In fact, developed countries need to make one shift in terms of providing financial resources to support countries in need of such assistance. What is the broader meaning of this convention? It sets out a long-term national strategy to combat desertification and drought, as well as a land prevention that has not yet been degraded. We're like a country affected by it, so that strategy is very important to us. It also establishes a stronger system of local, national, subregional and regional equipment. It strengthens the preparedness of drought management through plans for local, national, sub-regional and regional drought problems. It educates the population in the fight against this problem, educates for rational use of water, establishes projects of alternative lifestyles, and when I say so, I am fully aware that I will face many questions about what an alternative way of life is. It then establishes projects and develops sustainable irrigation and livestock supply programmes. We're facing this problem a few years back, and I don't think we've gotten far from it, except we're facing it. It forms and directs regional co-operation. What does Serbia get if it accepts these conventions? It is given the opportunity to form a network of relevant institutions, bodies and bodies for the implementation of the Convention, in which our experts would of course work. Then, it exchanges knowledge and experience, as well as the possibility of funding. What is this possibility for? To raise new forests, restore forests, watering and deforestation of agricultural land, therefore, for what we really need. We generally have a problem with irrigation and draining, and when someone who does it makes sense in a space that wants to cultivate more, we see a lot of things written about it and boasts a lot, and I think we have a system of channels in Vojvodina that is abandoned, which should be returned to purpose, and this may be the possibility of getting there. What would bring us this international co-operation? First, the transfer of technology, scientific research, exchange of information and financial resources, and it seems to me that the greatest gain would be support in the development and implementation of national action plans and programmes that should identify desertification factors, to set practical measures to combat the same and consequences of droughts, to specify the roles of land users of local communities and governments, where we always have a problem in general, to identify available resources. These plans should be closely linked to the national sustainable development strategy, and as we as a state have recently begun to engage in the development of this strategy, as well as the national ecological action plan, the validation of this Convention would make the process more high-quality and faster. A few more words to say about another convention. I really didn't put them in less important and more important, so in that order I'm saying, but I just kind of made myself a priority of what we needed right now as an emergency, so that's how I get to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment. So, the Convention was adopted in 1991 in Helsinki, signed 26 states out of 31, as far as it was present, and the others committed to adopt it the moment they were implemented in the procedure. It is also a significant international document because it speaks about joint action. The impact assessment is the process of identifying the assessment and publication of possible environmental impacts of a project, as well as the prevention, reduction and elimination of negative consequences. Of course, it involves interdisciplinaryity, because it simply covers soil, water, air, flora and fauna, geology, population, therefore, a completely interdisciplinary approach. This means that it only needs to be taken into account, quite simply, about a very balanced relationship on one side of the economy, the development of industry and the development of the state in that direction and on the other hand the protection of the environment. So find the right measure to preserve natural resources and, on the other hand, to develop the state. The very high criteria in this direction are set by the EU and it is very important to say that this Convention is leading towards that goal. What does she mean by practicality? An environmental impact assessment will be carried out to implement any project. So the purpose of this facility, the size of this facility, the space where it will be built, and all other elements will be taken into account how much it will harm the environment. Here's an example that is very close to me, because I think it was an ecological story that represented us in Europe as a people worthy of European standards, and that's the story of the village of Bezovica on the Mt. Rudnik and the family of the Bistrate streams. In this area which was completely ecologically clean and completely clean, Kamenolom was bought by the Manfred Asamer, an Austrian citizen, who brought the Zorka Atlas Stone company there, cut down five thousand trees, did not raise any new, completely endangered environments in that area, completely alter the appearance of the entire space, and my question about this is, as I know, Austria is a country that has extremely high standards in the area of conservation of the environment, whether in this way any citizen of a country can refer to the ecological goods of another country, or whether the environmental impact assessment of the environment is necessary? You betcha. What else is important to say? The EU comes from an attitude that has been fully accepted and I don't think there is a man who doesn't think the same way. Most important and best to prevent something at the very source, at the very beginning. If we had laws like this and signed a convention like this, we would be obliged to do so and to make the same standard as Mr. Manfred in Austria funerals and satisfies, there is also here in our area of Mount Mine. The signatories of the Convention shall, individually or jointly, take all measures resulting from this Convention in order to prevent cross-border damage and harmful influences and to establish the same assessment procedure as the criteria. Unfortunately for us, that wasn't the case. The accession of this Convention also opens up the possibility for us to reach the funds of international investment projects organisations and build new and reconstruction of existing facilities in our country, and here we really have a problem, starting with Obrenovac and beyond. I would never leave without mentioning the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, the conservation of biodiversity, the Convention on the Protection of Karpat, because I think they are extremely important, they are practically now covering that area of life of plants, animals and my predecessors have extremely professionally talked about how important it is to prevent all diseases, if anything else to prevent all the diseases that these migrant animals carry from knowing the border, impertinently crossing borders, not asking if they can do so. What I'm still trying to say is these are the international documents we need and how we need them. We need to guard our flora and fauna and our environment, but according to the high standards offered by these conventions at the moment and thus become international partners, we show that we are a mature people who really think about their commitment, sees what we need to do and become part of a system that keeps the country's space for future generations. I think it is quite clear, the DSS-New Serbia coalition -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica will be very pleased if this set of conventions votes and we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7288	The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and let MP Srdjan Sajn be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7289	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SPS on this proposed set of laws that are from the ecological area and concern the preservation of the living world and the environment in general has a positive view, as these conventions define many questions concerning the civilised and correct relationship of man to the environment and life as an unprecedented phenomenon on earth. This is about bill proposals, and five laws, which should confirm these conventions of international character concerning, as is said, desertification or drought, and hence land degradation and living conditions, then the conventions concerning environmental impact assessment in the cross-border context, which is very significant, then the Convention on the Sustainable Development of Karpat, the Convention concerning the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna as a natural treasure, which we have on the soil of our planet and in the wider environment, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Convention and the Conservation of Migration Species, also, which is part of the biodiversity and thus invaluable natural treasure. The reasons for the adoption of this set of laws on the validation of those conventions are environmental, economic and political nature and certainly contribute to the sustainable development of the region in which Serbia is located. These conventions treat and regulate very professional issues and address multidisciplinary problems, but their purpose and aim is to regulate regulations, norms and mechanisms in many areas, which is due to the preservation of the environment, as well as to give new quality to the environment, as well as to preserve nature. Of course, it's only possible to talk about some aspects here when it comes to, I would say to the general aspects of this matter, because it's really too much of professional matter in certain areas. The preservation of nature and biodiversity is very important, because it is an invaluable capital that has no price and gives a perspective for the survival of life on earth, hence, and the perspective of humanity. Modern society today is administrative-politically arranged in many countries according to different principles and arrangements, but administrative-political division does not apply to things that concern nature or the environment. We should all be aware of that. A common non-harmonised legal, scientific, technological and political regulatory action and the functioning of states, its governments and citizens is needed, because we all live in the same sky and the sun. The SPS believes that this is about universal principles and values, which are either characteristic or should at least be characteristic of modern civilization, and which stem from the essence of being the nature that man has to understand and respect in order to survive. In this context, they find the meaning of all the actions and businesses involved. They find the meaning and licenses for private and public projects to contain, in addition to other documents and an important environmental impact assessment within a country, but certainly in a cross-border context. There are many examples that in the border zones we have had ecological harassies and pollution of water flows or air due to the reckless and arrogant relationship of some of our neighbors. On the other hand, we, in some cases, cannot boast of industriousness and, as I would say, humane relations with these issues. The issue of biodiversity in Serbia is the result of the long-term evolution and phylogenism of individual species. This diversity is God’s gift or gift of nature, through the miraculous and very different adjustments that appear in the living world. The current state of biodiversity in our country is conditioned, as well as everywhere, by the quality and diversity of ecological and geographical conditions, which should be preserved but certainly improved and must be done and done. Biological diversity, on the one hand, is an image of the attained degree of evolution of life on earth, and on the other hand it is a picture and testimony of the attained civilizational level and the relationship of man and society to nature. This is about the ecological consciousness, which is missing in the minds of individuals, often and those who are able to manage with countries, economic activities or various activities. It is inadmissible, and the non-civilization cuneiform act, with its influence, destroys some species and thus impoverishes biodiversity. It's a crime to nature. Each species is a natural value that is not created by man's doing, but also by doing man shouldn't leave this planet. Many laws that regulate the protection and preservation of living things and their habitats in Serbia are present and have been adopted here sooner or later and in some parliaments in the past, not to list them and not to waste any time around it. One thing is certain, that these laws, our laws, are not respected enough, and some should be applied at a new moment and in new standards. We are all familiar with the problem of the enormous pollution of river streams, which we mentioned here and last time, or, for example, the disrespect of the Hunting Law, which speaks of the inappropriate and inappropriate relationship of man to nature. I will only list an example that took place in November 2001, in fact, at the Italian-Slovenian border, a truck with a load of some 20 tonnes of frozen rare bird bodies was stopped. It's a list, a load of 83 species, and 120,702 bodies of dead birds and 389 mammals. This list has shown that it is an unprecedented and unrecorded crime against wild birds in Europe, and that it was made on the soil of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, by the participation of Italian poachers, but certainly by the participation of poachers from our country. This is about both crime and the destruction of natural treasure and heritage. Evolution has built this legacy for three billion years, and someone destroys it in a few hours or a few days. No one has the right to destroy anything from the list of biological species that we found coming into this world. All of this we are obliged to leave in the legacy of future generations, respecting this principle, man will preserve himself on that list as one of the biological species. Recently in the National Assembly, we discussed the Kyoto Protocol with the Framework Convention on Climate Change. By considering this, we have looked at at at least partly haughtiness and carelessness as well as the greed of man to nature in certain cases. Science as an achievement does wonders, which result in figuratively speaking, the miraculous discoveries of the type of Frankenstein's action, if that's what a man is involved in. We have that in many sciences, in physics, in chemistry, in biology. What NATO is bombing or war facts on certain parts of the Earth's crust is never seen as an ecological problem to a sufficient extent, it is more about interstate disputes, about seeing legal-formal aspects of war, aggression, the use of conventional or nuclear weapons, and it is forgotten that the use of these devastating funds largely destroys the natural heritage and the living world that has been created for billions of years. To the same extent, if genocide seems to man in certain war conflicts, at the same time and in the same way appears genocide to nature. Also, when it comes to science, a very problematic area is genetic engineering, where we have, let's say, a field of genetically modified food, which is a dangerous adventure that leads humanity in an unknown direction, and what should be strictly taken care of. So every man's actions are calculated against nature and towards destroying biodiversity in extreme waters destabilising biological balance, and this is actually one of the essential issues, because it's a natural law that needs to be respected. Sometimes the harmless influence of a man on a living world makes big and catastrophic and fatal chain changes, which disturb this biological balance, and thus man destabilises his environment and has negative consequences for him. However, it is interesting to approach the international community in regulating and standardising this complex matter in certain cases. In fact, the EU has also established a wider international community on the scientific basis of the biogeographical region within the European ecological network, which are characterized by its specific structure of biodiversity. So in Europe we have several of these regions called Alpine, Atlantic, Boreal, Continental, Macronesia, Mediterranean, Steppe, Pannonian, etc. Here's the word, if we look at these regions, we'll notice that in each region we have a number of countries present, and Serbia is nowhere to be found. Of course, you'll say because we haven't signed the relevant conventions yet, but through these regions, a picture of the living world and biodiversity is given in its entirety. So, for example, the Alpine region where along with Central European and other countries, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, and our countries are gone. The continental region, apart from other countries, belongs to Bulgaria and Romania, has no Serbia, and should be there. Step region, Bulgaria and Romania. The Pannonian region, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, etc. Is Serbia not recorded in these regions and as if it actually does not exist, as if the world or that natural treasure of Serbia does not represent an inseparably constituent part of the living world of Europe and the country? Like the laws of nature in Serbia don't exist, or are they alien? It's as if their migratory animal screams don't migrate according to natural rules and laws and don't come to our territory or vice versa from our territory to theirs. Do these wild animals of ours that migrate can't migrate because they don't have a Schengen visa? So these are some absurdities to be taken care of. If there were no science policy or what we are talking about today, Serbia and any other territory would be classified according to its biological diversity structure in the regions where it belongs, and when the time comes for a particular country and Serbia to approach the validation of the Convention as a cube of projected mosaics is completed. So in that network of regions where it would be painted and presented the entire living world could be placed beside certain countries that have not yet joined, or confirmed the Convention, and when they have joined, they will be deleted. Only in such a way do we have a comprehensive and complete view of the natural treasure that owns all of humanity without taking care of administrative and political divisions. In some of these conventions, the amendments may include rare species that live as archaic and relic species or, for example, some of our endemics. So in these documents where flora and fauna are mentioned, e.g. There is no fatigue that affects a very narrow arena in the middle flow of Drina. It's about a plant that's subject to the interest of world researchers as plants of exceptional beauty, it's named the most beautiful quarter of the world. Or, prayer, a territorial relic and the Balkan Peninsula's endemite. Then, the Tisa, which is very rare, spreads out, but it is a rare plant and disappears. Not to add up now, because it's really a professional problem. Of course, the amendment supplement seems not by this assembly, when it comes to these conventions, but by professional bodies or commissions appointed by the state and I hope it will take care of these issues. A great danger to man and to the living world is the ever-increasing drought due to the formation of dry areas, a desertification, which I would not speak of further. So, given that I am running out of time, I will say that the SPS believes that these conventions should be confirmed because we as a state and its citizens are deeply aware of the importance of preserving the overall nature, as a complex system in whose harmony and consent can survive and have some perspective. Only after these first-class reasons why these conventions should be adopted are those other reasons that are important, too, but should not be artificial, only on paper, which is that the failure to pass these laws on the confirmation of these conventions could produce adverse consequences for achieving a strategic definition in further integration, and at least so as not to get full support at the Sixth Ministerial Conference, the environment for Europe, the Economic Commission of the United Nations in Belgrade. If we accept and confirm these conventions artificially, unconsciously, formally, and not because of their essence, then it is in vain what is some form of painting or producing a political one, if we disappear consciously and sincerely. The SPS has such a position and will vote for these reasons to confirm these conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7290	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Shin, and let Dr Rajko Đuric be prepared, and I will inform you, until Srdjan arrives, that they are in agreement with Article 93(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the SPS, the DSS - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, means 20 MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7291	One of the key parts of the Roma Party's programme is that Serbia must take care of its children, all its future generations. I want to say here that it is not enough for us to provide only an economic perspective to our children, if we fight to provide our children with one social status, so, relatively high position over others, unless we provide our children with a healthy environment and thus give them the opportunity to fight in the best possible way in that environment for themselves and for our future generations. In that sense, the Roma Party supports all these laws. I, as an MP, will vote for these laws, that is, this ratification. Among other things, there are a few other important things that I want to say about, which is, by accepting these laws, we create a certain chance and the economy of Serbia, especially for the economy of Vojvodina, which, through ratification of these conventions, especially by ratification of the Convention on the Future of the Carpathians, creates a different perspective of this work, creates the possibility of developing tourism, creates the possibility that Serbia is ready to take responsibility for the future of the entire planet. This is the best possible way for Serbia to prove that opening borders for Serbia means not only physically opening borders towards neighbouring countries, but opening Serbia to the world, means taking responsibility for the future of the entire planet. No matter what Serbia may be a relatively small country today, but in this way we show that we are all taking equal responsibility in the world and that, exactly what certain political parties are talking about, this way we can, together with the great forces, fight for the greatest possible goal, and that is, once again, to create an adequate future for the children. Anyone who swears to think about the future of his children, anyone who swears, who doesn't have children, should think about the future of his brother's children, his sister, or his loved ones, in my opinion, he should accept such documents, regardless of their inadequacies. One more thing I want to say, since there is a resolute minister, to commend one of the activities it aims, and I hope that in the next month, up to two, it will be realized, and that is, to enable Roma national community members through one project to export catalysts to Europe. In this way, the Roma will show that they do not only want to draw funds in Serbia, that they do not only want to take money from funds, but also have the potential to participate, that in Serbia those things that were once dumped can bring millions of euros to Serbia, and that, in practice, the relationship between the Serbian and European economies can make a concrete contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7292	I thank the People's MP Srdjan Shin. The word has Dr. Rajko Djuric, let Dr. Bojan Milovanovic prepare himself. And on the list of speakers, I apologize, there will be speech DS, MP Radoslav Milovanovic, I apologize to Mr Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7293	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ladies and fellow Members of the People, I am very grateful first to Mr. Minister, Sasha Dragin, Professor Zoran Mašić, and, especially, colleagues Gordani Komic, who, despite everything, managed to bring some light into this hall where, otherwise, Mr. Minister, there is no natural sunlight. It is this debate that has shown, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that expertise can reduce, even eliminate party and ideological differences. I would really be happy if, Mr. Chairman, we had the opportunity to have as much professional conversation in this home as possible. Because I don't know if it makes sense, but despite that, I dare say, we are MPs, not MPs of our parties. If we respect the voice of the people, then, ladies and gentlemen, let's look at what the latest research is about. On the question: what is the single biggest problem Serbia faces today, 25% of respondents say: unemployment, 21% of Kosovo, then, 16% low standard, 6% of respondents think that these are economic problems, 4% corruption, 4% crime, 2% political conflicts, and you may not believe relations with The Hague, are only one percent! This time I quoted this research as an illustration. We spend a lot of time on patriotism and stuff. "Conkurs" for patriotism, as far as I know - has not been called yet. A novelist, Isidora Sekulic, a great Serbian patriot, said: "The most beautiful feelings of the people, nationalism and patriotism, alas, in Serbia were often turned into immorality and crime." So let us listen, then, to Isidor Sekulić's advice and not allow these best feelings to turn into immorality and crime. Now, let me get back to what it's about. In fact, scientificly speaking, there are three key principles in the philosophy of new development. The first is: everywhere in the world life is organized on the same principles. Mr. Minister, on this particular point today, has said very significant things. Second, it is a warning of world science: a desire to extract from the subject only benefits, inevitably leads to the destruction of these objects. I would, in line with what Comic said, both the people and the people. And the third principle is modern development: resources do not exist, resources are created. So, without wanting to overly and needlessly, perhaps, I am wasting my time, I propose, Mr. Chairman, to try to form at least one working group or, perhaps, a subcommittee in our Parliament that will work on it. World experts have raised 44 issues of vital importance for our time. Then they found 27, and they explained through analysis what was waiting for us and 21st century. Only 45 pages! So, let's not discover America anymore; let's sit and work. The next key question – about higher education policies, because soon new personnel will be needed, is simple: what are we going to live on tomorrow? And, here, complete studies. I won't take your time. So let's try, first of all, as MPs, taking care of the interests of the people, the interests of our country and our country, to think very seriously and to discuss matters that are truly vital to our country, so to all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7294	I thank the People's MP, Dr. Rajko Djuric. The word has Dr Bojan Milovanovic, let Sasa Valjarevic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps my discussion will differ slightly from what we have heard so far. At first, I must say that the SPS supports the view that the proposed conventions are being ratified today, that is, to be done by the Assembly. What's going to differ by shade from my previous speakers, is that the SPS and the concept that it pushes through its program, is that man is a central question, a question of man in this whole story. I've listened to my predecessors very carefully today, I haven't heard a single moment of question from a man in everything we've talked about. Why do I point this out and potentiate? For a simple reason, because I come from the municipality of Raška, in one municipality where the National Park of Kopalnik, the Nature Park of Golia is located and, Mr. Minister, if you do not know, there is a biosphere reserve in the Park of Nature and in the material we have read say your professional services that there is only one and it is the canyon of Tara. I'm telling you there's another very significant natural resource in our environment. Why am I saying this? The central question today is a man who simply lives with nature, and that's where I point out to the dominant population and to that rural man who lives in a national park today, not just the Copalnik, but don't blame me because I'm going to talk a little bit more about him. I don't mind a man, I have the impression that he is today the most endangered, I repeat again, not to be resented by a man, the most endangered animal in national parks. A man in national parks, in nature, in all the resources and values Serbia has, and believe me, Raška and how many there are, is today the only one who is threatened to stay in those areas. I'm not saying this by accident, because we mostly remember to talk about things in a kind of twisted order. The developed countries of the world today raised their economies, built their industries, found a way to affirm a man living in national parks. We have people moving out of national parks today. The ratio of the government, I remind you, in the past six or seven years, I have actively participated in the creation of a spatial plan of special purpose. I remind you, this plan is neither for Golia nor for the Bather, nor has it been brought here today. This is one irresponsible thing that implies that everything that happens in such an environment will be safe and exclusively based on what is called the Special Purpose Plan. Why special purposes? Because these are not only plans but also financial concepts, i.e. the government's responsibility to invest in these national parks. We today have threatened our forests, flora and fauna for one reason only, because perhaps with the lack of resources, but also lack of goodwill, we have one destruction, an accelerated destruction of biodiversity and the entire of our plant and animal treasure that we possess. However, bringing these plans, during the public debates and the expert meetings we had, a basic survey when we asked and the sub-region and sub-golic people and peasants living in the area, whether they agreed to extend the boundaries of spatial plans, was given a startling response that they were defending themselves against the extension of national parks as "God damn it". What's the reason? For a simple reason, because we are the same nature that these dominant people have been guarding for thousands of years, they have suddenly become the cause and the "great" danger that this same nature that they have lived with for thousands of years will destroy. It's absurd that today's people who are in national parks have to move out, because with the strict ecological criteria that, once again, I and I personally support, we haven't found a way to make these people richer and happier because they live in national parks, not more endangered. So we have regions and borders of national parks, and at this point let's go around all of Serbia, in a brief retrospective, we'll see that our poorest population lives right in national parks. A serious state and a serious country show interest, except for these proposed conventions, where Serbia absolutely does not lag behind in what is called a responsible and comprehensive view, a world view of standards in the ecological sphere. A serious state, I say, is behind all these plans and concepts and it's a material base, so money. It'll be the best way to understand me. Today in the national park we have one great danger of destroying biodiversity for a simple reason, because that growth is not in line with both the state's appetites and local self-government, but, above all, the municipal infrastructure is unable to monitor what's going on. So we come into a vicious circle to think that we will preserve nature in a way that we will fence it and separate it from man. I'm saying, that's why there are biosphere reserves, and it's true that those standards are used in biosphere reserves. However, national parks and natural wealth and mildness are interests with which Serbia should go to Europe. So we can't hide it from people. With the world's highest standards of this moment in the field of environmentalism, it should also be shown to the world but also to those people, who are the best guardians of these national parks, that they are the ones who can preserve that environment perhaps better than ourselves. Once again appeal to you, Mr. Minister, that, as far as you can, speed up the process of bringing up the spatial plans of the park of nature of Goli and the National Park of Kopalnik. Another very important reason I have to mention here, and I'm going to leave a little time for my colleagues, is that we are often in our most important places where we protect nature, facing the desire of local self-government to make these national parks the potential and resources that will raise our standard. I underline that Raška municipality is a devastated municipality, and that there is a National Park "Kopalnik", "Golia" Nature Park, has the largest ore resources in the country, has a complete cultural and historical treasure. Imagine, when such a municipality is underdeveloped in Serbia today, it just points to an unserious approach, and above all to one such municipality. So, if the state at this point and the government want to show the expression of goodwill, not only through the adoption of these conventions, but that it will really support these projects in the world of some high environmental standards, here is a good way to get out of NIP funds, but as much as tomorrow, and I hope it will be a pleasant pleasure for the Minister, Mr Gilas, to see on Friday in the Kingdom and to make sure that certain funds are set aside for redefining, for raising capacity and for the already elaborated water line on the Bath and sewers, which, as it is, is already known to all. The Golia Nature Park may now be one of the most interesting resources, not just in terms of our concerns in the sphere of protection. I look forward to sharing the care of Golia with colleagues from the King, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, Ivanjica, and it is a concern and Serbia, but in any case, it is regional. That is why we are even more supportive of these views to vote in the conventions. These conventions should be the drivers, because they provide for the highest standards. counterpart Comic seems to have mentioned what is also very important to me that Agenda 21 and those high standards adopted by the UN, local self-government put in the very centre of events. Such local self-governments, as they are now in Serbia, where centralisation is still something that may not be the subject of this conversation, do not have the means to deal with environmental issues. With that in mind, one big responsibility is in Raška, and it is often potentiated as a racial problem, why our bather is dirty, why the garbage, why the water is not quite adequate. When there's a little money, and a lot of commitment, you said it today, and you made a point, there's always a way to care and that environmental aspect somehow ends up. Once again, I'm undermining, with this short story in which I was trying to say that in this ecological world, which we were talking about today, it puts a man. We must, Mr. Minister, find a way for every man whose land is, above all, eternal land, in the space of national parks, to be happy about it and to allow them a better standard of life. Not to face bans. You know, you can't pick mushrooms, and he's been picking them for hundreds of years. Find a way - how. The herd of his sheep cannot be forbidden now to go to pasture, for it was done two thousand or three thousand years. Do you know what's interesting? Our nature was best preserved when there were a lot of these peasant people. They kept it the best. Better than any forester, they've preserved our parks of nature. They were parks of nature and national parks, while they were guarded by our grandfathers. The moment we started some big demagogue debates to guard these national parks, the first things to threaten both our environment and our environment arrived. Thanks again. I think you could see something from this. I just wanted to point out that the SPS's position at all, that the issue of the debate on flora and fauna cannot be separated from man at all. I'm saying again, maybe at this point you need to think a little bit more about the man, but certainly with the highest standards regarding the conservation of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7296	I thank Ambassador Milovanovic. I apologize to MP Valjarevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7297	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, I am reporting in accordance with Article 225 concerning Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I'll lead you to the exposition of the predecessor. I listened to my dear colleague with care. I would also use the minister's presence to ask a few questions. I would say that it's remarkable that we're dealing with this topic, it's extraordinary that we've put all the points together in a joint discussion because they're tied to each other. Consistent with the presentation of the previous speaker, I am personally interested in whether our accompanying legislation has sufficient capacity to monitor all this that we are talking about today and whether such legislation, with such capacities, is being implemented in an adequate way on the ground? As someone who deals with hiking and other sports that are related to nature, and how well I know that our existing legislation does not have enough capacity and that it is applied in a very inadequate way, so I would use the minister's presence to ask these questions as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7298	The word has a folk MP, Saša Valjarevic, and let Bojana Aleksic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7299	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, as far as this set of laws on the validation of all these conventions is concerned, since I am going to leave a little time to other colleagues, I am going to talk about the draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, which was submitted by the Government on 23 July 2007. By reading this proposal, which must have been coming from your cabinet to the government for adoption, I can say that this proposal is bad. However, in the very explanation of why the emergency procedure is under way, you have again stated that this is very important, as well as in the Kyoto Protocol proposal, regarding the Europe Environment Conference, which is held in Belgrade from 10th to 12th, that it is important "to obtain funding from international investment projects organisations for the construction of new and reconstruction of existing facilities in our country". We're a little skeptical and we're not convinced, we SRS MPs, that that's exactly how it's going to be, and I'm going to give you concrete examples of why. The municipality from which I come, the municipality of Požarec consists of two cities, Požarec and Kostolac, and 24 rural settlements. The skeleton is, as you know, one of the leading energy giants in Serbia, after Obrenovac. There are three blocks of thermal power plants: Bones A and B and Termo Power Plant "Small". During NATO bombings in 1999, a complete energy system of Kostolac, which was then badly damaged, was dropped. The same happened with a large system of power plants in Obrenovac, when graphite bombs, even rockets hit those main power transmission transformers. These were huge destructions of the energy system, for which the Republic of Serbia had to allocate huge funds, to put these systems back into operation, so that it could function normally. After 2000, and the DOS came to power, you promised that friends from America, from the EU, would provide funds and that all these systems would be launched, that there would be reconstruction, that much better to live and much better functioning in Serbia. There was nothing of it, except that we got the possibility of new loans, and the country was already out of line with ten years of sanctions, so we re-accessed to debt slavery, because we were in charge of re-using all these systems that were needed for the normal functioning of a country to put into normal drive. I can't say that nothing's been done, but last year we only got one donation of five million euros, where electrofilters were installed on chimneys in a bone-based power plant, means only one. This power plant serves to heat the fireman and Kostolac. The other power plants didn't have the resources, nor did Elektroprivreda have the resources to invest in the others, so the gas emissions are still at a very high level. The monitoring station doesn't exist in Kostolc. I'd like to invite you to come and visit the town of Kostolac and that energy system, since it's in your vault. I know you have local self-government inspectors controlling it. However, I think you should come, given that there is not only a problem in the gas emissions itself, but there is a major environmental problem, to say one ecological bomb at some 300 hectares, which is an ash that threatens the life and health of all the residents of the Pogorec municipality, most of the Kostolac and villages around that ashes and power plants. Of course, it is passed on to Pogorec, even to another region, because the roses carry all these particles. What's going on? Even on the other side of the Danube, the ashes are delivered to the roses of the winds and when they are strong, so that, Malten, in those days a complete Danube cannot be seen. Kovin has also been polluted, Bavanište has been polluted, and all other villages dealing with agricultural production, gardening. Many farmers have invested protests with the competent Ministry of Agriculture because they happen to have ash in their agricultural products, for example, when a cabbage or any agricultural product grown in that part of their territory is opened. In order to prevent all of this from happening safely, we need to invest large funds. Given that the NIP is going to compete with all projects, e.g. The municipality of Požarec has specifically applied for the recovery of existing dumps and for the construction of a regional dump. We also applied, and we suggested that the power plants themselves compete, in terms of resuscitating the existing situation in their power plants. According to top executives, a strategy was developed in thermal power plants from 2005 to 2014, on reducing sulphur oxide emissions and reducing other harmful gases. But they certainly can't do it on their own. So I'm giving you some instructions, in the sense that this year, much more funds are being allocated to budget programming for 2008. It's a good thing it started to worry about protecting the environment and taking care of the earth, air and water at all. We are guilty of not having a problem with wastewater in large cities. The city of Belgrade has no resolved programme, wastewater is released directly in the Danube and Sava. It would be understandable for the Serbian capital, for a capital that has over two million inhabitants, to have it resolved. Also, as for the disposal of municipal waste, they do not have an ecological dump in Belgrade either. As for municipal waste management, there has been a government strategy since 2003, where 29 regional dumps in Serbia are planned. That's good. But so far, no dump has been built. The construction of a regional dump in Kikinda, where municipality president Mr Blazic has already embarked on the construction process. The Asa company from the Czech Republic is building this regional dump. Otherwise, we only have two ecological dumps, which are municipal, in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, it was the donation of some NGO from Norway, and as far as Vranje municipality is concerned, it is the same municipal dump, the only one that is ecological – "Meteris". However, it cannot satisfy its capacities and other municipalities in Serbia. The problem is that we meet daily with environmental problems, especially in terms of pollution and soil, air and water. Large contaminants are also the waste dumps, because they're being delayed to the dump. These are not dumps, we in smaller municipalities and cities call them dumps, but small local self-governments are not able, because their budgets are very modest, that they are implemented, and that they build for their municipality. It's a good thing the government's strategy is to do it regionally. However, little has been done. The previous government didn't do anything about it. Last year, however, was a tender for the allocation of funds to build these dumps and then cared about it. However, there has been a hint that this year, through your ministry, it will be a competition for the allocation of new funds, and these are the only possibilities that we can preserve our environment and leave, as my colleagues and colleagues told me before, for new generations, to live in a healthier and better environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7300	I thank Mr. Sasha Valjarevic. The word has the People's MP Bojana Alexic, and make sure Marko Milenkovic is prepared. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure Nebojsa Rangelovic, and Mrs Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7301	President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with an apology for reporting again to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225 on this agenda point, on the previous presentation. I listened very carefully to my colleague. He opened the topic of environmental aspects of Serbia's energy system. Of course, that subject should be open and spoken of, for it is also very messy. I wonder how to talk about this topic when the bearers themselves, I mean public enterprises, specifically of the "Electro-priority" of Serbia, have a very different attitude towards the money they collect from citizens. So instead of dealing with what their business is, they're just muttering over affairs within the companies themselves. I would specifically cite the example of the "Southeast" in Nis, where abuse is worth 666 thousand euros in some way covered up, because there were no sanctions and no personnel changes and no shifts; no one has been removed on the subjective nor on the objective line of responsibility, nor has the question of responsibility been raised by everyone in that ministry, including the minister himself. How now do we discuss the environmental aspects of the energy system in Serbia when we have such problems that no one wants to solve, where much larger actors are interested in sharing places on boards and how they will defend themselves and how they will deal with crime in their own ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7302	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, and according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slobodan Maras also reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of me, nor anyone from the SRS, to direct this discussion in any other direction which, at least so far, has been very correct and professional, of course each of us is expressing his views and views, and on this side I am sorry that I'm breaking in with this other topic, but I have an obligation to inform you of the state of the Gjilana Health Center two days ago. I received a fax today from the newly elected Management Board, which was chosen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who twice tried to meet, but the director, a certain Milorad Todorovic, does not allow the Management Board to enter the premises and start working in line with the Republic of Serbia's Government Decision. Excuse me. They said a new meeting was scheduled for today at 5:00. That is why I want to inform the public, and also the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am sorry that I did not get this earlier, and I would really, because I know that the Government is meeting on Thursday, but I think that you who are in contact with the members of the government should inform the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this Mr. Todorovic really needs someone to get in the way, because he cannot be stronger than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I said the other day, and today, we don't have any party interest, because no one in that Management Board is a member of the SRS, but the situation in which our citizens and our people in Kosovo and Metohija are otherwise located, and yet this kind of thing is made by someone that the board members say and know why they don't allow this Management Board to meet. He threatens them, threatens the police, and says he will no longer be allowed to come to Serbia, and he is otherwise known for his sentences, which he has repeatedly said, that Serbia in Gjilan is a neighbouring country, which is really scary, and then they talk and write about his many abuses and negativity; he hired, I don't know, a lot of relatives, friends, his sister-in-law is a statistical son-in-law, a brother-in-law, a brother-in-law, an auto mechanic, and wherever he could have hired his family from his closest family. The new members of the Management Board suspect that there are many more reasons and many malfeasances that this Committee could reveal and reveal, and for this reason they are convinced that it does not allow this board to start functioning. Otherwise, this gentleman, Milorad Todorovic, talks down on the board and the people in Gjilan that he can do whatever he wants, because behind him stands the DSS, whose member he says he is. I am now asking you, Minister, and other fellow Members of Parliament who are participating in the work on these points of the agenda, to come out for a moment and invite your colleague Tomica Milosavljevic and to inform him about this problem, so that he calls downstairs, that at least today at 17 hours, from the third try, this board of directors is ambushing, and then finally find out what Mr. Todorovic is hiding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7304	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Free Maras called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7305	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, also, I would not be very far away from the topic, but by respecting the topic which is on the agenda and respecting the work of the resolution minister, I would just like for a few moments to rely on what Mr. Rangelovic of the LDP said. The situation that happened in Nis, about a month ago and change days ago, when 666 thousand euros were damaged by the EPS is really alarming. Instead of getting the police and the judiciary to deal with this issue with their own power, we are afraid that we will be in a position to re-announce electricity. It would be good to prevent all possible malfeasances in the EPS and not pay more electricity for these reasons. Also, Mr. Rangelovic probably forgot to mention that the biggest malversions are being made under the auspices of Vojin Lazarevic, who is literally the head of the energy mafia in Serbia and the man who controls all energy and who manages the EPS. We fear that the moment the EPS is privatised that it will be just formalizing the state of play, that the gentleman will only formally become what he already is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7306	I would like to thank Ambassador Slobodan Marash. Now he has the word National MP Bojana Aleksic, and let Marko Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7307	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I just thought that one day we could spend without hurting the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to have become too much of a habit for us. Today we are discussing an extremely important topic. My fellow predecessors spoke very highly of the reasons why we should support these conventions and have them ratified. It is simply something that will affect the lives of all of us Serbian citizens, but not only Serbia, but also the region to which we belong, both Europe and the whole world. Because Serbia is not a desert island somewhere in the Pacific Ocean, but a European country with all its natural resources, with a climate that is not just its own. So, the life of all of us and how it affects and everything that happens in the surrounding countries, in Europe and the whole world. Sometimes it takes a great tragedy to remember how important environmental protection is to the lives of all of us. Very rarely, we think about environmental protection and the problems involved before such accidents happen. More and more often, unfortunately, we have the occurrence of floods, droughts, various natural disasters, fires, more and more of the stories of poachers, the abuse of our animals, the smuggling of our animals. We hear more and more about how the forest is cut off without need, and then we wonder why the floods are happening to us. Right, when it comes to Carpathians, we are all witnesses of the terrible floods that have occurred over the past few years and which are the direct consequence of cutting down forests in the Carpathians. That's why it takes a lot to deal with these problems seriously, to start thinking about ourselves, about our children, about what kind of country we leave behind. To remember that the 20th century has been the greatest industrialization, that people have done great crimes towards nature, that we have begun to endure the consequences of these evils towards nature, that in the general race for industrialization, for the acquisition of material goods, in the pursuit of work, we have forgotten that we should look around us, look at the trees, at the birds, at the animals, and look at our children and think about what kind of water they drink, what air we breathe and start very seriously about thinking about doing something. It is good that the Ministry of Ecology has been seriously dealing with these problems for the past few years, but it needs to continue and there is much to be done to repair the damage already done, not only in Serbia but worldwide.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7308	The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic, and let Vidoje Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7309	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposed confirmation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a cross-border context in terms of not causing negative cross-border influences, and it is not so controversial, how controversial the country's concern about its own environment, concern about human health in endangered areas, and dealing with causes rather than preventive activities. In this regard, I will refer to the situation in Toplička County, where, for example, Blace is in the center, due to the lack of dump and container, buried with garbage, or Kursumli where there is a wild dump next to the municipal court building or in Žitoraja, next to the municipality building. Such and similar things have repeatedly led to an outbreak of jaundice, and rather than adopting European charters, urgent and concrete measures should be taken to prevent further contagion. The situation in Serbia is no better, when the state's activity is at stake and you still need a local prince such as Zitoradje municipality President Stanisa Djokic to be extremely worrying. Namely, the municipality of Žitorajje was hit on two occasions by terrible floods and the city in 2006. In particular, Djakos, Pejkovac, Samarovac and Držinovac were damaged, places with the most fertile land of Dobričko area where all wells with drinking water were flooded except for the absolutely damaged crops. I note that these are villages without built water. Although the Zitoraj Municipality Assembly unanimously takes the decision to buy a mud pump to resuscitate the wells, Stanisa Djokic, a member of New Serbia, prevents the purchase, even after the second Decision of the Buying Assembly until today remains consistent in self-will and unscrupulousness. Furthermore, in the light of emergency aids for the recovery of damages caused by natural disasters from the Republic government, municipalities receive amounts of 3 million and 10 million dinars. And what does Stanisha Djokic do? Coldly rerouting 3 million for the regular needs of budget implementation as if nothing had happened, as if the people were booming roses, and the amount of 10 million just for his known, "business reasons" is being transferred to the account of the Public Enterprise. After three months, the Directorate returns the full amount to him, so that he can transfer some of those funds to the primary school, the social center, the sports hall, the National Library and some private accounting agency, which is not accidentally located in the premises of his private company. On the side that six months after receiving the funds, the finance ministry was due to submit a report on the funds spent. That's where I fully understand why he didn't do it, because what he could write when he was walking funds from an account, stealing here and there, while the injured citizens who had households and planted fields flooded by Djokic were deceived by who knows which way. When it comes to protecting the environment and human health, I will bring you the problem of the population of the densest populated Grivac settlement, with which Djokic, of the 6 million dedicated pairs, built only 1300 meters of sewerage, and the citizens of the settlements built 2 million and 700,000 meters of sewers. Now Djokic does not want to finish the job because after the magical disappearance of the 6 million he considers the job completed. I'm asking you, is there a sentence, a conviction for criminals like this who don't hurt the pain and the problems of our people, but are trying to fill his pockets in his troubles? When it comes to confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats and the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals, I will not talk about DOS Minister Dragan Veselinov and his bird smuggling. Is that crime and thieving? Does that crime have the name and last name of the minister and what happened? To this day nothing, the people know very well. I'm going to talk about once a clean river of Toplice, where the waters of seven baths are poured into, about the destruction of its plant and animal world on many occasions, the great sea of fish in a river that today is qualified with a fourth degree of pollution. There are no more clams, crabs and vertebrates in Toplica, and there are fewer and fewer indigenous fish, as only in one run of July 17th and 18th this year, more than 10 tonnes of fish died from Kursumlia. I will also remind you of the sea of fish in Timok near Književec, in Moravica near Soko Banja, Skrapaža near Požega, Rasina near Brus, mainly due to the high concentration of ammonia, phenol, a large number of fats and oils whose quantities once crossed and were more than 50 times more than those which do not disturb fish. One of the contaminants that was written a lot about, the Wood combination "Kopalnik" from Kursumlia, which before privatisation had 1800 workers in early 2007 fell to below 800 workers. After 2000, the government's relationship with privatisation was reported in the disorderly payouts of personal incomes, the reduction of the number of workers, the reduction of production volumes, but the increasing pollution of the environment, as despite the installation of wastewater treatment equipment, there were environmental disasters in Toplice. By switching to sawdust boilers, there was even air pollution which wasn't the case before. The factory isn't working right now. Of course, when all this happens, the resulting damage is less significant, and the solution is certainly not to close factories and release people from work but to find ways to install and use modern ecological plants and filters to clean waste industrial and municipal waters. This is what you and your government should do, Mr Dragin, not the blind adoption of European conventions on the protection of their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7310	The People's Messenger Vidoje Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7311	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today on the agenda a draft set of laws confirming conventions. I will not list them in order, because we have heard from previous speakers, and we have heard in the opening statement from Mr. Minister what the aim of all these conventions is, and I just want to repeat that the SPS will vote to confirm all these conventions, because one of the very important issues is the issue of environmental protection. In those conventions, I shall speak in a common context. Mostly common objectives have been set, the fight against possible consequences, the mitigation of consequences, then respect for principles, the obligations of vulnerable, the obligations of developed countries, the adoption of action plans, international co-operation, sources of funding, the provision of information and a simple decision-making. What I especially want to point out is one of the important issues, as I said, which is the protection of the environment where the SPS puts man's relationship in the first place towards nature. I think that our Ministry of Environment and the state itself, or government itself, and the previous government, have passed a set of laws that regulate the issue of environmental protection and have announced a number of sublegal acts and a number of legal acts with a set deadline. It is very important that our country in particular analyses this socio-economic impact on environmental protection, which is currently putting pressure on the environment and causes consequences on human health and ultimately produces a feedback response from people, and from these environmental feedback towards these socio-economic flows. Our obligation is to also determine the effects of environmental pollution, above all by energy, traffic, agriculture, forestry, industry, tourism, etc. It is also an important segment to identify potential pollutants for emissions of harmful gases in the air, waste, municipal waste, industrial waste, forest pressures, hunting, fishing, etc. Assessment of the state of all this, reactions, and product reactions above all, state reactions, through legislative acts, i.e. the adoption of the law. We have passed four laws, a Law on the Protection of the Environment, a strategic impact assessment on the environment, a Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants. One segment that needs to be mentioned is financing, inspection and strategic plans. I think the state has made some moves and brought some strategies and we know the strategy for removing waste. However, I would like, during a recent debate on Kyoto, to have the minister present, to ease the minister's performance in one direction. I agree that potential contaminants should also be subject to positive regulations, especially those which do not respond to preventive measures. I also want to say that it would be very harmful if we were to make such decisions too quickly because of the closure of production capacities, because of the loss of jobs. I think we should be a little more careful here, and I'm counting on you to work that way in the future. Another one of my calls is when it comes to waste disposal. The state did, or brought a waste disposal strategy, where we focused on regional dumps. I urge you, Mr. Minister, whether through your Fund, whether through the National Investment Plan, to help and speed up these activities in terms of building regional dumps, and that inspection services still have a view, because 95% of the municipalities have dumps, and there is no orderly dumps and do not punish public utility companies. I'm not defending them, but we need to work together. What I want to say is even more important – are the states, we will sign these conventions, take joint care of the protection of the environment? No, I don't. It is an example of NATO bombing and aggression that has been carried out on us, a large number of missiles with impoverished uranium. I think we have double arches when it comes to state behaviour, when it comes to NATO members and I call on the Minister to have the right and obligation at this Sixth Ministerial Conference to ask all ministers present to resolve this issue, through the mandatory financing and demand of additional funding, in our country. Also, the use of natural resources, cementers, needs to be done through certain means, through certain fees, the collection of natural resources, to focus on solving these problems. Another issue under the European Convention on the Conservation of European Flora and Fauna. I would like to point out that in the municipality of Love, we have a natural reserve of the Canyon of Tresnice, with an extremely rare type of bird, white-headed soup. We've filed one request for custody, or mastership. I think the best we can do, not someone else from Valjev, I don't want to criticise it, but we've instructed the Ministry to bring an amendment to the regulation and to trust custody of the white-headed soup of the cherry canyon in Love. I invite you to take that part, if you can do it. Because of the time for your colleagues, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7312	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, and let Vladan Vukicevic be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today this entire set, or these five laws to protect the human environment, is on the agenda, and we've mostly commented so little, and I'm going to stay the most in desertification, that is, in that area. Why? I'm a woodsman by walk-in, I come from the National Park, and I can make some contributions to that convention. This is one in a series of international agreements and conventions that had to be brought much earlier. What were the conditions negative for the early adoption of this convention? That's my question. Drought is a danger to all states. This phenomenon appears in the international dictionary and in the professional nomenclature as a desertification. Expansion of deserts in world proportions becomes a trend. This trend, science, humanity needs to stop with modern methods. Local communities, together with the state, need to take measures to minimise these and similar problems. This convention was adopted in 1994 in Paris. That year was difficult for us because we then rescheduled the state, which came out and was still in a state of destroyed human and state relations, so we know how it was. This convention was ratified by 190 countries in the world and by the European Union. Desertification is the degradation of land as a consequence of various factors in climate and human factors. A man with a positive effect on the environment in which he lives can reduce this desertification process, how? If the whole community wants it then an individual can contribute to this process, to reduce desertification processes. What individual? Everyone at their jobs and beyond. Is this area of agriculture, forestry, water industry, meteorology, and now meteorology goes so far as to create artificial rains on a restricted area with silver oxide. Economically better standing countries also have funds for this area, and we are only at the beginning, or we are just joining now. I hope that we will invest in such and similar areas. It used to dry the swamps and turn them into agricultural land, and now the same thing has to be done in the opposite direction, to turn deserts back into agricultural land. We Serbs, in the last and previous centuries, have had constant migration flows, and this people are unable to deal with this phenomenon on a global scale for justifiable reasons. Statistics indicate that 33% of our planet is threatened by desertification, which accounts for about 250 million inhabitants. What we as a state should do to make this process as small as possible: preserve existing forest funds and turn all infertile land into fertile land, and turn the low forests into high forests. If we know that one square metre of forest land retains 100 liters of water, here it's a stem like a sponge and it's that water receptive. If, in some cases, forest deforestations occur, which is prohibited by law, erosion immediately occurs in such places as the desertification lobby. I'll give you an example of what the enemy did to us during the 1999 bombing. They were looking for targets in Fruško Gora and a wider environment to drop tens of thousands of bombs, which, on the surface of 9,000 hectares of forest land and high forests, caused huge material damage to Fruska's forests and thus allowed water, air and land disorders to occur, by simply shaking up the land and water flows in new directions, while the plants remained at a minimum to use these resources. So, here, the members of these international conventions have made us "good", which are related to this dissertification topic. The State of Serbia, when it is a member of this Convention, will have reason and the possibility to request compensation from the NATO Pact through its authorities, so that we can resolve all the visible and invisible damage that your friends have done to us. Why am I saying that? Right, these days in Serbia, what circles, stands are organized on how we should accept that our people want and wants to accept that mission as a friendly embrace, that is to say that we approach NATO alliances, and that is to help them and do what kind of NGOs and our translators, who convince citizens that this is a good thing. And today we need to adopt and accept this convention, which is part of them too. Why? Their countries bombed us. The miners are making a big problem about desertification. What's the problem? Well, it's a protein cement factory called Lafarg. It's the French company that bought the factory, the buildings, the machines and everything that was in that giant. They bought everything, but they couldn't buy land or mine. This is one of the problems facing which the state is now silent and not responding, because this problem is linked to the whole region's desertification process on the southern slope of Fruska Gora. When they are finished digging, they are already disrupting the water regimes on the surrounding agricultural land and are doing all this without any compensation of material damage to the state or individual agricultural producers, which are immediate neighbours. Stop such and similar processes of these conventions, for which you stand today. The environmental law provides sustainable management of natural values through planned construction, protection of natural values. With this law, you can do a lot of things, which reduces desertification processes in Serbia. A ten-and-a-half years ago in Vojvodina, a programme was developed on windscreens, aimed at stopping the smallest particles (colloidal) that are most nutritious in the land system. These particles, by force of the wind, were going to be irrevocable from the scene. We foresters wanted it, and today we want to lift those protective windscreens that can stop it. I'm just going to say some indicators that are very important: desertification is relaxation, in our own words. The Law on COMASATION has left the possibility for windscreens to rise and this looks like this: in Vojvodina, noise is below 5% today, and optimal conditions are 14%, i.e. these parameters are calculated by taking 2% of the total area as an optimal percentage per capita, which is 0.16 hectares. Serbia's noise today is 25-27%, and the optimal percentage should be 40%. With this plan, I think of Vojvodina, it is planned to deforest 3,500 hectares annually, i.e. by 2005, another 170,000 hectares should be forested, so that at the end of this project these belts would be represented by 308,000 hectares and then the percentage of 14% of the forest would be fulfilled. Well, those belts aren't maintained and they're cut somewhere, so the overalls aren't very good. The desertification begins when the rainfall is below 300 milliliters per square metre, and the winds blow at 40 meters per second on the mosses. In Vojvodina, it has been recorded that winds blow 100 days a year and that Eol power is very high. I was talking about the smallest particles that apply: humus, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and thus the fertility of such land is lost. I will give an example from the measurement and analysis of professors Dr. Ljubomir Letic, from the University of Shumar, who showed by his research and proved that the wind left such a wasteland in one measured plot for one day in one measured plot, by taking from that orchard 195 tonnes of the smallest particles that were transferred to a new location, the size of the transferred material is measured in cubic meters, 134 cubic metres. Since I'm running out of time, all I have to say is two sentences about migration routes. Migration routes are both in Serbia and in the world to end. What are they breaking up with? Well, they cut off highways, high-speed tracks and all the infrastructure giants. We have the Belgrade-Zagreb highway, the Belgrade-Skoplje highway. Let me tell you, these migration routes used to be used to be deer. Which deer? European deer. They moved around the region and now there are no more European deer in Frusko Gora, and there were sometimes 2,000 of them in the area. I hope the state, or the government, wants to return those deer to Fruska Gora. I, as a forester from Fruster Mountain, will stand up. The status of the endemic and the relic of Europe, it's Pancic's fatigue. We have to keep that Pancic box, reproduce it. In what way? The Czechs have thousands of acres of that Pancic island culture, and we only have it in horticultural gardens. Last comment, the national parks of Serbia must be the rappers of these conventions, and forestry is a wasteland of all these topics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7314	I thank Parliamentarian Vitomir Plužarevic. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important set of laws that this assembly should ratify, i.e. Conventions. All these conventions have only one goal, which is to preserve the environment. Why the conservation of the environment is important and the preservation of flora and fauna, both because of the preservation of flora and fauna, is so important because of ourselves. Of course, it depends on the environment and what life will be like in the environment in which we live, and it depends, too, and what life will be like in the future. Life can be polluted by the environment, and it can be if it's a good environment and it's healthy. Thus, we may also have a painful future if we do not think about the environment in which we live and if we do not guard and respect the environment, but in some way we are in our unconscious business, work and treatment of nature and the environment, endangering it, endangering ourselves. I would like to unite, not to say anything special, but to bring this discussion together in one whole and somehow bring it closer to us, to bring it closer to the citizens of Serbia. Serbia is a country that has a lot of problems with its environment. Rest assured, the minister has a difficult task and would be unfair to me people and individuals if we expected all problems to be solved by the current minister in his term. It's simply impossible for many reasons. Because we as humans have to change ourselves first, we have to change our consciousness, change our behavior, respect for the nature of the environment, that is. to change our relationship of disrespect to the environment in which we live. In order to do so in addition to the change of consciousness, which I think is the most important thing, it takes a lot of money and resources that I am sure Serbia is unable to provide at this time and this budget. Much is expected of this budget, much is expected of this minister in the hope that he can change everything without us trying to change ourselves. Hardly. Serbia today, around 120,000 people suffer from malignant diseases in Serbia. A good part of these malignancies can be just copied or threatened that part of the cause or most of the cause of malignancies is just an unhealthy environment. How do we pollute that? Through drinking water, through the lack of respect for water streams, through, perhaps, ignorance, ignorance, ignorance or neglect of pesticide use, which is very much represented in Serbia, in some ways available to everyone, are cheap, and because of ignorance, the unfavorable amounts are being used, and yet endangers the environment, thus jeopardizing us. Only 30,000,000 people suffer annually from new malignancies in Serbia, and yet, of course, when you move that along with the tragedy that is happening to Serbian citizens, especially in families that have such cases, families that have diseased in their environment, and even more tragically for themselves, you can imagine how much it costs the state of Serbia, of course, by removing the consequences, by trying to treat these people, cost a lot, and because what is important is that we change our consciousness and respect nature, the environment in which we live, to make our life healthier, more comfortable, and certainly cheaper. This country has plenty of places to invest certain funds. I travel every day to Kragujevac - Belgrade. I'll tell you that on that road, Corridor 10, I've noticed something that isn't common in other ways to that extent, but I can see that's where the picture changes. You'll see hundreds of people in orange suits that clean the freeway, and green bags, a huge number of green bags by the freeway. Serbia's roads do it well, but the question is why do it every day. Because we're not going to change our consciousness, we're already very light to open a window, to clean up a piece of space, to clean our car, to shake out a pixel, and to throw out a bag or a glass of yogurt, juice, etc. We don't think, and it's good that a hundred people do it, have their jobs, receive their own income, support their family, but we don't think that this huge number of people who are on a daily routine job collecting our papers, that these people can do something else, and those assets that they invest can be invested in preserving the environment in a different, more comprehensive and healthier way. That's what it says about our consciousness. I would like to say here that in addition to the adoption of this Convention, which is very important, which puts us in a civilized world, which connects us with Europe, which is, of course, a prerequisite in the final line for changing our legislation tomorrow, that we will also adopt this and bring our legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union, which is in general and very important for the country of Serbia. Serbia has a lot of legal solutions that it can work on, but I'm not sure that these legal solutions are exactly applied, either in any case, or those legal solutions are, let me say, soft, quite liberal. I'd like to list some of the things that are happening in Serbia. I'm not sure that civilised Europe can even understand some things and understand. I'm a fisherman. I go fishing very often. I can tell you that what's going on here, and here it is said here, now it says that everything is destroyed by this fishing fund, so it says - explosives, firearms, poisons, anaesthetics, electricity, i.e. alternating currents, artificial sources of light, etc. You know, when it happened about four or five or six years ago, as long as there is, in Sweden when one of our fellow citizens there tried to fish with electricity, when they took him in there, arrested him, they simply couldn't prosecute him because their legislation didn't predict that kind of poaching. Well, then, since they couldn't put him in jail, they took him to psychiatry. That's the right to tell you and it is for psychiatry, but it's a daily case in Serbia. That's how we destroy our fauna, that's how we destroy this fish world, and as long as it reaches this human stupidity, and the punishments are terribly inappropriate, small, mild, they just kind of stimulate people to deal with such actions. You now have a modern way of poaching, which is reflected in the descent of the gas bottle into the water. It's a more modern, senseless way of poaching, and I can tell you that many people support themselves in this way. Penalties, fines are very small. One of my colleagues mentioned that bird smuggling going on. Look out, thousands and thousands of birds are killed to make their tongues a pâté, but I haven't heard that anyone has been convicted of it for 10, 15 or 20 years. Until we change our legislation, then we will have the situation, because the consciousness of a man, an individual, can only be changed through repression, punishment and sanctions. As New Serbia's MP, I also advocate that New Serbia's parliamentary group that those penalties and sanctions are precisely for such an enormous drastic destruction of nature and ecology be drastically reconciled to the damages that nature is inflicted on. What's very important to say is that Serbia also has many dumps. True, that part must be solved by local self-government in local areas. Of course, the ministry must also help with its finances. That is why it is also important to be an integral part of the civilized world, to accept these conventions, to accept tomorrow the harmonisation of laws that will allow a healthy environment, a healthy life, a improvement, to simply build a different future, a healthy future. Today it's very easy to come out here and criticize, there are some people, individuals, I don't say all of them, but someone is willing to criticise if the government makes a proposal here, even if it is, they're willing to criticise and why the water is wet or why the gas is without color, smell and taste. It's for one simple reason why we're having a hard time changing ourselves, having a hard time changing our consciousness, having a hard time changing the way we deal with politics and how we get to know that policy and how we even look at it. We think that this policy – the worse, the better, that it is a policy that will result perhaps at the moment in some option, an individual to get a political point. Of course, we are not aware that we are doing bad things to all of us, doing bad things to our families, future generations in this country, and time will pass. We will wonder tomorrow when we are not messengers, and where time passes, we have done nothing. And so somehow from generation to generation Serbia is getting smaller, more and more poor, and more poor, not to say worse just because we are not ready to do in some joint projects, which should allow us the future, we have a common initiative to do it, and that we have, of course, different opinions on certain things how and how to do it. Today we can criticise Kragujevac, I am Kragujevcan, a large metal complex, an industrial centre and today Kragujevac is the third city by aero pollution in Serbia. We can now press the minister here, so what the minister did, and what you did, so what are you going to do, etc. But the minister didn't build these plants that make up these pollutions, the standards used to be when those factories were built weren't like that, of course, those who are today seeking this high respect for those standards in order to reduce pollution. There were no filters that existed today and there were no many mechanisms that could have made it possible for it to be different. Now, the Kragujevac as an industrial centre has been built since 1945. There are no standards, you have to apply it now, but you're in front of one problem right now. If you order the closure of a company, then of course you have a problem with endangered citizens who are supposed to be working here, receiving personal incomes. Fight for every job, and you don't have the means to pay out of the budget for everyone to respect those high standards and, of course, make one environment more ecologically healthy. So, we have big problems ahead of us. It doesn't matter how we did, whether we inherited them, but we have to solve those problems. So I don't think we should criticise what was and in our time when we were in power, I mean those political groups that were in some previous period, but that common forces, what's healthy, which is good, which promises the future, we support and that we push out to make tomorrow's future and environment in which we live healthier. Finally, I expect that the minister after all of these, and there have been many constructive discussions, will certainly see what his ability is to make our life in Serbia healthier, to initiate a change and application, a more consistent application of certain laws that are in force today, and I mean those laws that this assembly voted for in any period and, of course, initiate and amend certain laws that those people who destroy the environment and our future will sanction in one real and adequate way, financially, of course, if necessary and appropriate prison punishment. I do not expect the minister to do all that we have said today to be able to resolve it, but I am sure that, in order to make a common improvement in a healthier environment, he will do what he can, and I can see that the MPs have made such a contribution. That is why New Serbia's MPs will contribute and vote in favour of this set of laws by supporting the minister and his efforts to make Serbia more beautiful and healthy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7316	I thank the MP Vladan Vukevic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7317	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I would like to say, listening to today's discussions, I have heard about what a civilization's attitude to nature should be, what a civilization's attitude to wild animals, to fish, to birds. It seems to me that a huge, big one should be mentioned, and as things are now, an unsettled problem, and these are stray dogs and cats on our streets in all the cities of Serbia. At first, I have to fence myself and say that maybe it's a little inappropriate to talk about unsettled animals, given that there are a large number of people who don't have a roof over their heads and a large number of unsupervised children, but since the topic is animal and environmental protection, I think this is quite an adequate topic that I'm going to say something about. Gandhi said that the civilizational degree of a nation is being looked at in its relation to animals. I'm not going to comment on this, of course, we're going to recognize ourselves where we are, given that we have a really large number of unsettled animals in cities. As a big fan of animals, from my early childhood to today, I deal individually, personally, as much as I can, taking care of animals. I've never had a hard time in half the night, half the day taking an animal off the street to a vet, a large number of animals in my neighborhood where I live, on my beige hair, sterilizing. It's not just me, it's a lot of people who have feelings for animals. However, such an individual solution will not solve the problem of abandoned stray dogs and cats in Serbia. You are witnessing that every other day you can read in the daily newspaper – the dog bit the child, the dog attacked the man, the old lady, etc. Don't you think we're a little bit guilty of that ourselves? What is the essence of this story, that I wouldn't explain much now, since you meet our residents, our puppies and kittens, who pass by you every day. The point is that there are NGOs in Serbia. These NGOs receive donations from world animal protection organisations. I'll tell you now who these are, except we're probably all familiar with the Brigitte Bardo Foundation, which has not little resources to sterilize dogs and cats in Serbia, especially knowing that we don't have enough resources. We have a British embassy that doesn't finance Belgrade, thinking Belgrade has enough resources to solve this problem of dogs and cats, we have VSP, it's the World Animal Protection Organisation and we have RPA, it's the Royal Animal Protection Association, it's the British. So we win, it's not true that money doesn't get won. Our NGOs, who should worry about solving this big problem in our cities, misdirect that money. Well, let's say, instead of making animal shelters, that money is used for private purposes. I'll tell you that in Serbia, only six cities have animal asylum, which is, of course, unacceptable. The city of Belgrade and the leaders of the City Government are more concerned with closing the Vuk Bojovic Zoo, which, you will all admit, has done something that is truly proud of this city. Vuk Bojovic is a man who deals with animals, who deals with the area in which animals live and in a very human way and indeed, there is absolutely one way in which everyone in the world deals with animals, therefore, and the hygiene conditions and all that is necessary for a normal functioning of the zoo. I can compare our Belgrade Zoo to "Emen", which is one of the best zoos in the Netherlands. Therefore, I think the state should make an effort and address this problem of our fellow citizens. It's dogs and cats, and we don't have to look at it just so it's normal, and I'm happy that the law was passed to punish people who abuse and kill animals. From this pay phone, I will address all those who are harassing animals on the street again, not to do so, because they will bear sanctions and will be punished. That's for sure. If I see anyone, and I see them harassing animals, harassing cats on the street, I'm going to report them, and I hope all people with hearts do the same. They were given to share this city with us, not only Belgrade, but all other cities. So there's a commercial on one radio that says, "Be a man to animals." I hope you all agree that as soon as possible we should commit ourselves to getting some of our own roof over their heads, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7318	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic. The word has Radisa Ilic, and let Rajko Baralić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the time for the SRS parliamentary group is limited, I will make sure to present as soon as possible what I intend to tell Mr. Minister and the public in Serbia. If these conventions concerning the protection of migratory species, as well as the protection of wild flora and fauna were adopted by a case seven years ago and subject to legal sanctions, half of the first DOS government would probably be in prison. Let's just remember the big dirty affair with the smuggling of hundreds of thousands of birds at the time of Dragan Vesenov's ministry. Let us remember many affairs regarding poaching involving individuals from the then executive government. That's not what I'm talking about. The fellow MPs who are just coming from that part of the Vojvodina will speak. As for this first convention, confirming the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, the Karpat area extends to eight countries of Europe, including Serbia, and its eastern part. Within this mass are the mountains Miroc, Deli Jovan, Veljanica, Homolim Mountains, Kučevska Mountains and there are 17 municipalities in this area. The preamble to this convention is said in the first position – Karpati is a unique natural treasure, a reservoir of biodiversity, a source of large rivers, habitats of untouched forests. This raises the question – what is the situation in our part of the Carpathian region when it comes to forests, water, habitats, plant and animal life? In the case of satellite footage, just massive and southern Carpathians in Serbia, so what can we see here? All these stains that are seen here, the gaps in the areas where the forests are and where there are no naked ones are actually degraded areas of the former forests, in translation they are places of clean cutting. Unfortunately, if we started to visit our forests in Serbia, not only in this area of Karpat, the situation would be devastating, without mentioning the fires created on purpose or on purpose, and I will talk about it more about the next convention. What could have been indicated is the definition of the Karpat region in Serbia, i.e. some natural boundaries should have been listed. Let's say the Morava border is in the west, then in the east is the border of Romania, and in the south are the borders of the Kučev Mountains. The graphics I'm going to show you show you can see what is now part of the Karpathic area in Serbia, based on various basics. Let's take the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia and, let's say, an example of industrial deployment. In this part of the Carpathian area, only Bor stands out, the rest is empty. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia and the water springs – this area is extremely rich in water. What's most important, it's characterized by pure unpolluted spring water, where there are still no potential contaminants. I would just like to remind the MPs, when in the previous Parliament's meeting we discussed the return of property to religious communities, namely monasteries and churches, we were just talking about large areas under the forests in this area of Karpat. These are the forests that are now returned to the Ravanica monastery and the Manasi monastery, which are filled with springs of healthy clean and drinking water. Also, in this part of the Carpathian area, one-fifth of Serbia's forests are located right in this area, which is very important. According to the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan, as far as tourism is concerned, this is one important location that is suitable for the development of tourism. Furthermore, as could be said about this convention, I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister regarding Article 10(3) where adequate environmental surveillance of mining technology and practices is mentioned. It turns out that before this convention, we had laws dealing with environmental protection on paper alone, and now that it's moving into serious environmental surveillance, there's just nothing. I also see in Article 14 ð the budget of this Convention is mentioned. It probably refers to a budget that Serbia will charge with 10,000 euros annually, with an additional five million dinars, to be spent on implementing the Convention. In Article 17, we see that it will not be a final sum for next year, as some so-called. the scale of the contribution which will be a future criterion for the contribution to the budget of the Convention. Now I would like to say something about the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats. What I have already mentioned in the commentary of the previous Convention, I would now only expand, as regards the preservation of endangered natural habitats. It is well known that the forests in Serbia and the areas managed by JP "Serbishum" represent both wild flora and fauna habitats. But in what state are the forests in Serbia today? The unfavorables are collapsing, even the entire land units, the entire private plots, despite the existing law. Take, for example, the last fire situation. It's a coincidence somewhere, and they're deliberately challenging somewhere. For what? The Law of the Forests finds holes, that after a possible fire comes clean cuts. This is kind of being abused and we have big cuts, clean cuts across Serbia. It's just that it's hard to rebuild the forest later. For the sake of illustration, I want to remind you, the time of fertilization of a single noise substance is 120 years. So four or five generations of foresters will work to build and build such a substance. Also, I would ask the minister, as far as Serbia's flora is concerned, is it true that the following species have disappeared in Serbia: black vulture, white canoe, beard eagle, tepek, pelican, gray crane, blue duck, otter, small ball. I think the minister shares the view that it is necessary to act preventively to preserve certain plant and animal species, instead of having some kind come down to literally two or three trees or 10 copies of green plants, a couple of birds, etc. And that's the only time he's responding. As far as the flora in Serbia is concerned, I would just like to make some comments, and my colleague, Plužarevic, has already said about Pancic's fatigue, that both Czechs and Austrians and Germans care more about it than we do. As far as plant species are concerned, I'd just like to mention the corilus column, and it's protected, otherwise I didn't find it on the species list. Also, I'd like to mention the type of maple macroacer, monospeculanum, braiding sormous tormunalis and there's one very rare green plant of anemone hepatics, etc. Now let's not count for time. What I would say in article 13. Conventions on the conservation of migrant species of wild animals, perhaps it's a little absurd, resolving issues of dispute between the parties to the signatories of this Convention, and when the conflict of a particular country around, say, a bird of the village, and when they can't solve it, do you know where they go to settle or stand trial? To The Hague. Well, let's say, even for the sake of gender and for the sake of property, someone could end up in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7320	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7321	My colleague Plužarević said nicely that the deer should return to Fruska Gora. It's a beautiful sight. Wherever there's a deer, there's at least 50 shirts. It's an even nicer sight. Mr. Minister, the SPS, as a concept that has no alternative, as a concept that is supersedeological and supersede, will support all this that is the subject of this debate, because it exceeds political struggle, these are universal things. In that sense, Mr Miletic Mihajlovic, the authorised representative of the SPS, pleaded here and there is no dispute about it. I use your presence to ask – before Golia was declared a park of nature, the Institute of Potatoes in Guca there built significant capacities, capacities for the production of seed potatoes. That's what he invested big financial resources in. Then, in a law-based way, Golia was declared a park of nature and the Institute of Potatoes in Guca was disabled to continue to perform the basic work in this space. I understand that, and they understand that. So it's a general interest, but the potato institute shouldn't have any damage to it. I ask if it is possible to learn this problem and whether the Institute of Potatoes, as a very important institution in the field of science and agriculture in our country, can receive the necessary compensation regarding this, since we do not dispute, do not God forbid that Goliath should not be a park of nature, but neither should the Institute of Potatoes... Not to burden you with that. Please, if possible, let me get an answer to this question I just asked you. The next thing, Mr. Plužarevic also mentioned, in Fruska Gora. So Lafarg exploited a laser within the Frushko Gora National Park. I've talked about it ten times here. So he's breaking three laws. He doesn't pay anything because he's pulling a laser out of the belly of the earth. It also makes "Kretana" Jelen Do, that's what people at Popovac do, that's what those who fill the water in Bukovica Banja and elsewhere do. So, I remind you of the recognition of your current colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, six years ago, that the state loses 350m euros annually. So once again I ask -- is it possible for these things to change, is it possible for those who have privatised what I'm talking about, the state, based on the Law on concessions, to trust this and to pay for it to the state and then to do what we can from those funds? The next question, I don't have a lot of time, is there a huge threat to the banks of all rivers by completely, without any control, without law and without any financial compensation exploiting the gravel? The stream of rivers is changing, agricultural land is under threat, enormous cabadias are rich in Serbia, and in this respect almost nothing seems to be. So that's a few questions that are very important. In the end, I would like to thank my colleague, Milic Vojić-Markovic, who mentioned the deliblatic sand. The former state's youngsters snuck up on the deliblat sands of 4,500 hectares, in Serbia nearly 28,000 ha. If we draw from this concept the ideology of foresting territory in this way, it is desirable and now, if there is a concept that someone can finance, to gather young people and to forest 11,000 ha annually on the cave, 8 thousand on Ibra, 4,500 on the deliblat sand. It's almost impossible to imagine today for a little bit of money. I suggest you think about that idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7322	The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7323	Dear People's MPs, I appeal to members 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, namely, more to Rule 226 where it is said that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the present Mr. Minister. I have to say one impression, although I couldn't participate in this session with full capacity today, that we have a minister who behaves as an expert, unlike his predecessor, who proved himself to be a politician, although he was supposed to be a top-notch lawyer, he proved here that he was rightly weak and that he deals exclusively with politics. But it doesn't matter. Namely, I'd like to ask two questions. Today we are attending an interesting debate, which is interesting for citizens as well. We are discussing five conventions, agreements, international instruments that need to be ratified and applied. My first question is, it is known that of the international instruments, which are conventions, pacts, agreements, declarations, etc., there are 42 that treat this area – how many have we ratified these conventions so far? That's number one. The second question is – why today do we approach ratification of this United Nations Convention in the fight against desertification, when it was adopted in Paris in 1994 and applied since 1996? Next, I'm not going to list the other instruments we're discussing here today. Why are they only today and why is such a limited package adopted? Aren't the other 42 conventions and contracts interesting to us: the ozone wrapper, that I'm not talking about water, I'm not going to keep counting. So that's my question. I'm afraid there's another utilitarian reason, something that imposes, something that someone has convinced you that you have to, to advertise at the next conference. You now have a conference here, and have you adopted and ratified a convention on access to information in the judiciary and on public participation in decision-making on environmental issues? That's next. You're not. Why didn't you? That's what that conference brought, and you hold that conference. I don't understand this selective choice of conventions that you occasionally offer us and on a spoon. I'd like an answer from you. Number two, one completely practical question. Today's morning daily reported that nuclear waste was imported and stored in a mine in one city in Serbia, I will not name it, and that a ban on the ministry or inspections is prohibiting further storage of this harmful waste. One of his colleagues spoke of an increase in cancer in our country. We have a constant growth in cancer. Now I ask, is it true what the Danish Parliament also said, that waste has been imported into Serbia from a long time ago, that the Socialist MP, that I am not talking about which one raised the issue and asked that it is not further done? So, is nuclear waste imported? Regarding this question, is the decision on the classification of goods on the forms of imports and exports, which entered into force on 18 August 2005, where a new tariff code was introduced, so I quote it because of the minutes – 3006800000 and the term is 'Waste and Pharmaceutical Products'. In 2005, the government adopted this decision. This decision allows the import of dangerous medical waste. If this item is analysed in more detail, and I warn that the Criminal Code, Article 266, prohibits the introduction of dangerous substances into our country and, on the other hand, the Basel Convention obliges us that you cannot import into the country unless you have the means to destroy it. Please make a specific clear answer. Yes, it is, I do not want to approach this issue socially in this House. And in 1989, some remember, and some don't, a question was raised by one of my colleagues from the interior, whether it was increased, whether it was, the amount of radioactivity in Belgrade and in some cities in the interior, so whether or not it was, it was a little bit, so it's not a big deal. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7324	I thank the People's Messenger Pai Momchilov. The word has a folk MP Milan Škrbić and be prepared Zeljko Vasiljevic, two minutes only.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7325	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, within the framework of a single review of the proposed agenda and within the 10-14 point and due to the limited time, as well as my colleagues, I will base myself on points 13 and 14 on confirming the Fleet and Fauna Convention with a natural habitat and the preservation of migratory species, and I will insert some other points. Namely, this convention on the preservation of European wild flora and fauna is of great importance, and we all found that in the discussion. In fact, Europe affects other continents as well. This is what no one has said today, but it is very important and in recent years we have witnessed dramatic events, more precisely, changes in the natural resources of all things, and the mentioned climate opportunities are unfortunately globally character and concern the whole of everything in general and affect all segments of human life. We are witnessing dramatic changes in many parts of the world and almost all continents and these changes are particularly visible in areas of meteorology, hydrology, geology, tectonics and many others, unfortunately, areas where there is no better situation. Science is talking about the process that took hold and we realized that if something serious doesn't change on nature's protection plan, we'll be late tomorrow. We need to prevent many negative tendencies in our natural environment. And to start with our environment, and one of the most important jobs, to call them that, is to stop the aforementioned warming, because the negative tendencies of that warming are felt every day. Frequent climatic tragic phenomena are not random. They are closely linked to the negative and destructive functioning of man in nature, because it's always the man that we have to go from him, I think that's what the doctor in Raska explained well. The ultimate obligation of the human race is because of ourselves and future generations. What I have put forward so far should be done, and it is also related to the Kyoto Agreement, and I will remind you that the agreement has not been signed by the citizens of Serbia so far by America, which is 25% of the total contaminant, according to the data that can be found. We're wondering why she didn't sign it. Serbia has to sign all agreements and conventions and agreements at all costs, but will we be able to apply them when we adopt them? That's why I stressed, because sometimes we're too busy to adopt some conventions and maybe we haven't made any good preparations to apply what we adopt. Now I'd like to stick to the 14th item of the agenda, which is, to preserve migration species and I'm the only speaker to mention the Gornja Podunov reservation so far. I come from Apatin, which is also a wonderful neighborhood, and I must say that there are 250 different species of birds in the Upper Danube, which are migrant, which is with a permanent habitat, and to note that in Serbia, in fact, there are 74% of the total population of Europe's birds with a permanent habitat or migratory species in Serbia's territory, and most of all in Vojvodina. We were just talking about preserving flora and fauna, and it's a little easier to talk about than this subject. Namely, nature surrounds us directly and certainly it is visible, so it is easier to talk about it, and the birds are migrant, the hour is not there, and it is difficult to follow all the events related to them. The man has made an effort, unfortunately, to take a negative role in nature around him, because he has subjected everything to his needs without taking care of tomorrow. There is no need for some major scientific studies, the demoted natural environment is visible at every step. An example works, a man in his surroundings doesn't want mosquitoes, which is why he destroys them spiritually. The last year has shown that a large number of these insects have been destroyed, on the one hand the man is satisfied, and on the other hand we have lost one chain of lice, no larvae, and they are the first and the basics in the food chain for the younger fish. Of course, this is not the end of the story, the loss of a link in the jitology chain and the positive function of the natural continent. These are actually regular issues, and later it becomes actually a global problem. Everyone looks at their environment in which they live to adapt to themselves, on the one hand, does something and destroys and later becomes a major global problem. All this talk about nature fighting for itself isn't so important. Negative examples of past times, someone touched it earlier in connection with the murder and murder of those birds, right in the area where I come from, and that's the upper Podunavlje and the surroundings of Somboro, which my colleague may later perhaps explain a little better. I think we have unnecessarily ruined our reputation in the environment and in Europe. It's just a relatively simple question. In fact, often inspections and customs services are not understood in bird fauna and illegal trade takes place without special difficulties. It is necessary to work on the training of personnel of those who will recognize such illegal activities. We must, unfortunately, realize that there is still a well-organised bird mafia in Serbia that is highly developed across the country. In Serbia, where the birds were killed, no one in power has ever been publicly shaken or crushed. The birds that were protected were killed. After several recorded cases of mass killing of birds, unrecorded in the history of mankind, and this is about our terrain, everything is quickly covered up. There's no way to get that information into the media, record it, and talk more about it. At least until now. Some have made every effort to cover it up and not talk about these activities at all. And why do you keep silent those who are in charge of tracking and preserving this matter? Even from the governing structures so far, it has been heard that it is exaggerated with these stories and figures, especially from the province's structures of government. I don't want to name some people who are famous politicians right now, but there are clues that they were defending this attitude and it's simply not true that there is no great pestilence for certain reasons. Some things remain above interest and obligation, and all is recorded in some international organisations, fortunately. One of these was followed, I think it's called a CITES organization, from which we can get this data. Here I am, due to limited time and there will be two minutes for Vasiljevic. It is important to note because of Serbian citizens that this smuggling business is so profitable that it compares to crime and drug trafficking, heroin; comparison with kilograms of some kind of birds with a kilo of cocaine, for example, trained hawks that are smuggled into the Arab market reach the price of up to 60,000 euros. That's right. In Serbia, over a million birds of various species are slaughtered. From exotic migrants to those who are not and over half of these birds are heels and celebrations. Someone mentioned earlier, I have to say, some pâtés from the tongue of the Nightingale. Imagine, this is the exact data, for 50 grams of pate from the famous languages, 500 celebrations should be killed, and in Europe's market in exclusive restaurants 50 grams and pastures reach a price of up to 500 euros. That's tragic. It all starts from here, from our field, and there's no other reaction. I'd say there's a criminal association in these affairs, you know who orders, who listens and who executes. It's a branched network that we have to get on the road, it's big money, and it's sad that no one has responded before, and even today some agencies in their commercials, electronic or printed, form and publish that they provide services of this kind. We'd have a lot to talk about, like all MPs, but I have to cut back on time. It seems to me that the staff of government, customs and some resolute ministers, either from the province or the Republic, has been recorded. I'm saying this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about big money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7326	The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the time I have, I would like to focus my discussion on only two subjects, or two aspects. The first aspect is that the importance of these five protocols that we need to sign, in addition to being important for the preservation of the environment and for human health, is also important for the economic aspect. Given that Serbia in its economic development has agriculture as a fundamental aspect of the country's economic development, conservation of the environment is necessary for, in particular, that part of agricultural production related to healthy food. That's why I'd like to point out one fact that preserving the environment is not enough to leave it to a single ministry. In this fight for a healthier environment should be included, above all, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry, because if we do not preserve a healthy environment, as a fundamental economic aspect, nothing from Serbia as a country that will produce healthy food. Secondly, given the times, I would like to say that we, as the Association of Military Disabilities, mean that people who died in these wars, saw the preservation of the environment, so in April we volunteered to join, the truth with a modest number of people, about 50 wartime disabled from the 1990s, an action organised by the Public Enterprise of the "Serbian" in Serbia's shaming. We have made our modest contribution, but we do not think that the media has accompanied it enough, and this could be an incentive for other citizens and other organisations that could in this way provide a good example and contribute to the preservation of a healthy environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-04-0.u7328	I thank the MPs, thank Mr. Minister and his associates. We continue this agenda on Monday at 10:00 p.m. There are eight other debaters. The first on Monday will be the MP, Mrs. Radica Jocic.
