ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 133 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is established that there are 97 MPs present in the hall, or more than one third, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that no MP has reported that he has been prevented from attending the session. You have received the resignations of MPs from Vladita Jankovic, Vuk Antonijevic, Nenad Jankovic and Miodrag Djidić as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the consideration of these resignations. The Committee has established that the application of the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended, before the time was up for which they were elected, to the MPs: Vladiti Jankovic and Vuk Antonijevic, elected from the Electoral List DSS - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and Nenada Jankovic and Miodrag Djidić, elected from the Electoral List DS - Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. I am giving a 30-minute break to hold meetings between the Administrative Board and the Republic Election Commission. The work continues at 12.40 hours. I'd like to inform you that the board of directors is in the blue lounge. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the conditions have been met, I suggest that I now establish a mandate for Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with the MPs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Nikola Lazic and Marko Jaksic, elected by the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srbija-Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and Milan Stanimirovic and Slavoljub Stajkovic, elected from the Democratic Party's election list -- Boris Tadic. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Niko Lazić, Marko Jaksic, Milan Stanimirovic and Slavoljub Stajkovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Friday, 8 June 2007, so within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as by day and time laid down in Article 85(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts from the agenda that, in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, 122 MPs were appointed. The first session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 22 and 23 May 2007, and the Second Sessions of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2007, held on 25, 28 and 29 May 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to the minutes of these sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 22 and 23 May 2007. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, v - one, the abstentions were not, there was no 5 vote, of a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 22 and 23 May 2007. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 25, 28 and 29 May 2007. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 133, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 5, out of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 25, 28 and 29 May 2007. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was called upon by 122 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with an established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following was set: Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was submitted by 122 MPs; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, submitted by 122 MPs; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by 122 Members of Parliament; 4. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group; the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the G17 plusi Parliamentary Group of the Serbian Radical Party; 5. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 135, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 6, of a total of 141 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have reported to intervene under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you, Mr. Dulic, have in the meantime committed a second offense. I was showing the Rules of Procedure, and I said loudly that I wanted to speak to the Rules of Procedure, and you ignored it and put it on the agenda vote. It's simply not acceptable and it's really about time, Mr. Dulic, to study the Rules of Procedure. Ever since you said publicly, on one television, you don't know the Rules of Procedure, it's been ten days and I thought you took this break in Parliament's work just to learn the Rules of Procedure. I see you didn't use this time wisely. The session you have scheduled for today, you have also made an absolutely contrary appointment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MPs only yesterday after the assembly’s hours, or congregation services, had a meeting and material for today’s session, which you scheduled in 12 hours. It's inadmissible, and as much as you're in a hurry, Mr. Dulic, you should take care of the Rules of Procedure. You should have thought about that haste for those three months when you didn't think of establishing the National Assembly. You should've thought about the day we drew your attention that she was a previous session, scheduled for May 30th, scheduled for the contrary to Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. And then the MPs of the congregation's majority claimed that we who challenged the agenda at the time were wrong and that the session was absolutely scheduled in accordance with both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Today, these same MPs represent the government, or the assembly majority, as representatives of the promoters. I don't know what happened in the meantime. You, Mr. Dulic, have injured the dignity of the National Assembly because you said publicly that you are asking the professional public in Serbia to let you know if you have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dulic, you have a secretary, two deputy secretaries, all graduate lawyers, and in this House there are at least 50 MPs who are lawyers. It's amazing that all these opinions aren't enough, so you waited for Momcilo Grubač, an excellent lawyer, to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I suggest you, I see that it has been three minutes, allow another 10 seconds, that every time we intervene and warn that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you, well, call a referendum and take a break in the work of the Assembly, that the citizens will be told whether you have hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2023	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, please, and the People's Messenger Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's the last time we try to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, to fight that the Assembly is working under the Constitution and the laws, that the Assembly is working in the Rules of Procedure and that the Assembly is not a servant of the majority who rules Serbia. It is enough for us that the executive power we must endure, we do not have to endure the behaviour of the president of the National Assembly and the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly, who treats us as if we are the hostages of the executive authority that rules Serbia. Mr. President, you interrupted the last session and gave an explanation, presented yourself as some sort of great legalist and Democrats, you said that you too doubted whether this meeting was scheduled in accordance with the Constitution, whether the agenda was in accordance with the Constitutional Law. You spoke to the government and asked for an opinion, and that session was suspended. The government has withdrawn the laws and withdrawn its representative in the Serbian Parliament. It bothered you that he was in JUL. You have scheduled us within the deadline prescribed by the Rules of Procedure a new meeting. There is no rational explanation for this shorter deadline, and then you made a new mistake, because the agenda was not made up in accordance with the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution. This is only half the agenda, scheduled for the first session after the government's election. It is not enough to make only two aesthetics and one very important change in three laws regarding what should be on the agenda. You're proposing some kind of change to the Civil Protection Act, the right of citizens to be informed, but you're not proposing to us today. At today's meeting, we must elect the Protector of Citizens, his deputies, the person responsible for monitoring the exercise of citizens' right to information and his deputies, the Governor of the National Bank and the authorities of the State Auditing Institution. That agenda has to be complete. These amendments and additions to the law not only harmonize with the Constitution, but also with your desires and aspirations, with your incompetence. You are now predicting a milder condition for choosing a person to function, a milder professional condition than it was for this government, and some seven-year term, for which the Assembly in the previous council found necessary to deal with a particular job, in order for the Assembly to entrust him with the function, you are reducing it to five years, because the person you seem to have intended to choose on this function does not meet the condition that he has seven years of training in the profession. Let's see now whether representatives of other parliamentary groups will enter the fight for the legitimacy and legality of the National Assembly. Will they now enter the battle for the agenda prescribed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution or will they be dealt exclusively with by individual representatives of the former regimes now in power? If Balinovac, as Secretary of State, was a problem for the National Assembly, how is it that you do not have a problem with other members of the JUL who are now even in positions but couples with ministerial functions. How come you don't mind? How is that not a reason for obstruction now, until the minds of the democratic majority are called upon? We warn you, one day we will have a Constitutional Court, one day there will be democracy in Serbia, one day the constitutional court will have the opportunity to assess the constitutionality of all acts taken by the National Assembly, the law, decisions, regulations. One day, the Constitutional Court will assess whether this session is in accordance with the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution. We're telling you it's not. We're telling you not to play. If you suspected the constitutionality of last session, you cannot now pretend that this session is in accordance with the Constitution, and nothing has changed. We objected to you that the first session must be chosen by the Citizens' Protector, to choose a person who cares about the right of citizens to be informed, to choose the authorities of the State Auditory Institution. You offer us a member of the law, by two or three members, to whom I repeat, cosmetically bring the law to the Constitution, as if at this hour it were very important. It is very important at this time that these people be chosen in accordance with the Constitution, and the law will be brought in by you, one way or another, in this congregation sooner or later. At the same time, Mr. President, how could you not think of discussing a report by the Commission of the Government of Serbia to conduct negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija in Vienna? From Vienna to this day, there are at least five other world cities where decisions have been made on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. What awaits the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why does it not report on how far it has arrived? What's waiting for us? What's it gonna be? What did you represent? What are you going to represent? Why are you running away from the adoption of a resolution calling for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija? So that you might say - we are not bound by the Resolution of the previous convocation, because it had a different majority. I think it is immoral to start any session without discussing Kosovo and Metohija. If you ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they would ask you to also discuss the arrest of General Tolimir. Well, let's see, if he's already been arrested, where he's been arrested, and if he's arrested in Belgrade, as he is, why are you hiding it from the citizens of Serbia. If you took over, under point 3, the obligation to extradite Serbian citizens to The Hague, why didn't you tell us, yes, we arrested General Tolimir in Belgrade, we accidentally met him in an apartment he hadn't left in a year and delivered him to The Hague? Then rub your hands and rejoice and rejoice and announce that this man, this living grave, was the only condition for us to become a member of the European Union. In this debate, we would like to remind one of your fellow members of the ruling majority, who is figuratively expressing himself on the appearance and health of Mr Tolimir, so he says, you know, for his age, he looks extraordinary. I told some in my last session that they were dogs. Now, I'm getting better, so I'm not gonna say that until I call him by his name and last name. I urge you to show a little more humanity towards the people who have defended us, to the people they have accused because they are Serbs and because they are generals, to the people who are not convicted. Any one of you can be charged, but that won't be a reason for me talking to him like he doesn't exist anymore. Even if you're convicted by some authority, if I'm convinced you're not guilty, you'll still be honest people to me. Or would you say that none of those whom Milosevic condemned were a righteous man? Since you can't say that, then I can't even say for DOS that none of those convicted by DOS are decent men. Let us make clear with ourselves who is righteous and who is not, but indeed the righteous is the one who is not condemned. That's what I'm telling you right now, if you don't care about humanity. So, Mr. President, you've fallen into the trap of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, you're scheduled to hold night sessions, in unworkable days, for 24 hours before the session, and you're acting the same way as all of the previous servants of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who sat in that seat. I warn you, the fate they have experienced is waiting for you. Serbia still doesn't remember any president of the assembly as a Democrats. There, it could be said of Predrag Markovic that he once approached what could be called the Democratic President of the Assembly in Serbia, but when the government came at him, he completely lost his compass. Looks like you didn't take that compass in your hand the day you were elected president. Mr. President, this session is not your honor. We will also use this session to point out to you everything that has been wrong in Serbia since you and the President of the Assembly, and you just keep going your way. It's our job to point to your mistakes, your job would be not to make mistakes, but who can prove it to you when you're 31 years old and you're already the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2025	The Messenger of the people, Ivica Dacic, appeared by the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the people, Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2026	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, we referred to these same questions at the last session of the National Assembly, and that is the problem of disrespecting the constitutional law, which you all voted for here, those who were then in Parliament. Turns out we were right when we insisted on it. The president of the National Assembly saw that, and there was a change of agenda. The question arises, what were the reasons for putting on the agenda of the law that were at the last session, and then they were put in an emergency procedure? You can see there was no reason for an emergency procedure, because they're not on the agenda today. Also, a lustration will likely take place within the government of the Republic of Serbia, as you predict that the new agenda with these points does not explain Zoran Balinovac. Then tell it nicely to the MPs here. Also, the Democratic Party asked, when it addressed the National Assembly and all parliamentary groups, for Milena Milosevic to be urgently elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She had two reasons why she wanted it to be right away. The first was to consider a report by the State Negotiating Team on Kosovo and Metohija, which is not on the agenda again today. The second reason was to end the unconstitutional financing of the Republic of Serbia. The budget system law, too, is not on the agenda. G17 Plus has also asked to amend the Budgetary System Act, and today you are proposing a completely different agenda. As you know, the Constitutional Law stipulates that, during the first session after the government's election, the selection of the persons mentioned there will be carried out. Here on the agenda is not the choice of those persons, not on the agenda or the choice of governor of the NBS. A moment ago, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, Jelasic was rejected as a candidate for governor. Representative G17 Plus didn't come to that session, doing obstruction. Ladies and gentlemen who make up the parliamentary majority, please tell the citizens of Serbia whether you have a parliamentary majority or not. In the first month of your power, you have come to obstruct each other. You don't have candidates today because you don't have a deal. Just because you don't have a deal doesn't mean you can break the Constitution and constitutional law. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed not on the basis of an agreement, but on the basis of orders to form it. This is no reason not to respect the Constitutional Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. ) In line with this, I really think it would be good if this agenda, since you are the proposings of the agenda, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously withdrawing from Parliament, because they are not even authorised to propose these points of the agenda, complementing what must be complemented, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, which is the choice of the Commissioner for Information, is the choice of the State Auditing Institution, that is the choice of governor and that is the choice of the Constitutional Court. You had to put on a session today of the Constitutional Court judges. (President: Time. We started the session last time, which was later interrupted. Ladies and gentlemen, your Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic has drawn attention to the MPs that they will have to work all summer because we have lost time. Who are we wasting our time here? Ten days you've given a break in Parliament. Are you wasting your time on us? I suggest you get the opposition out of Parliament. Even if you get the opposition out of Parliament, you can't make a deal with yourself. That's the problem, because you're incompatible, and someone put you together. Is it your opposition's fault that you didn't run for governor for Radovan Jelasic? Have the G17 Plus come out and say why they didn't come down to the Finance Committee's session. Are they government or opposition? Who today in this Serbia is ruling, ladies and gentlemen? So, as far as that goes, there's no reason for us to start a session where there's no part of the agenda provided for by the Constitutional Law. Mr. President, I suggest you do that, too, so you won't be in a situation where at 21 o'clock tonight we interrupt the session again and continue in ten days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2027	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Gojko Radic, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2028	Article 226. I come from Subotica, and there is again a robbery of social property or property of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2029	Excuse me, Mr. Radic, all you have to do is tell which member you're answering.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2030	In accordance with Article 226. I ask for an explanation from both the president of the National Assembly and the Ministers or the Government, after the contract was signed by the Serbian Government's Property Directorate. An unprecedented robbery of the property of the Republic of Serbia, where one business space, which was purchased in privatisation and paid 30 million dinars, was made in exchange for seven business spaces in the strict centre of Subotica. To better understand the MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to bring this move a little closer to them, it's like changing the space of the "Russian Emperor" for some space on Swan's collapsing hill. That's pretty much it. But it's only worth this one business space in the center of Subotica, located on Boris Kidrich Street. 2. In order to bring this situation closer to you, I would like to say that the new owner, who exchanged these premises and received 7 spaces for 1, has awarded a contract to a new employer who is leased in the business area, asking him for a rent of 11,000 euros plus VAT. When we calculate a rent in 70 days for only one-time space, he pays off the sum he bought at the auction of the company "Minerva". The government may not have known about these values, perhaps these G17 experts at the IRS were well-accounted for the same values, but when we look at where the ceiling surfaces count, they could then figure out what the roof surface is, so to say, so many squares. If we know that Korzo's business premises in Subotica can't be leased without bids, not sold without bids, then it's obvious that there's been a lot of people here, legal persons, that it's organized crime and robbery. We ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to annul this contract, to declare it legally void, to ask the Republic Prosecutor for organised crime to initiate proceedings against the persons who participated in the full contract, and I call on the President of the Assembly, as from Subotica, because his party controls the property company in Subotica, the Directorate for the Construction of Subotica, to review this, if they did not, but I think that they were not in the government at the time, is now a new government, I call on him, meaning by his influence to help us declare this contract void. You can't convince any Subotian that these business spaces and this object that's been changed have this value. Let me explain, just one facility located in Boris Kidric is worth twice as much as the "Minerve" facility that was exchanged for these 7 properties of the Republic of Serbia. As the SRS Municipal Committee in Subotica, we will invite the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Property Directorate of Serbia, the Privatisation Agency, the Republic Prosecutor for Organized Crime, the district attorney in Subotica, to initiate the procedure for all these contracts to be reviewed and that all persons involved are held accountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2031	Thank you. Do you want your request to be asked in the form of a parliamentary question, Mr. Radic? (Yes) I ask professional services to write this down in the form of a parliamentary question. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Nikola Žutic. I read to you in order -- Dragan Todorovic, Vladan Batic, Bojan Milovanovic, Dusan Bajatovic. It's in the order of registration. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2032	I warn the president and vice-presidents of the National Assembly on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's about Article 167. The Rules of Procedure which regulate the agenda of the extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I'm speaking to the proposers of these three laws. So, for the first law, the representative is Mrs Nada Kulundzija, for the second law, MP Suzana Grubjesic, and for the third - national MP Milos Aligrudic. What's this about? Article 167. The Rules of Procedure do not allow this interpretation which you resorted to when you formed the agenda. Why? Because this interpretation of you is falling short of something written in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is Article 5. Just to remind you, Article 5(1) says that in the first session, in accordance with the new constitution, the Law governing the Protector of Citizens and the Law on the exercise of citizens' right to notification will be agreed. So, today on the agenda can't be this third law, because the Law on the State Auditing Institution is not provided for in Article 5. Constitutional law, but is scheduled to make a choice at today's session. What does that mean? This means that the majority who adopted the Constitution, confirmed by the citizens, concluded that no harmonisation of the Law on the State Auditing Institution with the new constitution was necessary, for the simple reason that, when Rade Obradovic explained the law, the law had no constitutional basis at the time. And those National Assembly and citizens in the referendum said that the Law on the State Audit Institute is acceptable and that there is no need to change at the first stage, because what you are proposing is not a compliance with the Constitution. You're just changing one of the conditions for selecting some people who would work in that institution, reducing seven years of work experience to five years. It's not a compliance with the Constitution. There is no obligation to comply with the constitutional law, and, legally-technically, what you offer is not to agree with the Constitution but to try to change these conditions and adapt them to some potential personnel who would come to that place. So, Article 169. The Rules of Procedure have its formal significance, which says that those seeking an emergency session are establishing the agenda and are working on that agenda. However, the Constitutional Law is a higher legal act than the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and it must be respected. At this session, we can't agree...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2033	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2034	Mr. Dulic, I expected that for you as president who doesn't really understand these things this would be educational, but obviously you don't need any experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2035	Thank you. Nikola Zutic, then MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I am looking for an answer to this. If you don't give an answer, I'm asking the Parliament in voting day to make a statement on this. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2036	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, I request a notice from the competent ministers regarding the arrest of Serbs from Serbian countries, from Slavonia, Bosnia, to Domicillary Serbia. The disturbance over Kosovo and Metohija has already gone to an acute stage. The charges against the Serbian people and the state have already become natural and normal, and even those on the genocide of the entire Serbian people and the state. To all the challenges and accusations of the surrounding and wider geographical region, the Serbian state is wisely silent and gangian accepts all charges of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for a fabricated genocide against the former brotherly peoples. Due to such difficult, constructed accusations, at least the Assembly could also meet, a reasoned discussion of the MPs, to adopt a declaration on the protection of the Serbian state and people, on the protection of the fundamental national rights of Serbs and loyal citizens of Serbia. Namely, heavy accusations of the genocide of the state and the people are being brought on Serbia's weak shoulders. We have barely defended ourselves from the baseless indictment of the Muslim-Croatian Federation for its genocide, and we are already threatened with the realization of Croatia's indictment against Serbia. It is astounding to see the Serbian state perform completely defensively in the event of charges by the genocide state of Croatia and Hamburg Ka und Ka formations of Bosnia and Herzegovina against Serbia. According to these charges, Serbs are a genocide nation to be wiped off the map of Europe. It would be all right if Serbs were not the people most affected by genocide during the 20th century. It's all, it's simple, it's amazing. It is scandalous that the former governments and presidents of Serbia have so far failed to launch countersuits against Croatia and the Muslim-Croatian part of BiH. The latest court of justice's ruling in The Hague over Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against Serbia has brought forward a series of questions about the irresponsible and shameful behaviour of the Serbian state towards Serbs, especially according to the Krajina Serbs since 1992. It is a historic opportunity to finally condemn all crimes of genocide against the Serb people who have long been hidden and minimised. From an international point of view, the crimes of genocide do not go out of date. It is high time for the Serbian state, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to finally launch a series of charges against the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the crimes of genocide against the Serb people throughout the 20th century, which are hidden from both the monarchic and the communist Yugoslavia. Such processes could have been initiated in 1990, following the collapse of the socialist system of Joseph Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2037	Time, Mr. Yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2038	What is his brotherhood and unity without Serbs? Due to the achievement of the brotherhood between smugglers and murderers, he has completely amnested the crimes of genocide against Serbs. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party MPs delivered a declaration to all MPs on the conviction of all crimes committed on the territory of the former SFRY, with it being adopted at the first next session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2039	Mr. Yellow, I beg you, since you have called for Article 226. Rules of Procedure, we're going to refer this matter to the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2040	All I wanted was information on how many Serbs were killed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2041	Thank you. I ask the professional service to place, in addition to this parliamentary question, in the day for the vote and violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Krasic. Dragan Todorovic has a word, then a National MP, Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I advertise Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, and I draw your attention that, as President of the Assembly, whenever a violation occurs and there is an abuse of law, you point to it and draw attention, especially when it comes to the City Assembly of Belgrade. Because according to the Belgrade City Assembly's Rules of Procedure, among other things, an invitation to the Assembly's session, with a proposal for agenda and material, is required to be delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you, President of the Serbian Parliament, that at the 17th session of the Belgrade City Assembly, a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Statute of the Belgrade City Assembly, that the Democratic Party has not changed its functioning since it came to power. How you stole when you passed the Labour Act, when your MP, Novakovic, from Thessaloniki, voted and how you did it in Bodrum, you continue to do it today. They set up the president of the Belgrade City Assembly to resign. Be careful, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac is showing up again. You remember, they resigned him, and that's the MP who voted for himself as a minister and then ran to resign. So they set up Belgrade City Assembly President Dragan Sutanovac's resignation and he found the resignation at the session, although the resignation did not go to the Belgrade City Assembly's Administrative Board. For you, it is nothing, what it is, so the Rules of Procedure, so the law, why do you keep the law and the Rules of Procedure as drunk as it is. Just to get close to your DS team, Mr. President, you don't need reports from the Administrative Committee in the Assembly at all in the future. Simply, the MP sends a resignation, you take that resignation, inform the Assembly about it, and finish the job, the procedure completed. Why go to the board of directors in the first place? That's the way you work. There's nothing you can do about it in a manner prescribed by law, Rules of Procedure. That explains your character. You're always looking for something to fly, and everything in order, apparently, to be honest. You have enjoyed this devising since 1994, but you do not have a single moment to comply with this parole. On the contrary, they differ greatly from that. Mr. President, as President of the Assembly, you should, especially as a member of the Democratic Party, demand complete material, because not only has the Rules of Procedure been broken, but your coalition potential, or capacity, as you like to say, and your relationship with your coalition partner is being expressed. I don't mind, and I can see that they're all "red ears" here, so you probably took off their hooligans. When this came to the Administrative Board, of course, I didn't want to consider a report like this, because it's against the Rules of Procedure and it can't be absolved in this way by breaking the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party came out and other representatives of the Democratic Party. Be careful now what limits your hypocrisy goes to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2043	Just a second, Mr. Todorovic. Of course, I'll let you finish, just so you know you've been talking for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2044	I'm saying this because of your coalition partner. Be careful, they adopt a report under which the procedure is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, but say the president of the Belgrade City Assembly has broken the Rules of Procedure. This is what it says about you and about them, how you have relations and what they agree to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2045	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was reported by MP Vladan Batic, then MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ten days ago, we gave our best warning of a violation of the constitutional law provisions. All day, Mr. President, we've been trying, well-meaningly, to show you that this is not the way to hold a session of the National Assembly. You've been trying various exhibitions to narrow it down, two-minute breaks, a half-hour break; your deputy or vice president of the National Assembly gave a break for lunch before the usual time. We suggested the talks of the heads of Parliament's groups and you refused everything, so that you would eventually accept it. By the way, I'm advertising a breach of Article 90 on the agenda, a violation of the provisions of articles of 190 and beyond, that's the attitude of the National Assembly and the Government, and a violation of Article 226. It happened ten days ago. Then a few days ago, at least in the media, it was announced that a session of the Assembly would be held on Monday, and then, suddenly, it was scheduled for today. I have now arrived at the session, and I have no draft agenda, no draft laws on the agenda. How do you suppose we discuss them and plead against them? But I'd like your attention, please. Mr. President, what you did after the infamous previous session of Parliament was a violation of the Constitution. You asked the government to answer whether proposing laws that were on the agenda violated the Constitution. You have replaced the roles of the National Assembly and the Government. Mr. President, under Article 124. The Constitution, the government is responsible to the National Assembly. I speak to the citizens of Serbia, and whether or not the president is there, it doesn't matter. So the government is responsible to the Assembly, not the Government Assembly. The government is proposing anti-constitutional laws, and then the Prime Minister asks the government to make a statement whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or not. It's a flagrant violation of the Constitution. Another thing about today's new draft agenda is that there can be no point, no law on the agenda before the Serbian Constitutional Court is elected. Gentlemen, there are lawyers here, if blind party obedience obliges them to close their eyes, then I don't know how far we'll get. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2047	Mr. Batic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2048	My time is just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2049	The time for the Rules of Procedure, by which you called, is up, and in your time...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2050	Don't comment on it, that's my comment. Now try to hear what I'm going to say very briefly and work hard to remember. I know it's hard, but try. So we need a Constitutional Court because every law is subject to an assessment of constitutionality. Look at Article 168. The constitution - 25 MPs can initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality, even before an order to declare the law is passed. That's the provisions of article 169 that tell you. Therefore, gentlemen, the matter is very simple. We must form a Constitutional Court, because if you pass a law and 25 MPs ask for a constitutional assessment, there is nothing to be done because there is no Constitutional Court, there is no one to assess constitutionality. Who can bring a provisional measure to the Constitutional Court? Let's a little respect for the Constitution, you who swear to be advocates of democracy, try to respect the Constitution. One more thing. Since our parliamentary group has challenged Mr Balinovac being a representative of the government at the last session of Parliament, let me say that we do not mind that he is an ex-member of the JUL, and now a member of another party. Every party has the right to be a collection center, to be a dump, we will not engage. We don't mind such a man being a government official, it's in the ruling coalition, if they don't mind, let it be, but we'll never let someone who in this way broke the law and what he's meant to represent, the essence of democracy, represent the laws in this House. That's what we guarantee you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2051	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia called for a session of the National Assembly, based on the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 166(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and at the request of 122 MPs. In accordance with Article 90, which you have advertised, the points of the agenda are united, etc. Some points can be combined, as article 90 says, and as far as Article 190 goes, you said that this applies to some of the past sessions. Is this an explanation enough or are you asking for the Assembly to make a statement about it? Thank you. Mr Batic wants the Assembly to make a statement about it. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2052	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Honored Rascani, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. Fellow Members of the Parliament, you are probably aware of what has been done in the Rask municipality these days. On the orders of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes, investigations are being carried out these days on the existence of alleged mass graves on the territory of our municipality. May I have your attention, please? This wouldn't be so interesting, because after 2-3 days of work on a potential and imaginary location, there are no reports, or so shy, in public, that there's an impression that it's hard for those who predicted that something would be found there. I must point out that the Rascans have experienced this very difficult on their territory, for the simple reason that Raška municipality is the first tourist destination in our republic. It is a place where the National Park of Kopalnik and Nature Park Golia and the entire legacy of medieval Serbian national culture. The question arises whether this really needed the Special Prosecutor's Office to say in such a pompous way that there was a mass grave of 300-500 people. They were upset, above all, and disappointed because a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office had not come out with more flexible information, which implies that there is doubt and that what was found on the ground would be presented to the public after the investigations. We are witnessing that several media outlets, who have mostly encouraged and gladly received such information, have been disappointed today. But Raška municipality will certainly have that agenda point in its local parliament, and Raška municipality will certainly press charges against the responsible, against all those alleged witnesses, that there is a mass grave. I will remind only that Raška is located on the administrative line with Cosmet and in the Raška district, so it may not have been by chance chosen destination such as Raška. We will surely seek compensation for damages, in court proceedings, both for moral and material damage, for what happened to the Rascans. Once again, I insist that Parliament also help us, that, first of all, we treat our municipality and our citizens in the right way. And the responsibility, first of all, of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes' spokesman, is evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2053	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2054	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, last time we spoke nicely, Mr. Albianic and I, at this pay phone. I have reported under Article 225, paragraph 1, which speaks of the people's MPs, and I suppose the public, should be informed of everything that is in the interests of the work and decision-making of the Assembly. I do not see that we have received clear information from the President of the Assembly or from the chairman on why today only part of the points foreseen by the Constitutional Law for the first next meeting after the formation of the Government. I don't think it's a problem for the president of the assembly, who scheduled this session, to explain why he scheduled it like this. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the famous Ombudsman, the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution. Please, dear colleagues, these are the three laws which are the basis for anti-corruption treatment in Serbia. Let me tell you, the Law on Free Access to Information simply could not be realized because Mr. Rodoljub Sabic said in several interviews with means of public information, i.e. He complained to the authorities that he was unable to enforce what the law had authorized, and the citizens, from taxes, paid. Law amending the Law on the State Audit Institution. Well, the state audit institution has never been formed. So, the foundation of government control, budget spending. The State Audit Committee has never been formed, and the law was passed since 2005. I am now asking the question of the Government, and it is very strange that these laws are proposed by 122 MPs; it is not illegal, it is not against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, but it is very interesting that there are no people here who should perform these functions. I'm asking a public question, is it the government's share of the spoils, since the governor's appointment proposal has fallen on the Finance Committee, and by not coming to a member of his party, or is it something else? Could the government and the ruling majority be responsible for the opposition's obstruction? I'll explain why. For two reasons. Last time, the opposition in this House, regardless of its different colors and feles, made a clear obstruction of work out of different motives, with the goal of showing the executive authority that he did not want that...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2055	Time, Mr. Bayatovic. I'll remind you that last time you spoke too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2056	You're very fast on the trigger. So I don't answer twice to finish. Just a minute, I won't last any longer. So the government of the Republic of Serbia had to submit proposals for the people who would do this. Go back to what I was about to say, so Mr. Albianic interrupted me, to whom does this obstruction suit? The opposition has shown that it will not calmly see the rule of law dominated, i.e. Government, and we have shown that we will be persistent until the end, according to the Rules of Procedure, until you have scheduled a session with the agenda as Mr. Dulic promised. On the other hand, it may be the announcements of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in which you wish to limit the possibility of MPs, I suppose to all, primarily to the MPs of the opposition, that in a perfectly legitimate way, because you do not work under the Constitution and the law, you are obstructing Parliament's work, so that you do not start working in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Or, perhaps, the government itself is responsible for us here in Parliament discussing how they do not work under the Constitution and the law, and that they continue, beyond the Constitution and the law and good political morality, to divide the prey away from the eyes of the public? Thank you and I apologize to you personally, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2057	From what I understand, Mr. Bayatovic, you're asking for an answer from someone, from the National Assembly or from the President of the National Assembly, and accordingly the answer will come. The Assembly's session is not partial. You might want more points on the agenda, but they'll be at the next sessions. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2058	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am fully aware of what the speaker of the assembly has been invited to attend Articles 166 and 167 on an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. But there is something that we, the people's MPs, come from within...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2059	Excuse me, what do you call yourself when you talk about the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2060	To Articles 84, 225 and 226. What I want to point out in particular is this. We got yesterday afternoon, about 16-17 hours, a call for today's session. We didn't get any draft laws put on the agenda. Do MPs who are invited at 16 or 17 hours of the previous day have the opportunity to come to the bill, to look at it and participate equally in its debate? As far as I know, under Article 84, it is required to do so by the President of the Assembly, and it is also necessary for the Assembly's professional service to deliver the material in time. That's one thing. We, as far as I can tell, are competing politically. We didn't respect the Constitution, we don't respect the Constitutional Law and we don't respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of this highest house. The assembly majority was formed, and we voted the government. The government is now dealing with its intra-party issues, asking the most responsible people for the most responsible functions, both in ministries and in public enterprises. I'm asking this house a question. I'm asking the President of the Assembly. One of the most important issues we need to discuss is exactly the budget, and we still don't see that the budget will come to this highest home. Why do I want to point that out? The two basics that the budget system needs to be resolved are the following. We expect the National Investment Plan Act to be implemented. These days we are faced with a lot of pressure from workers who have performed infrastructure works in municipalities. However, the resolution ministries, which under NIP's commitments did not receive funding from the budget, cannot implement the obligations imposed on performers. Also, these days, western Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2061	We will talk about Western Serbia in the next report, as the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2062	Wait a minute. He's going down, Kolubara, the Sword, it's hit the storm. These days, we're hearing statements from the Resolute Ministry that there aren't enough missiles. A peasant should pray to God not to reach the city, and we have suffered great damage. When it comes to Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, I want an explanation when it comes to the arrest of General Tolimir...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2063	Mr. Jovanovic, time is up. In the following reports, these members will be elaborated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2064	Just one sentence. The B92 media, RTS and Pink, on May 31st, came to the border crossing area in Ljubljana, between Love and Bratunac, and asked the citizens if there was an arrest of the generals in our area at the border crossing. Citizens on the one hand, Drina and Drina, except for the appearance of helicopters, were not convinced that the arrest had been made in the area. They're looking, and I'm looking for an answer to the question where the general was arrested, and I should...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2065	Who do you want to address that question to, Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2066	Citizens should get an answer to that question. The question of organ responsibility is whether they are objective, whether they have informed citizens in time and in the right way. That's what the citizens of Love and the citizens of the surrounding places are looking for. The question arises, first of all, whether we have had effective work, or ineffective so far, were we rational? I'm sure the citizens will have a chance to assess that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2067	As for the mail question, I apologize, Mr Jovanovic, we will really ask why she was a few hours late in the post office in Ljubovija, and these questions will be referred to - who? You didn't say a competent institution. National Security Council. Then we'll see who needs to be instructed, because you didn't say. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic reported. We started working a little later, so there won't be a break at the usual time. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2068	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to answer, at least partially, the questions my predecessor has asked about the lack of missiles. When Boris Tadic was military minister, he ordered Solana to destroy the missiles, and he, a martyr, thought all the missiles and cleaned these up for anti-building defence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, regarding Article 158. Namely, some information has come to the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, and I would like to ask MPs questions and ask that my resolution ministers answer me. I ask, is it true that on 27.10.2006, a laptop missing from the office of 708 Privatisation Agency containing NIS, EPS and Bor? Is it true that a month later, 24. 11, disappeared from office 712 another laptop containing NIS and Bor's data? Is it true that two million euros have disappeared from the Privatisation Agency? Is it true that this is why they resigned: Časlav Petrović - Executive Director, Vladimir Galić - Director General, Aleksandar Pravica - Director of the tender, Željko Matijević - Director of the Centre for Auctions, Goran Obradović - Director of the Centre in Control? I'm asking another parliamentary question. We hear the Agency is moving to the Main Post building, a stone building on Takaviska Street, and 160 million dinars have been spent for adaptation. I ask Mr. Mrkonjic, I ask him to calculate how many new squares can be made out of 160 million dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is now clear that this government is not being held by Solana's glue, but by the crime in which they are tied together. This isn't the government, then this is a joint criminal enterprise and organized crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must warn all MPs of the following fact. In accordance with Article 168. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, during an extraordinary session, may be asked parliamentary questions only if the motion for an extraordinary session provided for in its request. There was no such prediction. Therefore, I ask you to use the Rules of Procedure in the right sense, not to use the Rules of Procedure ourselves to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Markovic, are you satisfied with this explanation? You're not. Okay, thanks. The National Assembly will declare that in the day of the vote. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, reportedly. You'll wait a little while, there's time for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2070	I wanted to warn those who chair the National Assembly session, given the very frequent, flying, changing, as in hockey, that several provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were violated. First, Article 139. We do not have the government's opinion or position on the proposed laws that the callers of the extraordinary session put on the agenda. We believe that it is necessary for the government to deliver its opinion, given that it is a business obligation whenever a law proposes someone else rather than the Government. The government must give its opinion on the bill. That's where it's gone. The Rules of Procedure also provided for the situation unless an opinion was delivered. However, I find it offensive for the National Assembly if, in this situation and for these points of the agenda, which are directly related to the Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it simply does not care what happens at the National Assembly sessions. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure is, at least that's how I heard from the chairman, the merger, or the unification of the debate over these three laws. I need to draw attention to these three laws absolutely have no touch points. They regulate completely different matter. I would point out another injury committed by the president of the assembly, and the chairman tried to cancel it, so he got into an even bigger mistake. Most of the MPs who advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and called for Article 225 sought a notice, not an answer to a parliamentary question. The matter of the parliamentary question is something regulated by Article 170 and some others, a whole chapter, where it is a completely different procedure, but it is true that during an extraordinary session there is no possibility of asking parliamentary questions unless the callers have foreseen it. However, all MPs who went out for this speaker called for Article 225 and another member, who indicated that they were using the right to seek an explanation of the current issues and of something they needed to serve as a MP. What the chairman has warned you at the moment can be freely forgotten because it is not a parliamentary matter. One more thing that is very important to all the viewers of this television broadcast session of the National Assembly. It is not part of the obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. No, I don't. Serbian Radical Party MPs only want to point out one inappropriate passive relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and those parties that make up the majority in the National Assembly, because, you see, they themselves, for the sake of public gratification, unseriously approach a business called calling the National Assembly session, unseriously doing a job called the harmonisation of the law with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that they want to turn the topic of discussion and direct the audience's interest into something that can...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2071	Mr. Krasic, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2072	... Something called the current day policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2073	Did you hear me?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2074	Did you ask me something?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2075	Time's up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2076	I mean, Mr. Albianic, that you didn't understand Mr. Ristic's time. He stood here for the official timer, precisely because of those things that happened to you two years ago in the National Assembly, when it was not known whether the resignation was filed or not. The fact that you're referring to someone who's not officially, or is officially a time-measured timer, I just take it as your recommendation. I'll respect that and it's no problem, but I get the impression that it's a little bit and rude of you, because some of my predecessors have just been warned to talk for six, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2077	Thank you, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2078	Of course I'm not happy with your answer, because you're not even able to answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2079	I'm just gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2080	If I can finish the sentence. I know you're impatient. Of course I can't be satisfied with your answer, because I know the capacity to find the answer. I ask that these injuries be voiced in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2081	Since you asked to vote, there is no need to explain ourselves, although in the Rules of Procedure, Article 139 of Section 5 reads: "Unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions. “ So we do everything in harmony with the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and then the Messenger of the people, Srdjan Shein.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2082	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems that some MPs are used to going to lunch at 14 o'clock, so they don't care what session takes. On this side where the majority of the congregation sits, even a tenth of the MPs are not there. Okay, that's the attitude of the congregation's majority to the Assembly and to the work of the MP. That's why we're interventions to this extent today, according to the Rules of Procedure. Intervention under Articles 100 and 104. The intervention under article 100 concerns most of the president of the National Assembly, and in one part to you, sir, currently chairing. The president of the National Assembly, last time I warned him well-intentioned, drew attention to him to read Article 100, could not learn that every time a MP speaks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure had to explain, in accordance with Article 3. Rules of Procedure. I hope he reads the stenogram, so he'll finally learn it. Mr. Albianic, you are using this opportunity to try to explain to the MPs. I do not enter into the quality of your explanation, you have the right to say as you see it, but you make one mistake when you ask the Messenger of the people, from your place, and the messenger is already in his bench: "Are you satisfied or is the Parliament to make a statement about it? ". Mr. Albianic, you cannot communicate with MPs like neighbors across the board. If the MP is not satisfied with your response, he must go out for this pay phone and make it loud and clear, for a stenogram and for the sake of the public, he says, "I am not satisfied and ask that the National Assembly in the day of voting be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure". I'd like you to take care of it. As for Article 104, one of his colleagues said there was obstruction because the MPs were talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm pretty sure my colleague didn't think it was really an obstruction. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that what we in the SRS, I speak for our parliamentary group, we intervene in the Rules of Procedure, is not because we intend to obstruct, but because we want the Assembly majority to learn to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing has changed since 30 May when we turned your attention to Article 5's obligation. Constitutional law. No points are proposed today as provided for in Article 5. Constitutional law. Also, we don't think there are any conditions for holding this session. Whatever you call it, a fellow MP said the other day on TV, even, that what the radicals are saying behind the pay phone are fascisoid and schizoid statements, which she says she can't listen to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2083	Don't talk about radicals like that. It's been four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2084	I'm applying again to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2085	Since by article 100, as chairman, I'm giving an explanation for every violation of the Rules of Procedure, I think this is also my address to explain it by this article. You said a member of 100th and a member of 104th. Indeed, I, like you, appeal to the dignity of the National Assembly. In that sense, are you asking for these two members to be declared by the National Assembly? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Srdjan Sajn, and then the Messenger of the People, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2086	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226, concerning three issues. First question. Although formal legal conditions have been created for the appointment of an emergency session to elect the Roma National Council, the local self-government department has not yet done so. We're asking a question, why didn't it do it? I hope my colleagues Rajko Djuric and Jovan Damjanovic agree to this and will join this initiative. So the first question is to explain to us why this was not done. Second question. Citizens at the Roma Cultural Centre in Subotica ask why the Ministry of Education does not pay compensation to Roma assistants since January of this year, who regularly come to work without getting money for it? The third question - what public authority does the Ministry of Roma Affairs have within the government and what public authority do members of the Secretariat have?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2087	Mr. Shane, I just said that MPs' questions are not possible under Article 168. Rules of Procedure, but we will certainly forward your questions to the departments in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2088	I'll have to remind you of one thing. I agree with you that under Rule 199, special time is scheduled for questions, and at the end of the session, according to the exhausted agenda, however, as the previous session was interrupted, and I was waiting for the end of the agenda to set it up, now I have done so. So I agree with you. Let me point one more thing to you. When we talk about amending the Rules of Procedure, I will talk about how it says here that only MP groups can, at least once during the month, propose to set a day for parliamentary matters. Since it is not in accordance with the Constitution, that this Rules of Procedure does not give all MPs the same rights, I think you will understand the need to talk about it at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2089	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, and then Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2090	In the beginning, I'm going to indicate which members are involved. It is all those members involved in the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, from 166 to 169, and, of course, it is Article 5. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be absolutely clear, the introduction would especially like to point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in a referendum, that the Constitutional Law was adopted by the same procedure as the Constitution, meaning, by a particular majority. What is prescribed by the Constitutional Law, if amended, would have to be in the same form, in the same procedure and in the same majority to change. We are today witnessing that a group of people, who have declared that most in the National Assembly, in practice, are amending the Constitutional Law, with 122 signatures of people who consider it quite enough to schedule an extraordinary session and at an extraordinary session - to discuss those points of the agenda that are not fully provided for in Article 5. Constitutional law. To be within the limits of constitutionality and legality, today we would have to have a proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We didn't get a proposal like that. Of course, I am not asking for an answer to the question why there is no proposal to elect the governor of the NBS, but I am merely pointing to a major injury that, practically, today's session could not be held, because the agenda is not formed in accordance with the Constitutional Law. It's the first thing where those who came up with the idea of harmonising the laws with the Constitution in this way and, in doing so, respecting the Constitutional Law, should see that they have made a terrible mistake. It's another manipulation, which doesn't surprise us at all, because it's simply been a way since democracy, the arson of the Parliament, came to Serbia. Furthermore, I must draw your attention that, according to the logic applied by whoever called this session, he has just insisted on what is happening today, that this session does not open up, that the public allegedly sees the opposition obstructing work, blocking government, and otherwise, the government has a great desire to be very successful and to work for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course it's just a replacement. I'm asking that these injuries that I've shown the National Assembly be made known if we get to that point that we can say that we're going to have a day to vote. I seriously doubt it after such violations and things like this, where, literally, the finger is pushed into the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, disrespecting their will, not respecting their decision, harassing the National Assembly with some quasi-democratic authority, which is playing something here for us. I ask that in the day of the vote, if we get to that day, these violations of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have been made as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2091	In the day of voting on these injuries, the National Assembly will declare itself. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic came forward. Let MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We're getting into a situation similar to the one we had in the previous session. When we presented, very precisely, the arguments that the Constitution and the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Serbia, from the speaker, or president of the Assembly, heard the same explanations, representatives of the ruling parties laughed, and then the government withdrew from the agenda all these laws, under the pressure of these arguments, because they were indeed unconstitutional. Now we have a situation to repeat everything. Once again, the Constitutional Law, Article 5, states which laws must be on the agenda. Today we have a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution, etc. These are very important laws. I must further say that it is very worrying that the laws dealing with anti-corruption matter have been delivered to the MPs as soon as possible. People's MPs, especially those from the interior, are unable to look at the material because they only get it in the morning, a few hours before the session, so they can't prepare any amendments or anything like that. This is really a scandal. Not to mention that there are laws, such as those of the State Auditing Institution, changes that are foreseen far from what is written in the Constitution. There is no agreement with the Constitution or the Constitutional Law, but it is obvious that the preparations are being made for the people to whom these places are intended, as is the case with members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. It is indeed very important matter, very important places, people who are dealing with the fight against corruption and crime, which are booming today in Serbia, who have reached an unprecedented situation in Serbia. It is likely that Serbia will be taken as an example of a country where new methods have been developed and a new methodology has been applied to rob citizens through...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2093	Mr. Stefanovic, I thought you were speaking to the Rules of Procedure. Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2094	Yeah, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure. I said it at the beginning. If you'd listened to me very carefully, you'd have heard me say that a member of 104 was injured. Please refuse this time now, since you interrupted me during the discussion. So, regardless of what the ruling majority is trying to do, the government doesn't care if the law is being broken, whether laws that can't be on the agenda are being proposed, whether there are various malversions in Serbia, whether General Tolimir is being arrested in Serbia, as he is, and then we are told a variety of fairy tales that no one would accept, whether massive economic objects are being destroyed to people all over Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2095	Time's up, according to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2096	I'm done. ... Which destroys the economic potential of the country. This is the only country where citizens have to start associations called "presence". If this were a normal country, this would form an association called "progress", "better", "better life" etc. Here people have to start something to survive. I'm done. A few weeks ago, it was in the media that the Japanese agriculture minister committed suicide, as corruption of 236 thousand dinars was discovered. I'd hate for any of our ministers to take a similar route, but against those millions they stole, we'd be out of the government fast.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2097	Thank you. Are you asking the Assembly to make a statement about this breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. The word has a folk MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, and then a national envoy, Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I address you primarily. Before I say what I went out for, I'd like to remind Mr. Chairman of his behaviour, that he is finally being courted, because his behavior is being deconcentrated by the MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS who came here to seriously solve problems of state nature, and they didn't come to watch his behavior, in terms of, believe me, I just saw, is a man, how can I say without being rude, how culturally to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2099	Thanks for the compliments. We can move on to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2100	Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry that such a man is sitting behind me and looking at so many people in the eyes. I don't have a cultural word I'd use to explain his behavior and his attitude. So now I'm going to keep my mouth shut, hoping he'll figure it out, and he'll continue to behave normally, to the height of the task he's carrying out. So, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure have been broken into several members - 104, 225 and 226. According to Article 104, I have already explained, I demand that the dignity of the National Assembly be respected and that I say that the MPs of the SRS are seriously prevented from participating in the formation of serious state institutions that have brought them here. We didn't come here to waste time. We came here from all over Serbia. I, in particular, left three children, all with the intention of helping citizens and forming some institutions that are important for the further work of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is clear that my left side is half empty, I am sorry that there is no cameraman here to record it well, and that left side is, in fact, the ruling coalition and support of the ruling coalition, which is absolutely the same attitude towards citizens' problems and the problems of the Republic of Serbia that we are in right now. I warned you about how to conduct the session, and now I'm warning you on the agenda. I want to say that in this agenda you are just confirming, that is, the ruling coalition confirms how little it cares about solving the major and important state issues that have brought us all together here. So, the ruling coalition, absolutely, respected citizens, I address you, has no intention of solving any questions about our lives and the lives of our children. I therefore draw your attention that this session was to begin by forming a Constitutional Court and selecting the Constitutional Court judges, that there would be someone who would say about all these laws that they had passed so far and the laws that they had put on the agenda today would have nothing to do with the agenda of the Second Session of the National Assembly, which is extraordinary here. What I want to tell you next. I want to say that here, in an extremely illegal way, the ruling coalition wants to pass certain laws, because we have no right and no legal ability to control and verify whether these laws are in accordance with the Constitution or not, because we don't have the Constitutional Court as we should have. So I ask you to behave and finally determine what we came for, what the citizens of Serbia expect from us, and I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia and saying that most of the National Assembly is responsible for the situation and that the Serbian Radical Party is not responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2101	You've broken your time. You have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, that the dignity of the National Assembly is respected. And so am I, and most of the people's messengers. Please don't break the Rules of Procedure when you talk to him. Three minutes are scheduled for the Rules of Procedure, and the whole time longer than that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare Articles 104, 225 and 226? Rules of Procedure in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. The word is made by MP Željko Vasiljevic, then by MP Slavisa Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2102	Mr. Albianic and the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there were several MPs reporting for word and talking about broken members of the Rules of Procedure, and from 166 to 169.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2103	What members are you reporting for?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2104	I'm reporting, along with all these, and on behalf of members 225 and 226. But, Mr. Albianic, look.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2105	Articles 225 and 226, as well as 168 are not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2106	In Article 168, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall apply to the extraordinary sitting. I would ask you to allow me, by members of 225 and 226, to inform this assembly and all citizens of a very important issue that will soon be very interesting for Serbia, which is, gentlemen dear, that the text "Europe v Aeroflot" has been published in the daily newspaper "Politicals" and they say, the European Commission says....
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2107	Please, we cannot read the newspaper now when we report to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2108	It is very important and I ask that the Assembly on this statement, not the Assembly, but that the chairman of the Serbian Parliament's Committee of Resorship be made known urgently on this issue. Also, I ask that Resolute Minister Mr. Velimir Ilic plead whether this is true. The bottom line is that the European Union has looked down on the possibility that in the upcoming privatisation of JAT Airways, the majority owner of our national air carrier, too, respects Aeroflot. The team, the European Commission, as the EU executive body, following a statement by Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic that Aeroflot was the most serious candidate to buy JAT, sent this attitude to Serbia in writing. They confirmed it in the civil aviation directory. Why is this, gentlemen my dear, very important? It is important that we here as MPs determine what kind of relationship to Serbia, its laws and its government has a European Union that we are unreservedly seeking. I think that, in line with the interests of this people and the interests of this assembly, we need to seek an urgent statement from those people I talked about at the beginning of the talk, to tell us whether this is true and whether we are going to sell JAT to companies from the EU at a much lower price than Aeroflot or, I don't know, Er India, at a much more favourable price for Serbia and for the Serbian people. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2109	The question will be referred to the committee responsible and the minister. I told you it's not according to the Rules of Procedure to refer to the question under Rule 168. Thank you. National MP Slavisa Topalović, then MP of the People, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2110	Mr. Albianic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 103, 104, 225 and 226. Mr. Albianic, you are currently the chairman, and thank God it's only right now. Don't look too happy, Mr. Dulic will come to you and your happiness will come to an end. The government that you support arrests, kidnaps and extradites its citizens to The Hague tribunal. We know that for the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, one of you took five million euros, so I ask the question – how much and who has now taken the money for the extradition of General Zdravko Tolimir? It's the Dollars and, well, let me help you out a little bit. Kostunica has been uninformed, as has always been, even in the event of a recent arrest of our general. In this case, too, it has been proven that Kostunica has been uninformed, as state authorities claim General Tolimir has been arrested in Republika Srpska. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, because it's a complete lie. Now everyone knows that, and your associate and friend Carla has confirmed that it's not true. She said Kostunica lies to both the European Union and the Serbian people. Ask yourself why she confirmed it and why she told Kostunica that she was lying. She confirmed because she knows it's true and that General Tolimir was arrested on Bezanski's hair, in New Belgrade, that in a black bag he was transferred to a car and into a helicopter and transported to Republika Srpska. He was reportedly arrested at the crossing of Ljubovija-Bratunac. He was told there by BIA members to get him out of Belgrade only until the crowd passed, because Carla del Ponte is coming, so someone doesn't come out in the meantime. Then, in a well-known way, in the way of Vuk Brankovic and in your DOS, they betrayed him and handed him over to Dodik's authorities to pass him on to The Hague. She said that because it is necessary to humiliate the big ones in the democratic bloc and separate their larger listeners. Their listeners are DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, and bigger than those large, slightly larger, the DSI other encrypted "the party's van", which you too belong to, Mr Albianic, who are on Serbia's political scene. You saw Kostunica accept the hot potatoes, nothing, a traitor's gesture, and hand over the general. The responsibility for this deception of the Serbian people should be accepted by Kostunica and his police minister, Dragan Jocic. You've seen how... Mr. Shami, is everything all right? You have seen Shuki "Elp pumps", the defence minister, wash his hands from kidnapping and transporting generals to Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2111	Time. You have to finish, otherwise you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2112	Just a second. You're saying the military authorities weren't involved in the kidnapping. Vojislave Kostunica, this time they betrayed you and played you, tricked you, and this time they showed you are incapable of running the state. You have not been notified this time, Vojislave Kostunica, along with the police minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2113	Mr Topalovic, do you understand that time has passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2114	I know that you want as many speakers as possible to have during which time you chair until Dulic arrives, and that's in your best interest, but let me just finish or I'll report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2116	Vojislav Kostunica, as I said this time, has been played and fooled and has shown that he is unable to lead the state to Serbia and the Serb people. This time, he was not informed, as usual, along with Police Minister and Police Director Veljovic, who should be responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2117	You can bring all this into contact with Articles 103, 104 and 225 and 226, since we haven't heard that in an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2118	Can I finish or report back to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2119	Finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2120	Come on, then, when Mr. Dulic arrives, since you're nervous. You want more speakers to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2121	I'm not nervous, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2122	Yes, it is. Mr. Albianic, are you from Koseric, perhaps?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2123	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2124	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was brought in at the time of the last call, when, Mr. Albianic, you were in this House, too, is so restrictive that it is obvious that the MP in the time that he was scheduled to speak according to the Rules of Procedure is unable to express what he actually reported. I am confidently aware that you are planning to bring in an even more restrictive Rules of Procedure now, in order to make it impossible for the MPs of the opposition to speak of what they should talk about, or do their job. You just interrupted me when I was talking about the injured members of 100th and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the time has elapsed in the Rules of Procedure for the Injurement of Rules of Procedure. Of course, that's what came to mind, and that's why I immediately called and said that you were writing me in the next order of the Rules of Procedure, so that I could finish what I wanted to say and that, Mr Albianic, I would draw attention to you and as you chair, and when you bring this new Rules of Procedure, make sure that you are not able to prevent the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from speaking. You're much better off being a little more flexible and not breaking up every minute because it's been three minutes. I'd have finished my whole exposure in another 15 seconds, but you made me talk for another three minutes. Article 104 was injured, and the injury lasted all days from May 30th to the day of today, at the public appearances of the assembly majority MPs, who claimed that no injured Article 5. Constitutional law, and that the opposition MPs, above all, are the Serbian Radical Party's guilty, as you said, of obstructing Parliament's work. No one has ever explained to us what the problem is, why you changed your agenda today, if you claimed you were right. I'm saying you were wrong, not even then, and you're not right now, because you failed to comply with Article 5 again. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. As part of this defilement of the opposition, I repeat, you just interrupted me when I said that a fellow MP said that radicals are giving behind a pay phone of schizoid and fascisoid statements, which she cannot listen to. That's probably why she hasn't been here all day, and I guess she was at the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2125	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Zoran Krasic. Mrs. Radeta, I'm really going to try to be flexible about this, but we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, all together. I'm not changing the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to be doing it by the entire National Assembly, and so are you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2126	I remind you again of the 166th to 169th of our Rules of Procedure. For the sake of the public, according to the Constitutional Law, we would have to attend today's session, as they imagined, at an extraordinary session, to finish a job called compliance with the Constitution. We, according to the Constitutional Law, would have to have on the agenda two draft laws on amendments and additions, one that complies with the Law on the Protector of Citizens and, secondly, which regulates the exercise of citizens' right to notification. Today, according to the Constitutional Law, we had to have four choices, meaning that we should choose the Citizens' Protector, the authority responsible for monitoring citizens' rights to the notification, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the State Auditing Institution, by having to repeat that a certain presummation of something must precede this - the formation of a Constitutional Court, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, because at this stage after the adoption of the Constitution, when these short deadlines are prescribed by the Law to comply with certain regulations and the selection of certain bodies, practically, the process of forming state bodies, the alignment of their work with what is the highest act, and that is the Constitution. You see, today we only have two draft laws on the agenda, which is binding under Article 5. Constitutional law. We don't have any choice proposals and we have one, from the point of view of the Constitutional Law, an illegal proposal, to amend the Law on the State Auditing Institution. So we're in a completely illegal state. It has long been a parliamentary practice, a parliamentary standard, that one of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is present in the building of the National Assembly, during the session. Since a new assembly of the National Assembly has been established, they have once been representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here and are gone. Why aren't they here? Because, basically, it's an ugly government, it's a terrible, ugly government. I am informing the parliamentary majority, the assembly majority present here to support such a government, that you are supporting a proven angry government. It's not a matter of court value, it's not a matter of time, time can't cure rust, it can only strengthen it, rust then takes much more on when you, who throw about time, you interns, take care; time is the best judge for everyone. For all of you, time will be a very good political judge because, you take care, everyone stays in this building a little while longer and more often they stay on the street, in the neighborhood, near relatives. After each such session, you have much less arguments and pride to look into someone's eyes. You saw what he was swearing in his eyes, he ran away, he couldn't look anyone in the eye, and now he's getting ready to hear another lesson in Moscow, how it could be in one chair with two halfs. I'm asking to vote there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2127	Mr. Krasic, since these are members from 166 to 169, and there was just a request from you to vote, don't we have to do it twice, is it enough once to vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2128	No, Mr. Albianic, you don't understand. Those members with a focus on Article 5. Constitutional law, it's now, about, some coalition of two regulations. The constitutional law is, in every respect, a higher legal act than the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2129	We figured it out and said the assembly would come forward. Just to confirm if he has to do it twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2130	You didn't understand. Last time I said something else. You didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2131	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Twice the congregation will declare this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2132	I've come out three times, Mr. Albianic, and three times the Assembly will plead, but you're not really informed, you're not in progress. Three times I insisted that in the day of voting the Assembly be made clear about my objections. My remarks are very precise, clear, probably in the stenograms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2133	We'll put them to a vote. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 98(2), I propose that we take a break in the work in order to carry out the necessary consultations, because we seem to be re-entering that agony we had in the previous session, in a completely aimless and reckless waste of time. I again appeal that most, at least on paper, do not terrorise the minority. This is an insult to all the MPs, this is an insult to the citizens of Serbia, this is an insult to common sense, an insult to intelligence. Here, I see here the chief, or representative of the parliamentary majority, so I appeal - no law can be passed if it cannot be secured and protected from the Constitutional Court, in terms of the right and the possibility of the right to seek an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of each individual law. I remind you of the provision of Article 168, which concerns the assessment of constitutionality and legality that can be sought by at least 25 MPs. According to Article 169, even before the law enters into force, before the President of the Republic confirms the law, one third of the MPs, that is just over 80 MPs, can be ensured here that it is slightly more than 80 MPs, may require that the law is not declared. The Constitutional Court is required to respond within seven days. Hypothetically, we can continue to work today, we can vote this agenda, these laws can be passed. Then they should go to the President of the Republic for confirmation by order. One-third of the MPs demand an assessment of their constitutionality and demand that it be declared unconstitutional of the law, but there is no one. There's no Constitutional Court. The only thing the National Assembly can do, and the powers are given by Article 9. The constitutional law is that from the quota of the president of the Republic and the quota of the National Assembly, when there is no Supreme Cassation Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, chooses a Constitutional Court that will then not have a full composition, but will have a sufficient majority to function. Because if you pass a law, anyone who is authorized to ask for an assessment of constitutionality, it cannot be realised, because there is no Constitutional Court. We cannot play, and Parliament is a place where the Constitution must be respected. For Parliament, the Constitution is sacred. For the MP, the Constitutional Court is one of the most important institutions. We can't do anything unless we have a Constitutional Court. Can you understand that? There's no need for any... Please, do you have something to say? Come out, and say, "Don't be like a mouse tossing in holes and throwing away." You belong to the ruling coalition, how can you not be ashamed? And that's another party that's, for God's sake, legalistic. So, what's legal here? It's not necessary here or telelogically, meaning target interpretation, or Semantic, meaning conceptual. It takes logic and grammar, language. Logical, grammar and language. That's what every layman understands. You don't have any, people, the Constitutional Court, and without the Constitutional Court, it's not worth passing any laws. Can you understand that? Don't make us monkeys. Last time we couldn't watch the Eurovision finals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2135	Mr. Batic, your time has already been pretty far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2136	Let me finish, thanks for the tolerance. We couldn't watch the Eurovision finals. Now he's playing Novak Djokovic. Do not make fools of the Messengers of the people. We're not the hostages of your incompetence, your insolence. Let's end this torture, Mr. Albianic, Mrs. Kolundjia. Let's take a break, let's consult, get out of this agony. No one's crazy here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2137	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Under Article 98, the president of the National Assembly can set a break. He can, so he can, he can, and he doesn't have to. That's one thing. Secondly, as for the break, the regular break, we were a little late at the beginning, so it's time to work effectively and take a break later. The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then the MP, Miroslav Dimitrijevic, came forward, still according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, are the exact presentations of Serbian Radical Party MPs, first of all, one of the biggest lawyers, experts in Serbia, counterpart Zoran Krasic, which was confirmed and suspended at the status conference of President Seselj, when he said that there is no lawyer in The Hague casamat either. But you don't want to listen to his warning, nor to warn the SRS MPs about the unconstitutional summoning of this session. Since Mr Batic has just found that there is no Constitutional Court, and since you, your obvious parliamentary majority, bordering on haughtiness or pride in the right sense, are going to vote on an unconstitutional call, i.e. on the basis of Article 189, firstly, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that you, Mr Albianic, do not have that information, to inform me as soon as he returns whether, on the basis of article 189 he informed Boris Tadic that a session of the National Assembly is being held. On the basis of Article 225, I ask that personally the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia obtain us information on whose money, national money, the money of the poor Serbian citizens, Boris Tadic, traveled to Finland to track down the match of Finland - Serbia, along with his mentor, Olli Rehn, and then, by the system of his best friend, Vojislav Kostunica, informed us that he knew nothing about the arrest of General Tolimir, who was arrested not in the vicinity of Love, which Mr Vidoje said earlier, but in Belgrade, on the Bezanjska piece, which we have evidence of, we Serbian radicals. Mr Nikolic is ready to present them and I would like to invite Mr Dacic, who, later on, will likely return to the room, to tell us how long he has arrived as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee in his co-operation, or communication with the competent ministers. How much today, we urgently need to have a session where Dragan Jocic, Dragan Sutanovac and Rade Bulatovic will appear, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has spread false news, misinformation, as well as the president of the Republic, who said he knows nothing about it. They harassed citizens on the day when a famous Serbian general, a Serbian citizen, was arrested in Belgrade, and then, having been kidnapped, in a bag for dead people, was transferred to Republika Srpska and photographed alongside military facilities in Bratunc. In order for this situation to be resolved, I appeal to the 112st member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic could prevent this constitutional violence if he wishes. I don't think that's his intention, because he was prevented from going to the game with Rena while the state was going down; the concerned people in Kosovo and Metohija are preparing a new resolution -- to take away our southern Serbian province, the people more and more poor, the factories don't work, people don't have bread to eat, and he has more to do. He's the only one who can handle it, as per Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I am taking this opportunity and Article 189. The Rules of Procedure, as well as 225, should I invite Boris Tadic not to sign the order of the president of the Republic of these laws. Because if he does, one day, when the Constitutional Court is formed, he will have to, like Oliver Dulic and the proposed representative, be responsible for the constitutional violence that is being committed, i.e. for violating the Constitution and constitutional law. The President of the Republic couldn't possibly sign that because the Assembly, in another day, probably on Monday or Tuesday, again, I say, with your arrogance, votes these laws, because it is entering an unconstitutional arrangement and then it is normal for us to expect it to resign, and otherwise the end of its rule is near, as is yours. You think that now Kostunica is even more agile in the betrayal of the people and Serbian famous generals...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2139	Miss Jovanovic, you are the vice president of the National Assembly and you must respect... It's been four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2140	You know what, Mr. Albianic, since you've had this infamous role of you entering this unconstitutional arrangement and chairing a session of the National Assembly, if I were you, I'd ask myself, and I'd put my finger on my forehead. She's usually squirming, if there's anything in there. Put your finger on your forehead and see what happens to you, will you, too, be held accountable one day. Justice may be slow, but accessible. You'll all be responsible for this violation of the Constitution. The citizens did not go to a referendum on 28 and 29 October last year to confirm in such a percentage the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that you would now be living and that you would violate it in this way. Boris Tadic must by no means, by the letter of the Constitution and the law, sign...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2141	I'm sorry, there's no more time, you've broken all the norms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2142	... The laws that you will vote on. I'm warning him now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2143	Ms. Jovanovic, we will forward your questions to the authorities, but for questions referred to the president of the Assembly, since you are sitting next to him, you might be able to ask him a few questions. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, and then a National MP, Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2144	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I request a notice, in accordance with Articles 226 and 225. The Rules of Procedure, before this Parliament and before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, of the existing parliamentary majority (it is true that they are not there, but at least of those who are present), about why we have squandered and why has the first regular session of Parliament been in vain? So, ineffectively, everything was done that we are now, in an extraordinary session, doing nothing from what needs to be done in the first regular session. I'll remind you of everything that was to be done, to make it clear to the citizens. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Law on the exercise of the right of citizens to know, the choice of the Protector of citizens, the choice of a body responsible for the exercise of citizens' right to know, the choice of governor of the National Bank, the selection of the State Auditory Institution. In view of Article 9. The constitutional law, which says - the election, i.e. the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges, will be carried out by the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly, should also work on the law on the regulation of the Constitutional Court and on the law on the procedure before the Constitutional Court, and the president of the Republic of Serbia should propose 10 candidates to the Assembly to make the Assembly known. The National Assembly was scheduled to propose 10 candidates to the president of the Republic of Serbia in order to establish a Constitutional Court. All this had to be done so that we could at all verify the resignations of the MPs and the new mandates of the MPs, so that we could vote in favour of any law, so that we could vote in favour of any important decision, which, with the right to doubt their constitutionality and to raise the issue of constitutionality, so that we could verify international agreements, so that we could have the right to make international contracts and talk about them. Instead, during the first regular session, we barely put the government together, barely passed the Ministry Act, and the most important thing was that we extended the detention to 40 years. We were also on track to pass laws that were not important for the First Regular Session, but they concerned political interests of the parties that make up the political majority in Parliament today. The committees? I guess we'll have them set up by the end of the second regular session. Since time has passed, three minutes and 11 seconds, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2145	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Topalović, and then MP Zoran Krasic. Reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2146	Reporting under the Rules of Procedure, breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 103. Mr. Albianic, this is not your chair in the family house near Koseric, so that you usurp and interrupt the MPs in the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2147	Please specify precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2148	You have a Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. Don't interrupt the MPs. I'm just going to continue my exposure from a little while ago. And this time Vojislav Kostunica was not informed, along with Police Minister Dragan Jocic, police director Veljovic, who should explain to the Serbian public why and whether he was forced to make such a statement -- that General Tolimir was not arrested in Serbia, Belgrade, but in Republika Srpska, more specifically, in Bratunc, next to a military facility. Along with them, and confused Mr. Shormaz, who had to lie, too, on that show on TV Fox; even though he knew he wasn't telling the truth, he had to stick to it. Tolimir's been arrested on Bezian hair and all the citizens there know it. At 3:15 a.m., an incursion and kidnapping took place. There's a broken stock on the door, along with the door. Citizens who heard the noise and went out into the hallway to see what was going on there, the executioners with black phantoms on their heads literally forced them into their apartments and told them to mind their own business. That's true, and all of Serbia needs to know. You betrayed the Serbian general, you plan to hand over General Mladic. You now carry responsibility on your back. During your reign, the most Serbs were handed over to The Hague tribunal in The Hague. The people of Serbia will adequately punish you in the upcoming elections. Don't talk anymore, implementing your political programme, that you are different from the Democratic Party. No, you're just like them, and worse than them. They say they are "yellow" and will hand over all their Western mentors, that they will meet all their requirements for joining the European Union. Don't make excuses, because you do the same, but you lie before and deceive Serbia and the Serb people. At night, you arrest Serbian generals and transfer them secretly to the territories of other states, far from the eyes of the public, in order to avoid liability for this shameful arrest. Mr. Albianic, you're part of all this. And you support this Serbian government, and I believe that by voting, we should plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. As you know, in Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, among other things, reads: "At the time of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers." Thank you, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2149	MP Zoran Krasic. The replica has to wait, these are business reports. National Messenger Zoran Krasic, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic. Only if all MPs allow, Mr. Shormaz, to report to the replica now, that's how we can do it. Otherwise, reporting to the Rules of Procedure always takes precedence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2150	I'm saying he's a injured member of 27. Rules of Procedure. Also, I'm not saying that he did this to the current chairman, that's what the president of the National Assembly did, and I don't expect an explanation from the chairman. It would also be untasteful if he could explain it. The voting day will get rid of that too. Article 27 states that the President of the National Assembly should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Aging doesn't mean sitting in the chair seat and welcoming a deep age, because since democracy came, that's how state functions are experienced. I'm sitting in a chair, waiting for a pension or a deep age. Advocacy on the application of the Rules of Procedure should mean that the chairman, i.e. the president, has one very responsible, honest and honorable relationship with the work he does and with what is written in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are a technical means that enables MPs to express the will of their constituents as best possible. When it points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, precisely because the one who is to watch over the Rules of Procedure does not do so well, it legally-technically prevents the election will of the people from gaining full importance. What does this translation into our home language mean? This means that the president of the National Assembly was wrong, and I now claim that he is doing this on purpose and consciously, because when he received material for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, he also had to ask for an extraordinary session to warn the whole series of provisions of the Rules of Procedure that could be violated if this assembly was divided into MPs and tried to hold this session. A whole series of Rules of Procedure have been broken. Of course, he didn't want to warn them because he's part of that coalition, part of the plan that needs to be done. You see, the "democratic block" brings us back, and the point of the Constitutional Law and Article 5 is, above all, to enforce the necessary harmonisation of some laws with the Constitution, in order to hold elections for these state authorities. So, the focus is on electing the Guardian of Citizens to elect the governor of the NBS. You see, with the governor it was estimated that there was no need to change the law, but only to change the governor, to choose a new one, to give new blood, new strength to the state authorities, according to the new constitution. Not taking care of the Rules of Procedure, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly is knowingly obstructing the state. I ask the MPs to accept my warning and this injury and when it's voting day, that everyone vote for it, because this man doesn't deserve to be president of the National Assembly. You see, in the third attempt, he proves he's breaking the Rules of Procedure. It is no longer an accident, it is part of a plan to defuse the development, survival of the Republic of Serbia. This is dangerous, because it is in this way jeopardizing the vital interests of citizens, people and something that should be government and state in some territory. So I ask you to seriously interpret this remark of mine and in the voting day support this and thus warn the President of the Assembly that it is time to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2151	The National Assembly will declare these demands in the voting day. The word has a People's MP Bozidar Delic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of the Rules of Procedure, members of 104th and 87th. Gentlemen, the chaos in Serbia is spreading precisely from this most legislative institution where we are all sitting together. At the last session, from 10 a.m. to 20:45 p.m., we discussed whether the Constitution was being broken or not. Gentlemen who represent the majority of this assembly and who are behind this agenda, you must understand once that the opposition, which sits on this side, does not obstruct the work of the Assembly. It is you who are obstructing the work of the Assembly and who have set out not only for the opposition, but also for the common sense of the Serbian citizens. Last time, from the first to the last item of the agenda, you broke the Constitution. Today you have made a second agenda that also violates the Constitution. Breaking the Constitution can't be a little or much. Either there's a breach of the Constitution or he's gone. So today, as we did in the last session, we should lose a full day's work and conclude this session again with the finding that the Constitution has been broken and that we have lost two working days of the Assembly. How will the citizens react, and how should they appreciate our work? All that I have heard from citizens about our work, for the past few months and for this tenth session, is negative, but not because of the opposition, but because of you who, practically, are making legal violence against the Constitution. Mr. Chairman, please, when the President of the Assembly arrives or on that big break, let the heads of Parliament meet and agree not to wait again until 21 or 22 hours and interrupt the session of the Assembly. We must, at least from this home, fulfill from the first letter to the last letter of the Constitution. We have to ask ourselves whether we are the highest legislative authority or whether we are just a government transmission. If we're the government's transmission, I'm sure this right-hand side of this house, which represents the opposition, will not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2153	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia is in a very serious crisis. This is not about the crisis carried out by the MPs, especially not from the opposition's order, because we are really fighting here to prevent the violation of the Constitution and the law and thus best to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the point is. The parliamentary and constitutional crisis is being carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority that supports it. Although we have repeatedly expressed our views on the unconstitutional agenda, that agenda has welcomed us today. We have a situation, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned, that here we are not talking at all about the choice of holders of those functions prescribed by the Constitutional Law, but are about amendments and additions of laws that cannot be in accordance with the Constitutional Law at all. This morning at 10 o'clock, we had a session of the Finance Committee and at that session, I would like to inform the citizens, most of the votes, of the proposal that the governor of the National Bank be Radovan Jelasic. Most committee members voted against it. This proposal today, until it's back on the agenda, and maybe, to some other majority, it doesn't work, won't be on the agenda. Also, when it comes to an audit facility, we have a situation where the Council to be elected, which is the highest body of this body and which deals with serious anti-corruption material, will also not be elected, perhaps until next week, as the competition for election of members of the Council continues until Wednesday next week, and a session of the Finance Committee will only be held on Friday. About the Constitutional Court, I don't think there's any need to talk too much, because there's obviously someone in this Serbia who answers that the Constitutional Court doesn't exist, that we don't have judges of the Constitutional Court. Then the citizens, MPs and all others, were left to the ruling majority for mercy and mercy. That is why Serbian Radical Party MPs today in Serbia have a very difficult task -- to deal with all of this, to protect Serbia from corruption and crime, to protect it from lawlessness. That's why we fight here every day. This is really no obstruction, this is a way to help citizens, to ensure a better future and to defeat the corrupt government that runs this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2155	Please don't give government qualifications by heart. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2156	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure because I think he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which obliges the President of the National Assembly to carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution. As you can see, the discussion said quite a lot about what was first - grade resolution at the Second Meeting of the National Assembly. The political climate for large legislative ventures in Serbia is not favourable. The constitutional court does not function, the authorities of the judicial authority envisioned by the new constitution, such as the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary, the State's Major Prosecutors, have not yet been formed. Article 5 of Article 2 says -- during the cabinet's new election session, the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to courts and public prosecutors. What, first of all, was to be done as a previous question? The constitutional law implementing the new constitution provides for the resolution of the current and election of new presidents of all Serbia's courts and public prosecutors, as well as the re-election of all judges and deputy public prosecutors, i.e. the resolution of the existing and re-election of new ones. In the atmosphere of uncertainty caused by this in the ranks of the judicial authorities and their personnel, a change in regulations would create further confusion. Before applying, new regulations must be studied in detail. Who can study them, the judges and prosecutors who are leaving, or the ones who need to come? How do you study them before the reelection or after the election? It particularly concerns the situation in Serbia's constitutional judiciary. Since the end of 2000 until today, Serbia's Constitutional Court has long not functioned at all, not just once, but several times. For the first time, at the very beginning, from February 2001 to August 2002, then from October 2006 to the election of new judges, which should not be expected until the end of 2007. The blockade in the Constitutional Court has come for various reasons, and in recent times, the Court has stopped working after his president retired since October 2006. So, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2157	Mr. Jojic, time has passed, and my question is, does the Assembly have to make a statement about this, since it's hard to explain this violation of the Rules of Procedure you're talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2158	This is a violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the President of the National Assembly, above all, is doing the work envisaged by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2159	He does the work provided for by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2160	He's doing them, in your opinion, but you're not an expert in law and constitutional law. Read Article 5. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution which provides for what Parliament should first adopt, which laws, and then we can talk about wine and brandy, about hunting and fishing. For you, they may be a liability to your laws, but for the judicial system in Serbia they should be, above all, reorganised and formed judicial bodies, in accordance with the Constitution, that we do not have lawlessness in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2161	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2162	Mr. Chairman, I guess we're all equal here, we've registered in a row, although in my case it's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 of my fellow radicals, who I don't remember the name of, in a light suit, who mentioned me in his speech, but can be led under replica. But make it a violation of Article 104. He can't get under the line, I said, Article 104. I do not dispute my fellow SRS MP's right to trust his party leaders and to think that it is true that they told him -- that General Tolimir was arrested on Bežianski Kosa, as no one can dispute my right to trust two Serbian states, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, who say he was arrested on a rural road in the Bratunac municipality and was delivered from there to The Hague tribunal. I don't argue that the police were in that apartment where General Tolimir was allegedly hiding, but not that night and that night, where some old documents were found, because the new one couldn't even have a man on the international APB, but one more thing I have to tell Mr. Radicals, who are now quite nervous. You can't have double arches. You can, but then it's called different. You cannot appeal to international law, the Charter of the United Nations, Resolution 1244, when we defend Kosovo and Metohija without recognising the UN-led UN tribunal of The Hague. Having a problem with that, it doesn't matter to me that you don't respect your president, Mr Vojislav Seselj, who voluntarily surrendered to The Hague tribunal and went there to defend himself and, as we can see, defend himself. Here, for four years, they can't even file charges against him, and they can't start a trial. If he can surrender voluntarily, I don't see why you would call on others who are on an international warrant not to surrender voluntarily and why you would accuse the state of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of what they are doing under the law and what, by their own laws, they are obliged to do. It is our international obligation, but also our internal obligation under our laws, whether you like it or not. And Mr. Vojislav Seselj respected it and voluntarily went to The Hague to defend himself...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2163	Mr. Shormaz, time's up, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2164	... Which is much more honorable than those who have allowed them to be arrested. I would take this opportunity to invite all the remaining defendants, like General Mladic, to behave the way Mr. Seselj did, to surrender voluntarily and to go to defend themselves there and prove them innocent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2165	The messenger of the people, Jovan Damjanovic, came to the word, and the messenger of the people, Pai Momchilov. It goes in turn, all according to Business, Jovan Damjanović, Paja Momčilov, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Martinović, Milos Aligrudić, Slavisa Topalović, Aleksandar Vukic. We can be flexible. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. An explanation - one of the MPs took his place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's okay for us to have Carla del Ponte's skaters here. To inform you, Mr. Shormaz, Carla del Ponte left Belgrade, Rade Bulatovic received a chocolate from Carla del Ponte, which we managed to find out. I don't know what you expected, but this time you won't get anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2167	Mr. Wolf, do you have to tell us by what member of the Rules of Procedure you're talking about chocolates and gifts?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2168	It is about the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that one of the people who is particularly controlled by the National Assembly, some foreign representatives are giving to the chocolates, and so far they've only donated us to the sacks, which are sanctions. Now something Mr. Shormaz was just talking about. Although they calculated that they could go through what they had repeated countless times, what they had released through some of their media as special operations, as it seemed to have arrested on the bridge, they later remembered it was stupid to have the arrest right on the bridge, even though they painted the bridge. But don't think they're so capable of taking a camera and taking pictures of the bridge. No, they downloaded the Google footage and showed that General Tolimir was arrested there. Interestingly, an extremely interesting, intelligent general and perhaps the most capable Serbian general is arrested on a five-metre bridge wide, and on the one hand there are police checkpoints. I don't know who would have thought of that. Unbound for all this, then he remembered Mr. Shormaz saying it was on the village road to Bratunac. I've been checking the country roads for a little bit at Bratuntz's on the map. That's not right next to the Drina border, Mr. Shormaz. What does that have to do with your police? Then what did the police of the Republic of Serbia do? Or it was the police of the Republic of Serbia, in the intelligence sense, who found out that he was in a village near Bratunca and went on a country trip to Bratunca. Let's just get out of your jokes and your nonsense right now, and let's get rid of all the nonsense you've said in the last few days. There is one very important thing - don't insult Serbia's intelligence and don't insult and lie to the citizens of Serbia, because no one has the right to do so in this country. The representatives of the state authorities have also silenced because they are ashamed to lie more. The Dodiks are asking where he was arrested. "I have received information that it is in Republika Srpska, but it is only important that Tolimir is arrested. “ That’s Dodik’s answer. Because even he, and it was by the system -- ask the liar brother, and that brother is lying, even, a shame to lie so much and to say that he was arrested in Republika Srpska's territory. It's just that you're not ashamed and I know it doesn't concern you very much, and I know that none of you are worried about it. You found another topic. There'll be a hundred mobs every time there's a big topic where you're handing someone over in black sacks, and there's not one minister in any mob.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2169	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2170	Two ministers -- Sava Vlajkovic and the other one -- were arrested at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's government, I think Ignatovic. In your time, all the over-priced ministers, and all those ministers together, they don't have as much money as one of your ministers has. Who's the mob and who's there?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2171	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2172	I'm done, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2173	We can't talk about ministers like that, and time's long gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2174	I can, Mr. Albianic, as I will, because I mean it all, and there are citizens to assess it. Just, for a little while, let me finish. They can show themselves here, with all the signatures, seduced with all the documents, as you can see, official notes that clearly speak about where, how and when Zdravko Tolimir was arrested. It may be near the country road in Bratunc, but it certainly isn't. It's a Bratunac on the Bezian hair. They say that in that apartment, when it happened, otherwise, the arrest, which matches exactly that moment, was found a passport...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2175	I ask you to forward these official notes to the competent authorities to verify authenticity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2176	The passport of the Republic of Serbia number 18353 and a health book called Zdravko Tolimir, JMBG 2711948380014, in the cabinet of the living room, a black male wallet with a ID card, driver's license, a check card of the Post Office and a monthly GSP card, all in the name of Tolimir Zdravko. It also says the name of the person who examined it and who the BIA faces were with that face. If it's some common theft, I'm sorry, or heavy theft or robbery, what do three BIA faces do, or what does one FBI person or some other foreign organization do? Please and thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman, I ask that you no longer deceive citizens and not tell people that white is black and black is white. One more thing to know, we see what you're doing today and you can do anything, you're very powerful and you're very strong. You don't know which one of you is more powerful and stronger, you don't know which one of you has a greater power, whether or not it's yellow, whether or not the DSS, whether or not the G17. Never has such a force ruled Serbia, but, above all, the force to kidnap, to take what belongs to the people. Don't get one thing out of your mind, I'm telling you now and remember that. You've done a lot of things, you've made up laws on lustration where you're going to prosecute those who think otherwise, because you can't find them a violation of the law, so now some committee is going to decide. There's nothing you haven't done in the previous period against political opponents. I'm just telling you -- for what you're doing, for all the black sacks you put on the heads of Serbian generals and Serbian officers, for how you arrested Milosevic and Tolimira, all those who participated in it will be held accountable to justice and will end up behind bars eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2177	Allow me, since we were tolerated to change the order, I would like to ask the head of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Milos Aligrudic to take the floor according to the Rules of Procedure, and we will continue after the Rules of Procedure. We need to be tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2178	It is, of course, Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure, regarding Article 100. First I'm going to talk about this, and I'm not just talking about the previous speaker, I'm talking about, at all, the course of the debate and I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Article 100, paragraph 1, states: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. “ It’s okay, and it was mostly respected. Now we've made a few exceptions, I don't think there'll be any in the future. In Article 104, which we most often call here today, I have had the opportunity to listen to this parliamentary debate, there is talk of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is really very difficult to get into the motives of one who goes out for a pay phone and feels that, in his opinion, the dignity of the congregation has been violated, so he has an unsustainable need to say this about this speaker and to apply his right to Article 100. I think that's okay and that's not a problem. However, I would like to say that I too have such a need, that I feel that in some way Article 104 in this house is injured, that he is insulted all day today, by all those who say what they have to say or those who hear that their predecessors have said absolutely the same thing that they later repeat. Believe me, if you claim and think that's exactly what you say, or if we're convinced that what we're saying is true, that truth will not be greater because of what you say 40 times. That's what someone used to think, earlier, before the Second World War in Germany, he had this kind of tactics and thought that if 50 times something was said -- it was automatically true. I'm not saying that those who say what they say here say tell lies. That's not what I'm gonna say, I can't say, I can't say, just because I don't know, and I don't know why someone can't tell the truth without knowing that he's told the truth, to make sure that what he's saying is true. That can happen to any of us, and every member of Parliament here has the right to say some of his point and use these Rules of Procedure to say it. Please, and this remains at the request level, one request is to those who do this and who have such political tactics, and the other request is sent to the chairman. The first request is, if you intend to say something and apply the provisions of Rules of Procedure and the rights of Rule 100, which no one will dispute, it doesn't occur to me either, because that's exactly what I'm doing right now, isn't it enough to say one thing at least 10 times and the same thing for all of you to understand what you're saying? I would like to say to the chairman that it is still necessary, not this chairman, but any chairman who holds the presidency today, just don't get me wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2179	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2180	It is necessary, however, after every statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, that one brief explanation and always asks the MP whether he is satisfied with the explanation, whatever the contents of what the MP thinks is hurt, because otherwise it becomes nonsense. If we are talking about some other things that concern respect for the Constitution and the constitutional law, and just to begin to respect the constitutional law, we must respect the dignity of one and the other, respect the dignity of this house, and yet at one point allow the debate to take place and discuss these essential issues. So we'd like to see what the goal is. If the aim is to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is possible, according to this same Rules of Procedure, 45 the following days, there is no problem, but if the goal is really what these exhibitions say, that it is really doing according to the Constitution and that the Constitutional Law is respected, then it must also be made possible at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2181	We've tried and we've been trying all along to explain the problem of violations of the Rules of Procedure, but MPs don't accept explanations. We did everything we could to go in that sense. I have a message for the MPs. We have quite lost time in the work so far, in today's day, and therefore, on the basis of Article 85(5), we are extending the work of the National Assembly until the principle debate on these united points is completed. I really wish we had no reason to continue the work, to start the agenda, but I have to, just in case, extend it to four hours. Thank you for understanding. I really hope that we will end up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and allow the MPs to expose the matter to the proposed law. According to the Rules of Procedure, several other MPs have been reported. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting to point out, in front of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, at the violation of article 83 in full and in part of article 84 in the second position. In Article 83, it reads: "The draft agenda of the National Assembly can only include those proposals of the acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure." What's obvious here now is that a marathon, a multi-hour debate is being conducted and that by the position of the opposition MPs, they resent being obstructed. No, we're not obstructing, we're just pointing out that this parliament is breaking down the legality and that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not being respected. We'll do it again, we'll repeat it a hundred times as it breaks the Rules of Procedure. Infringement by non-application of Article 5. The constitutional law, which clearly defines the agenda of the second session of this assembly. Both MP Krasic and Mr Batić have shown you the tax, listed how this is broken, that you deliberately make out of this assembly what someone will call a circus, and yet others will call it a fair; it is a matter of absoluteity, how people feel and how they tend to those institutions that I now mention, it is more than clear. Namely, what is now being demonstrated here? It is clearly demonstrated here, because we have told you that when the President of the National Assembly is elected, he must be qualified, it is absolutely proven that our President of the Assembly is not qualified. It doesn't have to be. He can be competent, he can't even be competent, he didn't get it based on some long-term experience. The proof that he's neither qualified nor competent is that he's not here. He's just outed another person. The bill promoter, too, hasn't been in this room for a long time, doesn't follow this debate. So, what's quite clear now is that we are now in doubt, and I will not believe that this is true, that my young colleague is an irresponsible person. You pushed him forward here, you made him act beyond the law, past the Constitution, to violate the Rules of Procedure. He certainly doesn't want to, I'm convinced. Now you're making him an irresponsible person because he's not here. He has to sit here because there's a serious debate going on. It's his explanation that we have a agenda like this today and that we meet at 12 p.m. on Friday. Well, wait, we are Europeans, in which European Parliament you have this kind of work, to schedule a session Friday at 12 o'clock and to schedule an emergency procedure, and the material is not delivered to the MPs to see it, but can I see it right before the beginning of the session? What does that mean? You of this House are making 'a train without a timetable', as a colleague of the president would say, because this Parliament is increasingly like that. You're making a circus out of this House and you want to have an irresponsible debate here on legal proposals. You're exorcising the MPs, who arrived from their cities and villages this morning, here harassing them to sit late in the night, to work in a non-physiological, abnormal way. That's not how it works in Europe, gentlemen. Don't lie to take us to Europe anymore. You're taking us to chaos. You're not taking us to Asia, you're taking us to Africa, you're taking us to chaos, and that's the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2183	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2184	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party think they've already pointed enough to you to violate our country's highest legal act and supporting laws. It is obvious that you are not particularly interested in this, but before I say what it is and what the relationship of the Serbian Radical Party MPs will be, I will point you to the next thing. Earlier, Mr. Aligrudic, giving us a tirada and a lecture, said that some in World War II repeated something 50 times, so they thought it was true. I don't know who you mean, Mr. Aligrudic, whether Mr. Tadic or Mr. Kostunica. They look like both of you to me. All day long, on all televisions, I watch nonsense about joining something, but with minus 15% of the territory, because they openly advocate the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. A hundred times I've seen a village road near Bratunc, where no one has lived for three years, or two peasants have gone on a bike, and you've caught Tolimir there. Every day I look at your lies, how the people in Serbia live as in Switzerland, approximately, rich and successful, and only the opposition bothers you, only you are bothered by the Serbian Radical Party, it's our fault. We've got people here who, in the worst possible way, insult us when they get out of this room, from Mrs. Kolundjia, there's no word they don't say, about fascisoid ideas, about the fascisoid approach, about what. Yes, Mrs. Kolundzija, that's what you said, and this is what Mr. Aligrudic said. Is that your policy? Oh, no, it's not her, it's Mrs. Markovic, I'm sorry. I got it mixed up, I'm sorry. It's Mrs. Markovic, I knew she was some kind of genius, but I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia. It didn't even look like you, and Mrs. Markovic looks exactly like me. She wants it, she thinks she's very smart, she just can't go to the assembly pay phone and say it. Let me tell you, Mrs. Markovic, I respect every MP of the people very much, but I must tell you that the Fascisoid ideas represent you. Now we're going to talk about Fascism theory and what it is that represent such ideas...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2185	Please, Mr. Wolfie, that's a long time ago. We're not going back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2186	That's what I thought until I saw you in power, Mr. Albianic, all along with those. I was convinced it was so, Mr. Albianic, until I saw those who just didn't tell us about the blue blood. Radicals, well, there's some incriminating, snotty, like this and like that, and we, we're blue blood, we're democratic forces, we're the ones who can and must take this Serbia to the future, because these would lead to the past. It's fascism, Mrs. Markovic. But what I do to you, only you attack the Serbian Radical Party, it clearly states what fear and panic the regime of Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica are in. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we don't have that kind of problem. We only represent people's interests. We will always be on the side of the citizens of Serbia and the side of the truth. How come it didn't occur to you to ask us where we got the information where Zdravko Tolimir was arrested? How did we know before Tolimir said he was arrested in Serbia that he was arrested in Serbia? Do you want me to tell you how? Here you can see your defeat, in the fact that the people of the service you control are delivering both papers and information, because these people are fighting for freedom and waiting for freedom like the cold sun, waiting to see your back, waiting for them to never see you again at any state function. That's why we got it all, and you still didn't get it. You still don't have names to catch, let alone know who all the people who help Serbian radicals are. You see, that's why we in the SRS always make decisions in accordance with citizens' interests and keep them informed of what's going on in our country. Therefore, Mr Albianic, regardless of what you did not deserve, which the government did not deserve, the SRS will not obstruct your work in Parliament, but you will move on to the agenda, but you will also see in the agenda what you have done and how you have done. Let me remind you, there is no Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda today. Yesterday, those whose name is not Kosovo and Metohija spoke at lunch, and we can't talk about Kosovo and Metohija for breakfast, neither for dinner nor for breakfast, nor for breakfast, lunch or dinner, because you're not interested in it, because you're not interested. The only thing you're interested in is where, in which public enterprise, which public office and how much money there is, and nothing more. That's why, Mr Albianic, the MPs of the SRS will no longer appear before the agenda, because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, but in any case, we will point out to the public and citizens in every place, but also to you here that you can't treat most of the people like they're contagious, and you're, like, enlightened and very smart, except you can't tell us that when we're in a direct duel, but somewhere where there's no radicals. Preferably, if there are three or four of you, to defend one another from your own opinion. Anyway, I'll thank you for your attention. I just want to point out to you the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are a much more important topic than any accession and fascisoid ideas of Mrs Markovic and some others in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2187	National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia have not obstructed Parliament's work by any procedure. They're doing their job and they'll do it in the future. I would also like to inform you that in the course of the session, before working on the agenda points, our MPs will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, unless you blame it and expect to shoot an unguarded goal, do not expect yourself to be dribbling. Expect us to oppose you every time there is a valid reason. I'm recapitulating what you've done and what we've been talking about. You've done a few things wrong. Permanently, since the constitution of Parliament, you have violated the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. There's no reason for that. The SPS MPs will honour any agreement with the President of Parliament to which the head of our parliamentary club responds and who agrees to what was the topic there, but you gentlemen do not respect the arrangements reached by Parliament's president with the heads of parliament clubs. When you learn that, then you'll have some easier conditions to do here. You don't have a quorum every day at board sessions where you make most of it. You are withdrawing five or six points of the agenda that we have indicated to you that they are not in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. This morning, you failed to ensure that your proposal was passed on to the Finance Committee, except that you did not predict that we would understand that you did it for special political reasons, because your non-programme coalition is unable to withstand Jelasic's mandate for another five years, but you consider it easier to stop it in two years. So don't be mad at us. We're doing our job here. We didn't schedule Parliament's session by sending material to you this morning, you sent it to us. We didn't say there was going to be a session of Parliament on Monday, so today is Friday. It wasn't our fault Parliament didn't ambush for ten days. We did not prevent you from doing anything, on the contrary, from choosing a government with other opposition parties within a minute until midnight. In order not to interpret that we have this kind of political interest or that kind of political interest, our top political interest is Serbia and in this regard we do not change the thesis. So I'm asking you in the future, there's no reason for you to do that. The Socialists keep their word. When you make a deal with us, you don't have a problem with us. But you are in violation of the agreements that you are initiating and for which your President of Parliament is guaranteed. When you change that, then you'll have, as you say, more normal working conditions. Don't expect us to give you a quorum at work-body sessions, vote for your proposals and sit here and admire your political skills. Our job is something else, and we're going to do it with a full political heat and a lot of energy. We will do this every time we feel it is important, and it is important because we have a responsibility to those who vote for us, as you have to those people who have rounded up a regular number in front of your party's name or coalition. In that sense, I thank you, Mr. Chairman, it's been six, seven seconds since the scheduled time. I also want the debate to begin on issues that are not the most significant. There's more important, but here, you put it the way I explained it in the agenda and, as you might say, let the game begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2189	I thank you for your understanding. Let's get to the agenda. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search (16.05) on points 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION AND COMPETITION OF THE CITIZER'S CITIZER'S LAWS - A PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE APPLICATION OF FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLICANT, AND - A PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENT OF THE State’S REVISION OF THE INSTITUTION. Do the representatives of the promoter, the People's MPs of Nada Kolundzija and Suzanne Grubjesic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2190	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, in Article 5, says the choice of Citizens' Protectors and Information Commissioners is being implemented after the harmonisation of the Law on the Trustee and the Citizens' Protector. Among other things, this is why it is impossible at the same session and to adopt the law and to choose those who are elected under this law, because compliance with the Constitution actually refers to those provisions which determine the way the elections are chosen and the way they are called off. The basic provisions of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law refer to the fact that the Law was adopted in 2005. The Constitution at the time did not know the institution of the Protector of Citizens. The new constitution defines the constitutional position, jurisdiction, way of elections and the manner of impeaching the Protector of Citizens. In that sense, only those members of the Law that come out of the obligation to the Constitution are changed to lead the process of electing the Protector of Citizens according to the provisions of the Constitution. So instead of a provision that said that the Citizens' Protector was elected by the majority of the votes of the National Assembly MPs present, the member is changing and harmonising with the constitutional provision, which says - the majority of the votes of all MPs are elected by the Citizens' Protectors. In the same way, provisions on Deputy Protectors of the Citizens are harmonised, as well as on the procedure and procedure for the shift. So what is changed by this law is the only direct application of constitutional provisions that define the way the Guardians of Citizens are elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2191	Does MP Susana Grubjesic want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Susan Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance today is on the agenda. Otherwise, the Law on free access to information of public importance entered into force on 2 November 2004. Certain provisions of this law need to be brought into line with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal that you have all received shows that it is not about numerous additions or amendments to the Law, but only changes six members, in those positions that need to be brought into line with the Constitution. I will count them: The National Assembly, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, elects the Commissioner for Public Information and his deputy, and decides, on the proposal of the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, in the same way, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, on the termination of the duties of the Commissioner and his deputy. The Assembly Committee on Culture and Information shall determine whether there are reasons for the resolution of the Commissioners and on the basis of the initiative of one third of the MPs. The amendments provide that the Commissioner, within the limits of his competences listed in the Law, may initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of laws and other general acts. Today, more than 30 countries are guaranteeing their citizens the right to free access to information of public importance, and more than 50 countries have regulated free access to information by law, while in some 30 countries the law is at the stage of preparation or adoption. In addition to the countries, the public principle in their work, the availability of information, is handled by individual international organisations, and I will mention the example of the European Union, whose agreement on the establishment of a statement speaks of the availability of data owned by its parliament, commissions and councils of ministers, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU guarantees the citizens of the Union free access to this information. Most countries that passed the law on free access to information were seen in the US law of 1974, which was complemented in 1996 by the rights to the availability of electronic visions of information, in part to regulate the obligation of institutions to publish information on the internet. Serbian citizens are entitled to free access to information owned by public authorities for the first time, so-called. "a small charter", i.e. the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, and in full sense, Serbian citizens have acquired this right by passing the Law on free access to information of public importance. I also mention that the adoption of this law meets one of the formal conditions for our membership in the Council of Europe. Free access to information of public importance is a condition for the quality and efficient enjoyment of other human rights and freedoms, freedom of opinion, the right to information, electoral rights and is an irreplaceable instrument for controlling the work of the state. This right opens the way for citizens to participate in public affairs and decision-making processes without intermediaries, and to have an impact on their content and effective implementation. So, since 1 November 2004, that famous sentence -- I can't give you that information -- is no longer a good excuse for government officials to talk to citizens or media representatives. Of course, as always, it is much easier to pass the law than to fully apply it, regardless of what our law on free access to information is viewed as good, modern and advanced by the local, foreign and professional public. We are witnessing that opponents of the application of this law are in the traditional and conservative part of society, because the law raises a number of interests of individuals and groups, which are very different. Advanced societies are also recognised by whether they have passed a law on free access to information of public importance and whether it is effectively implemented. We have fulfilled this first condition, and I will speak of another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2193	I would like to inform you that the representatives, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, are the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and in front of the Liberal-Democratic Party, are the MP Vesna Pesic. We need to discuss further work. I suggest that we have that one-hour break that follows us during the day, and that the heads of the parliamentary groups go right behind it. I have to ask now. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) After the break, we continue. One hour's break and we'll continue at 17 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you for understanding. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution and the Law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. On a proposal from the head of the DS Parliamentary Group, the assembly majority agreed this morning to merge these three points into one point -- for a principle debate, which is simply amazing. If certain points are combined and discussed together, then there should be some logical link between those points, although it is not acceptable either. Because what does a proposal and acceptance mean to combine three or I don't know how many agenda points into one point? That just means that the ruling majority wants to prevent opposition MPs from talking about proposals on the agenda. This means that you have three times shortened the time of debate that, according to the Rules of Procedure, which is still in force, we have. The only thing we could say is that it's common to these three proposals is Article 5. Constitutional law, which you once again did not respect, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we have spent all day trying to convince the assembly majority, the president or the chairman of Parliament, that they must take care of obligations under the Constitutional Law. When, at some point, we realized that we did not want anyone to be able to say that we were in any way obstructing the work of this Parliament and when we said that we would no longer warn about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Law, then the proposing representative came out and tried again to convince us that we were wrong all day, that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure or Article 5. Constitutional law. This is really amazing! We had the same story on May 30th, when we warned you about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and this member. And then you also convinced us that we were wrong. After a week you realized that we were right and that you must at least respect the Constitution, or constitutional law. Why today, someone here said we were wasting our time, but I don't accept it. When MPs speak in this House, they never waste time. We're wasting time. You can estimate whether that time has been spent in vain or not, but, in any case, it can't be lost time. Time has been lost for three months, as long as it took you to put the government together, to form a congregation majority. It's been wasted as long as it took you, Mr. Dulic, to consult, as you said, the expert public, to explain to you whether you violated the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Law. It's a waste of time, and what we're doing here isn't lost, you can just say it's a waste of time. I have to remind, for the sake of the public and for the stenogram, first of all, that Article 5. The constitutional law says: "The newly elected composition of the National Assembly during the first session, after the government's election, will comply with the laws governing the Constitution: The Protector of Citizens and the exercise of citizens' right to notification and select the Citizens' Protector, the authority responsible for monitoring citizens' rights to notification, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the State Auditory Institution. So it's amazing that this is how you think the MPs are, that Serbian citizens are under-educated, stupid, I don't know what kind of people they are. Simply, you insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, insult the intelligence of the MPs, when you think we will accept that you have now fulfilled half the obligations of Article 5, and now we have to accept it as if there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure or violation of the Constitutional Law. Mr. Dulic, I've just received information that there is no TV transmission of this session, so please take a break, see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2196	Of course, it has to be checked. I'm taking a break until the TV feed is secured. I'm taking a break right up to 5:00 p.m. and 30 minutes. I'm sorry, the Dnevnik didn't have any transmissions. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since we have made sure that the TV broadcast has started, continues the authorised representative of the SRS, Ms. Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have three draft laws on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution and a Proposal for a Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. These three draft laws were to be found on Parliament's agenda, at the first session, at the first session we had after Parliament's constitution. The congregation's majority didn't want to understand it at the time, so we had another agenda, so we discussed the injuries of the Rules of Procedure all day long. We failed to convince either the President of Parliament, or the assembly majority, or the government representative that we could not work on the agenda that was scheduled here on May 30th, and then the President of Parliament called for help from the general public, at least said, and I guess someone from the public convinced him that he had really violated the Rules of Procedure, that he had violated the Law on the implementation of the Constitution, and today we have on the agenda what was supposed to be a week ago. Only one part of this shall fulfil the obligations laid down in Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. For the sake of the public, I would like to remind you that when we spent the whole day on 30 May convincing the parliamentary majority that they were wrong, then the president of the DS Parliament Club here convinced us that it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that it was not a violation of the Constitution and of the Constitutional Law, that everything was absolutely in line with the Law and the Constitution. Today, we have it as a representative of the legislator who we have claimed must be the first to discuss and adopt after the constitution of Parliament. Today we spent a good part of the day convincing the parliamentary majority that they were wrong and did not give the full agenda, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, Article 5. Constitutional law. A very small number of members of the assembly's majority have shown interest in participating in Parliament's work, but those who participated have tried again to convince us that we are wrong, that we are obstructing Parliament's work. I must remind, again, that, first of all, for the sake of the public, that the MPs of the SRS want the assembly majority to believe that they should act in accordance with the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure, is not any obstruction, but rather our good intention of this Parliament being what they are, that we do not undermine Parliament's dignity and level, because no one has the right to do so. You have no right, especially you who tell the media that we have to work day and night, and fly and winter, as the President of Parliament said, because we are in a hurry to pass some laws. Of course we from the Serbian Radical Party, the citizens know that, we have no problem with working hours or working days, we are always there, working and never making a problem about it; and when we work all night, our MPs sit and participate in the work. But it is really inappropriate for someone who has been distracting Serbian citizens for three months and could not agree on some congregational majority and on forming a government, to say that someone else is now guilty because we are now behind the lawmaking process. I don't just know who set that standard and what is the norm this Parliament must or should meet. Also, there is no right to invoke the obstruction of Parliament by someone who for no reason has held Parliament for a week on some leave, we have no idea why. Simply, you judge or determine when it's convenient for you to work and then do so. Please indicate that you will schedule the session for Monday, then schedule it for Friday, and you schedule it Thursday at 5:00 p.m., and only Friday morning will MPs get the material, all with the aim of denying MPs their right to work, and the obligation of MPs and MPs is to work, which means that they comment on the government's proposals, to submit amendments, to participate actively in the adoption of the law. Of course, the SRS have found ways and times and we have managed to do all the amendments we intend to do, but I simply have to draw public attention in what way you, Mr. Dulic, and the majority of the assembly are trying to work. Dulic is young, he may learn something, but he must not accept and vote for these three draft laws to be held in a single debate, because this means, gentlemen of the assembly majority, that MPs who wish to participate in the work have been prevented from using time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you've reduced our time of debate three times over these laws, and these three laws have absolutely nothing to do with each other, nor can they be in a united debate. I would like to point out once again that you did not respect Article 5. Constitutional law, because you did not put the choice of Citizens' Protectors on the agenda, the authority responsible for monitoring the exercise of citizens' right to information, the governor of the National Bank and the authorities of the State Auditing Institution. The explanation we heard you didn't do it has nothing to do with logic, but, worst of all, it has nothing to do with this Article 5. Constitutional law. One of the laws we are talking about today is the bill on amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. We are told here that since this law has been passed in Parliament, no one can say that a citizen or any institution, or anyone interested, can or will not receive information and that it will never happen again, we cannot inform you about it. I want to inform you, dear colleagues, that you, with this law and without this law, what you want to hide, hide, as you did and as you do these days. I would also like to stress that the Serbian Radical Party and our parliamentary group have no objection that there is this law in Serbia and that there is a Protector of Citizens, but not in the way you predicted it. So, you said that this law, like these others, is changing to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm going to tell you that it's simply not true. It is true that you are in some part harmonising the laws with the Constitution, but in all these three laws you have broken and something that suits you, of course, and that has absolutely nothing to do with the obligation of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why, for example, in Article 3 you provided that the Protector of Citizens and Deputy Protector of Citizens cannot be members of political groups, it said - an organization, and now you've crossed the "organisation", so you wrote - the party. It's hypocritical that you write things like this in law, when it's generally known that you've never chosen a non-partisan personality in seven years. You never and never will, so there is no need for any law by people who are members of a party to be released in any way and not allowed to do any work and perform any function in the Republic of Serbia. What does this mean, does this mean that people, citizens of Serbia, should be persuaded and forced not to join parties and not engage in politics? Gentlemen, it is important that this civil defender does his job in accordance with the law and does it professionally, that he does not represent political parties and, of course, parties representing the coalition in power. If he's members of your party, it doesn't really matter. Of course it will be, you've shown it so many times. Here, you claimed that the president of this committee who identified Djelic's 11m euros, it was the Committee on Conflict of Interest, that you placed a non-party figure on the head of that committee, and we see how impartial it is when he says it is – yes, it is true that Bozidar Djelic was late a few days to report 11m euros, but did not break the law. They did not engage in where Djelic came from 11m euros, they said they had no possibility under the law, but at least they should have wondered if Djelic would have reported those 11m euros that Aleksandar Vukic from the pay phone did not call him the Duke of the "Meridian Bank", and then explained that he had these 11m euros in those actions. Only then did Bozidar Djelic deign to report his property. And you call it non-partisan officials! So don't be hypocritical, gentlemen, and don't limit the people who are members of any party, so they can perform the functions provided for by the laws adopted in this House. You also said that citizens' representatives and deputy citizens' protectors can't make statements of political nature, so you deleted it from this proposal. We in the Serbian Radical Party think there is no need to delete this, but we should just say that the Protector and his deputy must not represent the interests of any political party. In Article 19 of the basic law, which is a member of the 9th law we are discussing today, you have provided that the Citizens' Protector is authorised to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of other regulations and general acts governing issues related to the rights and freedoms of citizens. In this proposal, you deleted the words "which regulate issues relating to the freedoms and rights of citizens". We, by amendment, have suggested that you return this, because you cannot give anyone a completely free hand, each must be legally restricted, in order to be able to perform the function on which you place it. When it comes to the law on free access to information of public importance, e, you boasted that you did a great and capital act because you passed this law and because we have the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. For this, one of the parliamentarians said that it would never happen again that the citizens would not get the information they were looking for. That's just not true. I ask you to ask your trustee why he never provided the "Greater Serbia" version with information related to "Mobtel", which one did the editorial ask him to do? Why didn't you explain, and why he didn't explain how it could have been Velimir Ilic's concession agreement to declare it a state secret? You can do anything, right? You're right, Meso. I don't know how long it'll take. So, how, besides this law and the Commissioners, can it happen that Velimir Ilic says that the concession agreement is a secret and that neither Parliament nor citizens nor anyone living in Serbia can know what the contract says? How can you brag about this law when you're hiding the fact that you're trying to hide it, but it's not working, the fact that General Tolimir's been arrested on Bezian hair? Why don't you both get the expression of this law and trustee? Why does the Commissioner not ask the authorities to tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia, and the truth is what General Tolimir says, what the neighbours of Bezaniska Kosa say and what the Serbian Radical Party says. It is true that General Tolimir was arrested on the Bezanian hair and it is true that the fact is hidden, because Vojislav Kostunica does not want to disappoint voters, whom he promised he would never deliver to The Hague tribunal. This law has six members, and it would be said to be a small law, but they hide here and how they hide some loops that have nothing to do with it, I repeat, with the Constitution. You predicted to choose the trustee for a seven-year period. I'm really wondering where you've been for seven years. You've already offered us that bill, it'll probably be on the agenda next week, about the government and state officials, where you plan on setting up state secretaries and other officials for five years. You gentlemen are going to expose all your party officials to state functions, in accordance with the laws you bring here, and then you don't care if there's going to be a choice, whether there's going to be a choice, you have your own officials. But there will be choices, there will be a new government, there will be a new assembly. That new congregation will change your laws. Don't be alarmed that any of these you set for five or seven years will survive in those functions when there is another congregation majority, but after the next election. This is what you predicted for Deputy Commissioner. You have provided for in Article 5: "If the same person is re-elected as the Trustee or Deputy Commissioner before his term expires, his term shall cease after seven years of the first election and may be re-elected." I really don't know if whoever wrote this understands this; obviously, there's just a missing photo here. You should have put a photo, to know, that whoever is in doubt knows exactly who the amendments to the law apply to. We'll talk more about it when we talk about details. In this and in all three laws, we have put an amendment to this last article, which you provide that these laws take effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", because there is no reasonable reason to violate the Constitution without a valid explanation, that you apply the exceptions provided for by the Constitution, because three months you did not want to work, because now you did not want to work, because today you have interfered when the MPs of the opposition said that we will no longer talk about the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, here, I've used 20 minutes and seven seconds, and I haven't been able to say a word about the third bill. This is proof of how you steal time from the MPs. But we'll talk in detail about every law. We will not vote, Serbian radicals, for none of your laws, because in every proposal you have, in addition to what is your constitutional obligation, something else to read among the ranks, and what should be used to satisfy your party officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2199	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party, the authorised representative, Mrs Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2200	For the Liberal Democratic Party, these laws are of paramount importance, because, above all, they apply to human rights. When it comes to the institution of the State Auditor, we need to draw attention to that, as you know, the budget has been out of control for three or four years, so this really is of paramount importance. However, we noticed that the legislator of this bill, first of all, when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, and then to the addition of the Law on Access to Information, did not do it pedanically. The first thing we would say is why it was necessary, in terms of harmonising with the Constitution, without any need at all, to introduce the assembly majority of the total number of MPs, because it is automatically applied, since it is now a constitutional provision, to all such laws where the Assembly decides on its electoral powers. If we were to waste time putting a congregation majority of the total number of MPs in each such law, the absolute majority, meaning 126, it would be a useless job that would waste a huge amount of time. We find that unnecessary, which I will show especially when I get to the access law. When it comes to the Law on the Protector of the Rights of Citizens, we note that the law has tried to insist on the independence of the Ombudsman, by strengthening the provisions on his immunity, then ending all other public functions, that he cannot be a member of political parties. We draw attention to the fact that the independence of the Ombudsman existed in the earlier proposal of this law in 2005, where the problem was that the Ombudsman was proposed not to perform any function in the executive or other authorities at least 24 months before, as it was done in the Vojvodina law. However, as we can see, it is not accepted and here we are making a really significant observation - that the law did not ultimately respect that the Ombudsman must indeed be independent. In addition, this addition to the Law insists that the Ombudsman, the Protector of Citizens, cannot make statements of political nature. We generally agree with this proposal, because it should not interfere with concrete political issues. But given the experience we have had so far with the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, for free access to information of public importance, we have seen how many times the executive authority has put a great deal of pressure on such ombudsmans, it can happen this time, that strong pressures are being made and that, in doing so, there is a political situation that cannot be answered by that pressure. Also, whenever it comes to human rights, it's always kind of a political issue. It cannot be excluded when it comes to human rights that it has a certain political dimension. In that sense, our club, the Liberal-Democratic Party, is asking that the motionary explain what he meant by saying that no statement of political nature can be made, because this can indeed lead to great misunderstandings. We know that the executive power still has an impact on the judiciary and that there may be major misunderstandings and that the rule of law is at stake. In addition, we believe there is no reason why, when it comes to the suspension of the Ombudsman or his deputies, a simple majority is sufficient. There's no reason for that efficiency, as it's said in the explanation, because it can also be folded, if someone doesn't like it, so it can have these 126 votes suspended, if necessary. We therefore propose not to allow the suspension to be a smaller number of votes than most of the total number of MPs. It would be very good and that, later on, in particular, we will point out, when it comes to the Ombudsman, it can interfere and protect the rights arising from the international agreements that have been ratified with us, not just what is under the Constitution and other general acts, which is also one of the failures. What I have just added, we will discuss in detail, through our amendments. But this, when it comes to the independence of the Ombudsman and the political statements, when it comes to human rights, there may be great pressure and conflict, which we have already had a chance to see. I must say that we, as well as the public, were largely surprised by this other law, by the addition of the Free Access Act. We have also received some letters from the public showing that the public is deeply upset that these changes have even been introduced into the Law on Free Access to Public Information. If you look at Article 5. Constitutional law, I'll read it, please see if it even applies to the Access Information Act. It doesn't apply to that law at all. Here, I will read to you this article: "The newly elected composition of the National Assembly will in the course of the first session after the government's election comply with the Constitution of the laws governing the Protector of Citizens and the exercise of citizens' rights to notification... ", so what does this have to do with free access to information, nothing, "and select the Protector of Citizens and Authorities," please, which authority "is competent to monitor the exercise of citizens' right to notification". Please, the promoter is not present, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic. Why does this law mean Article 5? The constitutional law implementing the Constitution even applies to the law on free access to information? By what interpretation? This has led to a lot of anxiety. Please, we all remember what the authorities were doing when the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, was passed, where we saw it well that it had begun to happen, so that it would be adopted, "the trade of heads". One head for the other head, as it usually seems. Toads for the frog, this one for the one. Now, when this law was to be passed, it was tried not to be noticed that it was one store that was trying to fix itself somehow, and then some supplements were brought that were completely unnecessary. For one addition, I said it completely and explained it. So I explained that the majority of the total number of MPs, which you can see in the addition of the Free Access Act, is nice to stand the same, completely unnecessary; with or without that, this constitutional provision automatically refers to all such cases. Please look at another, allegedly, compliance with the Constitution when it comes to this law. Apparently, the trustee has the right to ask the question of the legality and constitutionality of certain general acts, and then it is said in the very explanation that each state body has the right to ask the same question. Then why is it necessary if every state body, and this is a state body, has the right to ask a question of constitutionality and legality? And these are the supplements that are... Please, I have to say that this is about legal acrobatics, that at all costs, it wants to be further harassed by the public, that the question is whether this is a pretext, that based on such unnecessary provisions, and that it does not apply at all, as I said, to this law, this Article 5, does this want to be replaced at all costs and whether, on the basis of these changes and additions, it wants to be replaced by the Commissioner, who enjoys a great public trust?- I'm sorry. I'm not going to say here how many people and organizations have signed and asked us to react to the fact that public officials, who have been completely savingly carrying out their tasks, in this way, means, by disposing of legality, are trying to change forcefully. Our MP group invites all MPs to remove this false proposal from the agenda, because it does not apply to Article 5, nor does this law have any connection, nor should it be put in place, because it is written in the Constitution and is automatically applied. We can't understand this any differently than as one legal acrobatic, where most and the coalition didn't let us know what they were up to and what they wanted with these changes. So we suggest that this proposal be removed from the agenda, because there is no relevance, nor does it apply to Article 5, nor to anything, nor does it disturb the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2201	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary clubs or the heads of the parliamentary clubs want a word? If not, thank you. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: SRS, DS, DSS and NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica and SPS. I give my word to the MP, Jovan Palalic, and let the MP be prepared, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2202	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, undoubtedly one of the important qualities of the adopted constitution is the fact that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is defined in its text. In 2005, we proposed the proposal and part of our political programme, the Democratic Party of Serbia, to the then assembly of the Law Assembly, and the Assembly adopted it -- the Law on the Protector of Citizens. To remind ourselves of just a few basic motives why the Assembly's meeting at the time, in a professional discussion, adopted the bill and introduced a new institution, which has long-term significance in the democratisation of our society. There is no doubt that the issue of the protection of individual, concrete citizens' rights with state authorities and the very fact that the state authorities are resolving individual law, what bureaucratic awareness and way of thinking was in state bodies before citizens were thought about protecting them, motivated us to then discuss the attitude of citizens towards institutions and the attitude of institutions towards citizens when they resolve their specific individual rights. In this discussion, we have repeatedly reiterated that our state authorities, in one way that has a long tradition, have resolved these rights so that citizens have been in a subjugated position, depending on the will and way of thinking of individual officials in state bodies. Neither they adequately acted when it comes to resolving individual rights, nor have they always legally resolved individual rights, nor have the citizens been able to turn to anyone when it comes to violating their rights before the state authorities. The fact that, through the discussion, problems in the functioning of our state administration and all weaknesses were seen, the absence of democratic awareness that the state authorities should be in the service of citizens, and not to be citizens in the service of the state, prompted us to adopt such a law and to introduce into our legal system the institution of the Protectors of Citizens. This institution will undoubtedly develop in the coming period in this very way that citizens feel that an independent institution, and this law and amendments to the Law ensure that its independence is guaranteed and that the way it chooses in this assembly is something that will be the basis when their concrete rights are resolved in front of different institutions and state bodies. It is precisely the fact that we have now and by the Constitution defined the position of the Protector of Citizens or, as is usually said in our public, the Ombudsman speaks of the need of an institution like this at that time. The proposal for this law, indeed, only harmonizes the solutions that were in the existing law with the constitutional text. It is good that, in a very specific way, the institution of the Protector of Citizens is strengthened, through the way of elections. So that there is no dilemma, through all the texts about how and which most people choose, it is clearly said to the absolute majority. The qualified majority will undoubtedly be the recipient and raise authority to this institution. What is very important in this bill is the fact that the freedom of operation of this institution through the Constitution, and through these amendments to the Law, is further increased by the fact that the Protector can be authorised to propose laws from areas within its jurisdiction. It is very important that the Citizens' Protector, during one period of his work, takes note of the need for legal normation of certain issues and that, unrelated to the will of the approved legislators, he himself launched a legislative initiative before the National Assembly. It's important that we support these solutions. As for what is expected of the Citizens' Protector, it is that in the next period, it promotes a new approach in the relations between the state authorities of all state institutions towards the citizens themselves, that citizens are not afraid, that citizens from the state expect, when they enter any institution, that it is timely and legally resolving their rights and that their rights do not suffer from the will or will of individual officials or state bodies when they are before them. It is very important that timeliness, deadlines, and legality are respected. We expect the future Protector of citizens to perform this function in such a way that citizens gain confidence that when he initiates any procedure before any institution, when an infringement occurs, individual violations of the rights of citizens will be timely and resolved. Of course, as MPs, we will follow his work. The basic text of the law defines his obligation to report to the National Assembly on his work. We expect that in discussions initiated by the public defender himself, when he submits his report, we will see how satisfied the citizens are with his work and how much this institution has given its effect. We are convinced that the effect will be and that the new protecter of citizens, whom we will choose very quickly, will be in the position of citizens and will protect their specific rights in every case and place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2203	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Bosko Ristic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2204	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the assembly majority has made a decision on what the Assembly will discuss. In contrast, for us MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, several very logical issues are being raised. Namely, what are the motives and what is decisive in the congregation’s majority when proposing to the congregation to consider certain laws. Is this, first, the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution? Second, is that relevant to a question, so it requires the congregation to discuss it. Third, whether it is the congregation majority's agreement on what can, in their opinion, be the fastest and most painless subject of the work of the National Assembly, and will not be of great importance and will give the public the impression that something is being done. We, MPs of the SPS, are absolutely convinced that this is the third one, for the reason that the Constitutional Law, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, very precisely determines what the obligations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are in the first session and what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should put on the agenda. The laws placed on the agenda today are such as to say that the agenda is incomplete. Why? Article 5 The law on the implementation of the Constitution is very taxing to determine that it is necessary to comply with the Constitution to comply with the law governing the Protector of Citizens, which is the exercise of citizens' right to notification, which can mean everything and does not mean anything. We do not have the citizens' choice as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, the Constitutional Affairs Committee tried to hold a session the other night, and there was no quorum. The assembly majority failed to provide 13 MPs present to determine who could be a candidate for the Citizens' Protector in front of them. It is then said to elect the authority responsible for monitoring the exercise of citizens' right to notification. What does that mean? That's what God knows. It can be concluded that the Information Commissioner is preparing a shift, because it is obvious that this is the essence of the whole story of this law. So, the choice of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, which is not there, as well as the authorities of the State Auditing Institution, is what it has. So it's a very selective approach, but there's not one more thing to forget. Several MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also mentioned that, regardless of whether laws were adopted in the area of justice, which have to do with the election of judges of the Constitutional Court, in any case, the National Assembly was to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, either from the order of those candidates proposed by the president of Serbia, or from the order of candidates of the National Assembly, as such is the composition of the Constitutional Court. We see that none of this is on the agenda here, or that these obligations set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution are very selectively interpreted, as they correspond to the congregation's majority, and in public it may seem to work well. When it comes to the second basic question, whether issues of importance are put on the agenda, it is clear that there is no such thing; once a selective approach is made, it is not an obligation to respect the law. After all, remember last session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had three laws for which the Constitution stipulates that they can agree by 31 December 2008, and today it is June 2007. At that time, we were convinced from the promoters that, at the cost of life, the Assembly must declare that the laws must be adopted, of course without the Constitutional Court, because the provisions of this law are related to the work of the Constitutional Court, but it was essential to create space, human beings, that people and members of the SPO and other parties who are not now part of the congregation's majority can be replaced in the ministries. We'll talk about it anyway. The question arises, why was there not, for example, a matter of national importance at a session called for by an emergency procedure? I mean the question of Kosovo and Metohija, because the issue is both important and urgent and important. One of the issues raised by the Democratic Party, which is also a signator of the request for an extraordinary session, is why there was no budget of the Republic of Serbia, why the validity of those unconstitutional provisional financing regulations is not lifted. It should not be forgotten that it is absolute illegality, which exists and which lasts. The assembly majority is acting as if everything is okay, waiting for the budget, and then to stop the validity of those regulations, so as not to say that, behold, the government has passed an unconstitutional regulation. Since they're in the coalition, now everything they said bad about each other is no longer valid, it's forgotten, at least on their side, as if it didn't exist. When it comes to the combination of the law and the need of the congregation's majority, it is evident that here, apparently, the agenda is so well-conceived that something will happen, something will create conditions, and something will happen later. The point is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will very quickly elect the Citizens' Protector. One logical question arises, why so far, since it was adopted almost two years ago, why did the National Assembly not adopt the Protector of Citizens to worry about the protection of human rights and freedoms, because if there was a Guardian of Citizens, maybe this would not have happened when General Tolimir was arrested. What a fellow predecessor said, that citizens should be convinced of the impartiality of the state, etc., in the case of General Tolimir, apparently the state should have persuaded its citizens to accept everything the state does and to remain silent, to agree and not say a word against it. When it comes to the Commissioner for Information, he is definitely preparing a shift for the man, because he has, as the people would say, a "long language" in relation to the work he does. This formulation that stands in the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution and the whole story about the Trustee is very strange, definitely, in this formulation - the authority responsible for monitoring and exercising citizens' right to know about the choice of that authority, the Commissioner for Information prepares the shift. Wonders why the government, or congregational majority who likes to lecture on transparency, uses this new talk that means nothing. Why don't they say we're changing the Credentials Act to make a shift and pick a man who's gonna be better at us, because this guy obviously talks a lot. I'm not saying this by accident. If fellow MPs had the opportunity to see the report on the work of the Commissioners, then they could see what a set of questions had never been answered by any official state authority. It's worth mentioning here, because there's not enough time to read it all. Some of the issues are, for example, building a bridge at Beška and the cablers in Kopalnik, about projects in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, about the five largest investments in Serbia by the Ministry of Capital Investments, on the factual state and measures taken in connection with the "Mobtel" case, on the salaries of directors or compensations of members of administrative and supervisory boards in JP NIS and the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, the news agency "Tanjug", on fees paid on behalf of representation, testimony and crafts before the arbitration court in Zurich, in the framework of the JP PTT Serbia dispute and the companies "K Trade System" (BK Trade System). Of course, there's more. It is necessary to read this report very carefully, to see that this is about preparing a legal basis for one person to be replaced, or to choose someone else in his place. In any case, it is clear to us Socialists that this agenda should not have been the agenda that the Assembly is discussing, because here, apparently, it is about that, after that failed beginning, the congregation majority cannot agree on the essence and that ten days, which are reportedly spent to agree, in fact, confirmed that the majority of the congregation is very difficult to work. Now it was necessary to propose to the congregation some laws and to give the impression that the congregation, as a matter of fact, is taking care of something. In the end, it's a good thing yesterday's permission to continue the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but the way the government's representatives presented it in public, this congenital expression on the face, with us citizens of the Republic of Serbia leaving the impression that it would be good to hear and what's behind, why they cut off Tolimir and yesterday's license or ticket to sign the Association Agreement. It should not be forgotten that the agreement was signed two years ago. It would be good, since we are discussing these laws relating to the protection of human rights and freedoms, if there are states, and this topic will be very soon on the agenda, to hear all information relating to the arrest of General Tolimir, if for nothing else, even for one small matter, I stress this - small but important fact, that it is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2205	The People's Messenger Srdjan Sajn has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in any case, it is good for Serbia to get the Protector of Citizens, because for what has been experience in some European countries since the 1807th year, it is time for us to take some concrete steps in this direction here too. It is good that citizens feel that in some issues they are not alone, that they have someone who will support them, because within just a few months of working in the Assembly, in the Roma Party, we have had a series of complaints of citizens and a series of demands, that they do not have adequate mechanisms to fight the local administration that works under the laws of the Republic of Serbia and by certain regulations, local authorities' decisions. We need to understand the fact that we are in a period of time when we have representatives in state bodies who still think that citizens are there to serve them, not that the state authorities are there to help the citizens to make their lives better. Then it happens to us that in some institutions, especially those categories that have major problems, which are socially endangered categories, these are displaced persons, these are uneducated categories of the population, including Roma, they can't address anyone because there's no place they can do that. Therefore, we have a serious reserve for one solution. It is a good thing that there is an opportunity to organise a network of representatives of this institution of citizens' protectors in Serbia, but we are not sure. That is why we would love, when he chooses, that he should address the Assembly, as the Law states, that he will address the committee, that this highest legislature promises to provide adequate services throughout Serbia. Gentlemen, if a farmer, who has no money to reach the municipality and not to reach Belgrade, has to exercise some right, if some Roma wants it, who cannot buy a map from the mahala to get to the city centre, not Belgrade, how he will exercise his right, that he will have contact with this citizen's protector. Let this citizen's protector not only be a privilege to the city of Belgrade, only to the administrative centre of Serbia, but to make all of us together to achieve this member of the law, let him promise us all here that he will expand his service throughout Serbia, that all Serbian citizens have the opportunity to be truly their true co-worker. We also have a serious objection, and I have proposed, on behalf of the Roma Party, as a People's MP, an amendment. In fact, we need to create such a situation in the Assembly, in the electoral process, that it really be a man on whom the Serbian Parliament has declared itself, to be a person whose choice, starting to end, was attended by the Serbian Parliament, not by the Assembly Committee and only by parliamentary groups, because the assembly of parliamentary groups is not equal - the Serbian Assembly. The picture on the board is not the same - picture of the Serbian Parliament. In the way this law says, that only the board will propose that he has the exclusive right to the proposal, we limit the right of each individual MP. I think it's unconstitutional, that we have to change that. That's where I suggested the amendment. We need to create a clear representation of Serbia's citizens that the Citizens' Protector has been elected under the greatest possible democratic procedure, that every representative in this House has had the opportunity to propose it, in collaboration with others, and we propose that it be at least 20 MPs, because in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are not all political parties that participate in the work of this Parliament as their representatives. Then it's illogical to cut off certain things at that level. So, the appeal is, I'm going to end up, really creating conditions for someone we represent as the Guardian of Citizens to be elected by allowing all the representatives of the citizens in this assembly to give him full legitimacy, because only full legitimacy will give him the opportunity to respond, indeed, to this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2207	The People's Messenger Rajko Đurić has the word, and let the Messenger Gojko Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2208	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, I answered the word first for professional reasons, because I spent a great deal of my life in journalism. I fully agree with what Mrs Pesic said, because I think accepting this proposal could open the door to many unwanted things. Mrs. Pesic has already quoted some sentences. For the purpose of rational work of this session, I will not repeat it. We have enough experience in the communist period and we know well how long ago Bismark said, "Give me one sentence and I'll make an effort to bring everyone to the gallows." So, in that sense, in the name of the party to which I belong and as a national MP, I fully join the opinion of Mrs Pesic and I think that it should really put an ad act on this proposal, which concerns the bill on free access to information of public importance, because, of course, I understand, and Mr Obradovic is right, the essence of the matter is why this is proposed, and yet we are not uninformed that we do not know what it is about. So, I'm against it, because as a journalist and as soon as editor in Tanjug, I have to respect the right to free information, if it would be provided to create conditions for free information, and it's practiced by many Western European countries, starting with so-called. Green books, black books, red books, white books, etc. It'll probably be necessary for us to have it, but when we do, we'll see when the proper conditions are created. The other thing is the proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. Please, I think we generally have the wrong understanding of democracy. Professor Ekmedzic, who brilliantly analyzed it in the book "Creation of Yugoslavia", said -- with us democracy has often been practiced as a means of destroying democracy. We had magnificent Democrats in Serbia, as individuals, but we barely had democratically built institutions. Now we have heard some opinions, where the basic problem is, it is my judgment, in that we still have a completely open space between the state and society and that area, unfortunately, are meeting political parties instead of democratically built institutions and civil society. It's not about the Parliament, or, God forbid, the state setting up a trustee. The citizens themselves must set up their trustee. So it is necessary to have what is called a civil initiative in normal democratic and legal states. That's the whole point of it. Finally, we come up with a proposal that is desperately needed by this state, which is an audit institution. We don't have that, unfortunately, and that's why terrible things happen. I'll give you illustrations for, just give you examples of what's going on with the Roma. We have Mr. Ljuan Koku, who has officially received the data on the site on January 20, 1999, along with four, including 1,380,136,013 dinars via "Stankom". This man is the head of the Roma strategy today, his seat in the Federation Palace. Mr. Damjanovic knows, because he has documents like me, that he sold passports to Roma, refugees from Kosovo, at the cost of 25,000 marks. It is now still proposed that he be our "Cypian King". On the other hand, at the National Council, I won't name anyone because it's a public secret, all the money has been stolen and some of these people have been seen again in the ministries, certain ministries of the newly formed government. I said, as a party, the Union of Roma Serbia and, of course, we support the government, but that doesn't mean I agree with all the ministers. There are ministers who would, most of all, move a hundred or a thousand miles away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2209	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gojko Radić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2210	I don't know about Djelic, I'd rather talk about the town I come from. My fellow MPs, I heard that one of the previous speakers mentioned that we had a positive experience from Vojvodina, the Ombudsman in Vojvodina, and we have local, municipal ombudsmans. I would not say that this is a positive experience with the ombudsmans, because, mostly, the Ombudsmans make decisions that depend on who is in power. A little where, or very little we can find cases that in a dispute between local self-government and citizens citizens have received disputes. So, too, in the other direction, where the province was in dispute with the citizens, that they got citizens' disputes. I don't think there's gonna be any better case on a republican level and that's what's going on with each other. I'd like to list certain examples from the city I'm from. I was very uncomfortable when the talks said -- you in Subotics, there's the biggest crime, you're a crime scene. I was very uncomfortable, so I defended myself - it's not like that. It may be the same in other cities, but you keep quiet about it, you won't talk. Here, I'll give you examples from Subotica, where we spoke to the Ombudsman and local and regional, but there's no hearing and no one's responding. Let's just say we had a choice of dean in college where apparently the Dosovan government wants to keep the professor illegal; he can't be a dean because he's not a regular professor, the law doesn't allow it, he doesn't know the case that the dean can be an extraordinary professor. He's out of his mandate, he doesn't want to move, his department doesn't want to take part in the vote, and it's mostly the status quo, and we don't have a dean in Subotica. We spoke to the Ombudsman, so that they would come forward, try to put pressure on the government and the legal institutions of the state. However, it is not their jurisdiction when it is their interest. And so on. Not to list other cases, although for each of his cases, it's the hardest, especially when it comes to our citizens. What's going on? The same happens with local ombudsmen, on many occasions. I wouldn't point out these examples, but we now have this robbery in Subotic. I don't want to accuse the Democratic Party. There's no mention of names from the DS about this robbery, but DS is now in the government. It wasn't then, in the fourth month of this year, when this agreement was signed. But now he has a chance to undo something like this. I got a phone call today that they're calling me because the owner of these clubs he replaced is ready to make a deal. The Serbian Radical Party is always ready to agree and talk, but not about crime and robbery. We don't want that kind of arrangement. I don't just know what kind of call DS is about to keep quiet about all this. Let him plead, let the Democratic Party say. We've got problems with the D.A.'s, too. The lawyers react when it comes to the municipality and when it comes to interests. I, responsiblely, from this pay phone, can say that the rights of Serbs in Subotic are at stake. I can give you examples, as many examples as you want, of these very replacements of space. I can give you an example when Serbs participate in privatisation, when Serbian businessmen buy something at privatisation. We have an example of a crucible in Subotica, who bought Serbs, organized themselves, a dozen of them, and bought a nursery. What's going on? When they bought it, there was a number of goods, a high price, about 90 million; the initial value was nine, although the initial value of the other was 30, and it remained so much. But what's going on? Then we have the famous Agriculture Minister Dulic, later Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, who has done everything to take this property and the country away from these Serbs and to transfer it to the municipality. And the judiciary helped these events, about 50 hectares of this country, the court translated into the municipality of Subotica, recorded, recorded everything, so that no moment the owners who were there could react, to say anything about this case. They're citizens' rights in Subotica. Where are the ombudsmen, where are the locals, where are the provinces? I don't think it's going to be a republican commercial. How come in this case, I'm asking the question again, how come there's not even a republican prosecutor for organised crime here, how does DS, who has a director at the city building directorship, the municipality of Subotica, and she's mastering these premises, hasn't yet responded? They haven't even held a conference in our town yet. They probably will, but they haven't responded yet. But there's time. They were supposed to react, see what their opinion is and what's going on. No citizen of Subotica can accept this kind of thing. I didn't have time today, so all I did was fly over everything. I cited the example of the "Russian Emperor", i.e. that it would be the same if we could replace the "Russian Emperor" with some object on Swan Hill that is collapsing. These are such values and such is one object on Saturday's Korzo, it's a dragost Saturday, on the corner, which looks at the monument and into the fountain. It is worth twice as much as this facility, which was replaced by "Miner". What's going on with Minerva? "Minerva" was bought and privatized for 30 million and was evaluated by experts from G17 Plus. Whoever runs the agency, I don't know anymore, but the government certainly does. What happened to the workers? The owner who bought Minerva offered the workers places in his vineyards and I don't know where else to dig his vine. You can imagine people who were doing printing, printing books, etc., going to the vineyard and processing it, or going home if they don't want to. They got fired, and the state kept quiet. She was taken for six years, and nothing to anyone. Now this same firm, this ruins, is changing for seven business spaces, and we don't know the price. How do we know what the price would be if it were auctioned? What's going on? Someone will be fooled even by the name of the director of "Minerva", his name is Zoran Nikolic. You know, these great "boss" have some unfortunate people who name directors, so if they need to go to jail, they go and carry cigarettes to them. Behind all this is Lajoš Chaka, who in Subotica has a complete Engels street, yet to privatize the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce building, and ended the whole story. We've got deputies here from Saturday, so if I'm making something up, they can say it's not true. Lajoš Chaka. Do I have to do it again? What's going on? These business spaces are located in the strict center of the city and, not to be the devil, can you imagine, here, he didn't have time and nerve to wait, so he immediately sent contracts. So that I don't have all the contracts listed, here, you see, one bank is in that space for two or three decades. He directs one of our commercial companies, "Dragstor", his contract, to sign it within 15 days. The price is 11,000 euros, plus VAT 18%, which is 13,000 euros. You now calculate, in 70 days under rent, if Trade accepts a contract like this, it pays its "Minerva", it has all the business premises got mufty, with 70 days of patience. State shut up. We also have the President of the Assembly and I hope that, with the current majority they make up, they will react, that his party will do something and that these contracts will be annulled. You don't have to stop at that, it's not enough just to cancel the contracts, this is where the D.A. needs to react. There's a string of legal factors and physical faces, they're in the middle of a crime, and there's multiple participants. This couldn't have been done by two or three men. There's more here. We know that in Subotica by 2001 it was wiped out of republican property about 100 premises of business. This was established by the Committee of Auditors formed by SO Subotica, so that at the request of the Prosecutor's Office in 2003, the Ministry of the Interior entered and found that it had been deleted from 2001 to 2003 and that there was still a hundred more of those spaces, a total of 200 and some business spaces. The Republic is silent and no one is responding to anything. Where's the social defender and why isn't he responding? Do you know when he's responding? When Serbs replace or privatize somewhere, they say -- it's a social property and it can't go into privatisation, it can't be transferred, and then they take it. We don't have any cases if someone else bought them, i.e. members of the second nation in Subotica, that they reacted and were taken away by this principle. No, it is not responding, and I responsibly argue that Serbs are at risk in Subotica and have no rights like other citizens in Subotica. We have cases. Gentlemen, the ruling coalition, come to your senses, there's a limit, apply the law. We Serbs are not seeking any privileges in Subotica. All we ask is for the law to be applied, for everything to be applied. Swindle the Serbs, sell them something, and say, "Social property," and then they take it from them later, and when you sell it to others, it's not social property, it's their property. Then you let them rob more and more, different exchanges and pranks, social property. I now again urge the Republic Prosecutor for organized crime to do something about it. We will send an official memo and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to suspend this contract urgently and declare it void. We ask that the Privatisation Agency cancel the purchase contract "Minerva", because it is not respected, by driving workers out of the company itself, and there are many elements to undo this. We specifically ask the President of the Assembly to stand up for this, since he is a resident of Subotica, he is still registered there, and his party also has interests. If they don't do anything, the question is, how are you going to get through the next election?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2211	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, and let the MP Rajko Baralić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have three laws ahead of us. I think it's very important laws that basically build the constitutional system that we've prescribed with the new constitution. Of course, some laws need to be brought into line with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we do. I will refer to the third proposed law - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Auditing Institution, with equal wishes, as well as my predecessor, that the state effectively and legally combats different types of crime. I think that all of us, MPs, as well as the entire population, are the most sensitive when we feel that something is being stolen or stolen from what the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia are saying. It is the same body as the State Auditing Institution should in one independent and legal way help to spend budget money legally. I will remind you that at the end of 2005, the previous Parliament's meeting passed this law and that it was the only law that was the proposal for MPs. All the other laws were, mostly, the proposals of the Republic government, and this was the parliamentary law and was eventually passed by a large majority. What made me happy at the meeting of the Finance Committee is that almost all MPs were for these amendments and additions, because they allow us to come up with more liberally the right staff, which we will choose here, in Parliament, for the Council of the State Auditing Institutions. In fact, these changes allow the candidates to expand. I will remind you that these changes have very sharp criteria, namely, 10 years of experience, i.e. working experience, and five years of experience in dealings with the competences of the State Auditing Institution. That's the essence of this law. I would like to inform you that I have submitted an amendment, which harmonizes this law with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is also valid for all that is in the jurisdiction of our congregation to be brought to the majority of the vote. That's exactly the kind of amendment you'll get in your hands in a few minutes. That's one proposal we have no reason not to support. We are faced with the fact that the executive power is very little on the construction of those actions that control different budgets and budget money. I'll remind you that at this point, the Ministry of Finance has 15 budgetary inspectors. This is not enough to control budget money, as budget users are located in each municipality, which is 166 local self-government. There are institutions, hospitals, schools and many others who spend budget money. Therefore, strict control of budget spending should be carried out. We think this is the way, that Parliament chooses an independent body to deal with the control of budget spending, the right way. I will remind the newer MPs that this law was made following detailed reviews of the laws of neighbouring countries. We especially benefited from experiences from Canada, Russia, Slovenia, to say, neighboring countries. I hope the law itself shows full efficiency. I think that at least for this third bill we have provided not only the absolute majority, which is needed, but hopefully we will also provide the votes of almost all MPs who are to control the budget money. I call upon the MPs to shorten our presentations. I think it's time to give support to the great fighter, Serbia's Novak Djokovic, who still has a chance to get Rafael Nadal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2213	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2214	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Novak Djokovic, of course, on a special channel shows his skills, to the general satisfaction of all in Serbia, but Parliament is working on another channel and it has nothing to do with it. I will read exactly what is called what we are talking about - a joint principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, a proposal to supplement the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law on the State Auditing Institution. Very poetic and very consistent. This is a joint search on all these issues and then, of course, we need to say in these few minutes what we have to do with this. Let's not argue that it was necessary to pass the laws that this is about. What the esteemed colleague Matic was talking about is all true, except it is not true that it is the proposal of an MP. Dear counterpart Rade Obradovic has signed the Law, otherwise, the Law worked by the Finance Committee, a large group of MPs who had student visits about this, therefore, because of informing citizens. What bothers me is that I also made this point in the Committee on Culture and Information, which is the parent committee for one of these laws on amendments and amendments to the law, is that the amendment and addition of one law is like a personal solution. That's not correct. It is also not correct to lower the scale, lower the level of qualifications needed and the necessary professional and any other condition for someone to be chosen. If the law said seven years, why now five? For what? Because someone doesn't have enough qualified and motivated people ready to do this job, who have been in related jobs for seven years. Then it's said nicely, we apologize, we don't have such people, please vote for amendments and additions to this law because our party member is five years old and a day of work in this branch. It's the measure of things, not that it's wrapped up in the shores like we're not able to recognize it. We wouldn't be dealing with this if we were. The most important question about today's session is why there aren't any other agenda points here and whether it could have happened without these. There's no Mr. President, and I've just praised you, Mr. Obradovich, quite frankly. Mr Dulic said the following thing a few days ago: "As the opposition parties have indicated that there has been a possible violation of the Constitution at the previous session, I pray that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the professional public declare whether there has been a breach of the Constitution." Give it to Mr. Dulic. Today, there had to be a choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, so that Mr. Dulic, and every other citizen of this country, would turn to the Constitutional Court and ask whether the constitution was broken. That's the point. About Mr. Shabic, let me just say one sentence, even though I'm not his lawyer here. That man had one chance at life to show if he was human. As far as we and the Socialist Party of Serbia are concerned, he proved it, and I'm not going to elaborate. So, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic has shown, someone can challenge him, someone can praise him, someone can love him or not, that in a complicated political context, in one, as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia is concerned, a dramatic procedure, judges by law and rules and by facts. That's why I have an obligation to say it here, and if the ministers resented him, who were his literal associates, that's what they should say in public. He didn't deserve to be relieved by finding his locks, I apologize for the jargon, in the way you do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2215	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2216	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try not to repeat what my predecessors have already said. I would use one metaphor, so I would say that the fundamental principle established by our constitution is the sovereignty of citizens, and that is the foundation on which our society rests. The roof structure is certainly a human rights corps and freedom. There are several pillars between that foundation and that roof. It's a legislative, executive and judicial authority. We also have several smaller pillars, which are also very important, which are these three legal institutes, these are the Ombudsman, the Citizens' Protector, the Public Information Commissioner and the State Audit Institute. The protection of citizens is an institute of sui generis, as we know, and it has a very rich parallel legal tradition, but for transition countries such as Serbia is of paramount importance, since we are a society where human rights and freedoms are still being built and built. It is certain that our citizens' awareness of their rights is at a much higher level than some 20 or more years ago. However, we have one problem in the realisation of these rights that our citizens are facing. It is the Ombudsman, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, an institution that this law foresees, a dam, a constitution of self-will, or incompetence of bureaucracy, which enables citizens to exercise their rights effectively and quickly. The same applies to the Commissioner for Public Information, and especially to this third segment, since we are having a united debate, to the State Audit Agency, because, at the beginning of the third millennium, the essence of democracy and democratic processes is less about ideology and more about spending budgets compared to tax rates and tax procedures than citizens. There are several facts that need to be pointed out that are important for the Protector of Citizens, which is that he substitutes several types of government within himself, but, primarily, that it is our body, or the body of this congregation. Mr. Rajko Djuric said he should have been chosen by the people. In fact, he is directly elected by the people, he is a derivative institute chosen by the National Assembly. It corresponds to the Assembly and its specific weight stems from the fact given in this bill, to be chosen by the qualified majority, means most of the total number of MPs, as well as the Commissioner for Public Information. In any case, the Democratic Party will support the all-proposed amendments to the law, as direct, exclusive benefits from applying these standards will be given to our citizens. I would only point out that, if there were no confusion, I would remind you of the original text of the Law, that the Protector of the Citizens does not sublime the judicial authority; he cannot engage in decisions of the judicial authority, he is, above all, defended by the authorities of the administration, by the state authorities, and, I say, with one bureaucratic apparatus that you will admit, is unfairly or incompetent or arrogant. That is why it is extremely important to vote these amendments, not only to formally bring legal texts into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2217	Thank you. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, then MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2218	Dear colleagues, there is also a law on the agenda which is particularly interesting to me, in the context of this joint debate, and in the time that we have to talk about it, the law on the State Auditing Institution. Why is it interesting? From 2000 to today, the ruling coalition, in any form of DOS, has failed to secure the final account of an external auditor, or any kind of control necessary for the collection and consumption of people's money, and in the way the state always does, through its executive bodies. In the term of the last Financial Committee, the whole job, for example, about the election of an external auditor, was reduced to galatias and a return to a circle, in which the cat chases its tail, because it is not known who is responsible for calling public procurement for the purchase of that external audit service. At one point it's the Committee, or the Ministry of Finance, so when enough time is lost, then the job goes back to square one. The result is the following - there is not yet a selected external auditor to control the final accounts of the Republic's budget. To bring the viewers closer to the subject and what it means. From 2001 to today, neither the public nor the MPs received a report on how the funds were planned and secured in the budget and spent. Whether it was done by authorised users, whether they had the right to do so, whether there were abuses in spending that money, we have no record of it, no result. Even the advisor, representative of the International Monetary Fund, Harold Hirschoffer, the man of the profession and the one you respect, said that your budget items are very non-transparent, and that's not an accident. So, even when you are obliged to give a report to MPs, to the people through MPs, you do it in such a way that the traces of what is called Serbian - either direct abuse or conflict of public and private interest, if possible, are hidden or not seen. The Law on the State Auditing Institution is a law that should have allowed, as one of the first laws to be applied by the very choice of people -- which members of the Council will do this job, the seriousness in spending and controlling state resources, and not only as a control of spending, but as a purpose, as a general justification for creating certain costs. The law adopted in November 2005, was due to take effect in six months. So, in June of last year. The government didn't have time, she had a lot of jobs, because accounting for the people isn't the interest of this government. Nothing's been done, and today we're facing a whole extra job. So the law is in force and we should have chosen the people who would do the job. We are facing the amendment proposal that lowers the criteria. How do they lower the criteria? That people who do audit work should have not seven years of experience in the profession, but five. Our citizens have been well aware since the revision became a practice for an even more serious company, let alone for the state. So it's not true that we don't have people who have been doing this job for seven years. Obviously, we do not have the right people, of which we expect the government budgets, local self-government, final accounts and all documents of public enterprises, funds, public procurement, political parties' accounts to be controlled impartially. You're lowering the criteria because you want the people you drew to do it and what you're doing in such a way of choosing, so we're already adapting them to the law, predetermining them to do their job on a biased basis. You lower the criteria by saying that this job, i.e. Excluding the part that says it can be done by people who work in the government or worked at the Council of Ministers, they've been in some position two years back. So there should be an interruption of two years of their direct work, in terms of incompatibility of functions. People, you know that the Business Society Act has given such a restrictive clause as a member of the Supervisory Board, where its impartiality is defined so that neither he nor a member of his family, nor anyone else on a lateral and vertical line can be employed or worked in that company where he is a member of the Supervisory Board. Are you going to tell me that the state, that the Republic of Serbia is less important, less complex enterprise than any company that has to comply with the provisions of the Business Society Act? You can't say that, you can't convince us. We really don't want there to be any more excuses to not select an external auditor and there's no legal basis for controlling the funds. Why does it matter? We live in a country that, by definition, is called a captive state. For those of you who don't know, I'll tell you that the captured state is the one where the public interest is privatized by certain dominant groups. When you recently proposed the Law on Government, you said that you would fight, or that it was not allowed to create a situation where public and private interest could be misused. I have no reason to doubt it, I can support it, but what does practice say? When the law says that a member of the government can't perform a function, well, here, and in this audit law that we're talking about, it means he can't perform an incompatible function. If there are organs that determine this, e.g. Take this board to prevent conflicts of interest, if such a body can work without pressure and double standards, what we do in the people by protection or by looking through their fingers, and if there is a punishment that the offender will face, even if it is a newspaper text, public announcement in the "Official Messenger" that someone should be ashamed, then there would be no place to object. We really wouldn't have anything to object to. What does Mr. Djelic's example speak of as the freshest? I'm not interested in personal solutions. I don't find him interesting either, on the contrary. I take it as a principle of abuse of power. What's this about? About the fact that the gentleman couldn't face what's called a no-competitive clause. You're people here who need to know what "no competition" clauses mean. Everyone, even if he's a paint shop salesman, knows that when he signs a labor contract, he has a no-competitive clause -- that when he leaves that store, he can't bring with him a list of business partners and that list he uses for the benefit of another employer, if he goes away, or for his own benefit, if he opens up a private company, because he'll be welcomed by court proceedings and damages. A competition ban clause allows a man who abuses acquired connections or certain secrets to answer, but a official, but a former minister, who has become one again, can do so completely unpunished. Here's how he can do it. Mr Djelic is the majority owner of the list "Economist", according to his own statement. You know, I don't have friends in the BIA, in secret organizations, I don't use confidential, personal or secret information. I'm just talking about, as modernly said -- verifiable data, and when it comes to Mr. Djelic, I'm only talking about his personal statements and those data he entered into the registers about the establishment of these companies. So, the majority owner of the Economist, the shareholder and, hopefully, the recent director of the "Credi agrikol" bank, the founder of two companies – "Altis Capital", which he calls the Investment Bank, and "Altis Consalting". The man who has several million euros worth of wealth is named Mr. Djelic. This man, who is current and with this law, in fact, someone who was a government minister from 2001 to 2004, was a business politician. In that circle, in that, better say, a triangle of power, money, business and politics moves all the time, and to our harm. What connects this movement, money, power, business, politics, is an exceptional ambition to earn huge money, not asking in what way and bringing all of us graduate economists, or economics masters, or those who regularly finish schools, until we can't do our job, or impose on us a basic model called greed. The bestids impose greed on both us and young people as a basic model and that is why I take Mr. Djelic as an example in all three of these laws. Do you know what it's really about when we talk about "Economist", "Credi agricol" bank and "Altis" companies? I'm talking about, in fact, the classical definition of corruption, both in administrative and economic, and in a public interest, and what theorists know best. Why does it matter what I say - he was a minister? None of his photos, statements or names were missed to write -- former finance minister, until the moment he became a minister again. It's a fact that by 2004, by March, when he was no longer in government, he had access to important information, secrets, or he acquired a wide range of business partners. Anyone who's ever been to a place like this knows exactly what I'm talking about. What I've cited is a classic type of non-competitive clause, for which every ordinary man, salesman in a paint factory, or shop manager, will answer. Mr. Djelic was re-rewarded by his post in the government. Do you know what else he expects? Let's yell at him - bravo. It's not for good, it's not for -- it's for -- it's for -- it's for -- it's for applying, gentlemen, laws that prevent conflict of public and private interest, because this is how you make fun of me, all of my colleagues, all of the college-educated people, all of our children, who we teach to make honest bread, with your knowledge, not abuse. I'll have to add some more details. There's more abuse. "Altis" was founded in 2004, but registered in June 2005. All the time, since 2004, since its founding, man has represented himself to the owners of these consulting companies and these investment banks. So it wasn't an open jury account, a current account, all the services went some other way. According to his recognition, he brought together more and more former people and government officials in the company, from Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, former vice governor Velje Tatic, Siniši Mali from Vlahovic's cabinet, etc. He brokered business between Serbian and foreign banks and said Djelic and Vlahovic both did not abuse acquired ties. I'm asking for full concentration. On Mr Djelic's website, according to him, I don't know what period, probably since he opened the account, he boasts that he has advised all the most successful companies and participated in transactions worth over 500m euros. If the commission for these transactions is 5%, which, otherwise, is regulated by the rules of business and privatisation, so when privatisation is carried out, firstly, keeps 5% as a reward for success in privatisation, a simple calculation comes to the conclusion that Djelic's firm has earned 25m euros on these transactions alone, according to its own statement, recognised jobs. Did "Altis Capital" and "Altis Consuling" earn, or pay taxes on these 25m euros? The question is also how Altis got jobs, why this very consultant, whether the quality was meant, whether the information was the most significant that he would get the job, but we'll talk about it when I have time. Now I'm letting my colleagues say something else about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2219	On what grounds? No one called you. You're not the denominator, you can't get the word, I'm sorry. You can do business, but you're not called. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2220	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure because of the context in which Mrs. Tabakovic mentioned the former government and individual members of the former government, not wanting in any way to challenge the credibility of the information that Mrs. Tabakovic made. The truth is, since I was the minister of justice in the first democratic government of Zoran Djindjic, only to say that before the government was formed, which could be a guideline for some other governments, including those that are being formed today, and apparently not, Zoran Djindjic insisted that all candidates for ministers sign a gentlemen's agreement that they cannot have a private company, private enterprise, actions, shares, neither they, nor members of their closest families. I said I'm not contesting the credibility of this information. So either in the country or abroad, they can't have without prior reporting real estate, bank accounts. (The Verse of Radeta, from the place: Did Djindjic report his property? You can't comment on it like that, from the scene. Come out and comment. It's uncivilized.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2221	Please allow Mr. Batic to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2222	So there were several provisions to this gentleman's agreement. So, some people who were members of the government of Zoran Djindjic, after signing the gentlemen's agreement, may have broken the provisions of something they signed before the government was established. I remind Mrs Tabakovic that, as far as ministers in today's government and those in the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica are concerned, much more could be said. It will concern these laws and I will be inclined to make it clear, say, about the character and the work of Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2223	Replica, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2224	To Mr Batic, only in favour of credibility or in support of someone's intention to knowingly enter the Meridian Bank as a shareholder, or to be a member of the government, and then to say that he had sold the shares late. When Mr. Djelic was announced director of "Credi Agrikol Bank", in May 2005, the condition of the management of "Credi Agrikol Banka" was to withdraw from politics. At that point, Mr Djelic was already an adviser, allegedly unpaid, Mr Pajtic and came to Novi Sad and performed as a free adviser, but cancelled this counselling and sent a message to Mr Tadic that he would not perform at party meetings because it is incompatible with the participation in the bank. How did he come to be with us - citizens? He registered his shares in the "Meridian Credit Agrikol Bank", which is official data from the National Bank and you can reach it on the site, via Soparsas, which has 9.99% stake in the ownership of the "Meridian Bank". You know why that beautiful number 9.99%? If it were 10%, the stockholder structure would have to be shown to the last natural person. He intended to hide his participation, as a natural person, in that company, which only proves that someone in this nation, the bad laws in this people, and their non-application was used for personal gain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2225	The word has an MP, Donka Banovic. As head of the Parliament Club, you have the right to receive your word when the principled search is opened and finally. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, Rule 93.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2226	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, someone here was talking about Serbia becoming a captured country. It seems to me that we will soon become a captured congregation. We started a debate about four hours in principle. So far, we could have done all this and gone home nicely when the hours were over. Today we have a united discussion of three very important laws, or proposals for amendments and additions to these laws. Whenever we talk about amendments and additions to existing laws, then that means that the proposer is trying to fix existing legal solutions. I'm going to talk about the Law on Free Access to Public Information, in fact, I'm going to remind all of us why this law is very important. By affirming the right to free access to information, it significantly strengthens the role of citizens as government controllers. Citizens and the public represent a significant factor in the control of state authorities and other public institutions and represent active actors in the realisation of complex public affairs necessary for the development and progress of society. The confidence of citizens won in the free and direct elections is a necessary but not sufficient condition for legitimacy that must be confirmed over and over again during the term of office during the day-to-day period. Therefore, the political and legal theory almost uniquely accepted the principle that people's trust is good, but that control is necessary. Eternal experience, unfortunately, shows unequivocally and proves that each government corrupts its carriers, especially if the relevant legal instruments are not limited enough. The Constitution has established that sovereignty belongs to the citizens. Citizens exercise power, either indirectly, or directly. Accordingly, all public authorities and public authorities and, above all, executive bodies and authorities of the administration are obliged to place their overall activity in the service of the public interest of citizens. The public works of state authorities and other authorities and freedom of access to information are essential features of the modern rule of law. Without direct insight into the work and behaviour of the entities that exercise power and manage public affairs, in particular without genuine and complete information on the performance of these tasks, it is not possible in an effective way to exercise the necessary public control. Freedom of access to information today is also a significant means of combating corruption in general, especially in public administration. The very fact that the work of the administration can be made transparent, i.e. that information can be sought in the possession of state authorities and public institutions, makes a significant contribution to increasing citizens' motivation that it has both purpose and purpose to make individual efforts to eradicate corruption and illegal behaviour. The right to free access to information today is an effective means available to citizens, in a constant fight against the usurpation of government and corruption. I urge you to vote for the proposed amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2227	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradovic reported. In Article 93. The rules of procedure have been defined as saying that representatives of parliamentary groups get the word, but I do not think it is disputed that Ivica Dacic, as chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, although not directly in line with the Rules of Procedure, gets the word. I don't think the other MPs would mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2228	Thank you. I think these regulations of the Rules of Procedure should be amended, because it is absolutely impossible for club bosses not to have the right to report in the course of the debate, to use their time, and that the legislator or anyone else has the right to do so and that they can use it. So it's the right of every head of the Parliament club to assess when they're going to take advantage of time and what they're going to think of as opening words, and what they're going to consider a conclusion or, as they say here, the final part of their speech. The Socialist Party of Serbia will not vote in favour of the bill's proposals, although we believe that what was proposed here could be an integral part of the package under discussion today, but with the necessary choice of people foreseen by the Constitutional Law. So I repeat once again that we are certain that there is a deep crisis in the ruling coalition, which also results in disagreements over the way and procedure of electing the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, resulting in today's session of the Finance Committee, where G 17 was not even present. Besides, I don't see any of the G17 MPs present today plus present in this room. They probably have some important consultations. In any case, it clearly speaks of problems that exist within the ruling coalition. Of course, that's your problem. I would like to draw attention to the need for the SPS to carry out a budget review for years, i.e. to adopt Serbia's final budget accounts for years when DOS was in power. If you remember, in this same room, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with great exaggeration, spoke about the great abuses of former governments in which the SPS, the SRS and others were in place. With only Minister Batic present from the government here, he may remember what they were saying, but he probably remembers what they were accusing us of. Among other things, people who were in charge, e.g. The Management Board of the Labour Market Fund received criminal charges because the fund paid certain funds to families of dead soldiers and police officers during Serbia's bombing. It's a random waste of funds. Later on, you changed that law and what you accused the Socialists of became a crime, is no longer a crime. We'd love to see how you've been spending people's money these past seven years. To this day, no final account has come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These legal regulations have been passed back a few years. So far, no state audit institution has been selected. There's obviously something to hide. The former government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which it was G17, has had so much criticism towards the previous government, Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic. You remember Mladjan Dinkic here said that the money collected from privatisation was spent in the Democratic Party's pre-election campaign ahead of the 2003 elections. But when someone comes to power, it changes. You remember that G 17 talked about various affairs every day, too, the DS talked about various abuses of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic during this previous period, and now you are all together in the government and I am sure you will not give any criticism to each other and will forgive each other everything. Here is the basic question - whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is right and whether it should discuss the issue, the issue of final accounts, and why they are not on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until today. Also, we chose the Commissioner for Information. Since the information commissioner has lost the base, as said in the political dictionary, from Kumrovec, since there are many Kumrovci students, unfortunately, or fortunately, there are at least those in the SPS, but there are in some other parties that have been well footing at the time of the communist system, since the Information Commissioner has lost the base, his party is no longer ruling, his party is no longer in parliament. It's obvious he's getting his shift ready. But that's not controversial. It doesn't have to change the whole law to fit and comply with those people who need to be elected to certain functions. So today there is no agenda or issue of the governor of the National Bank, and it is clearly defined that at this session, and also in the past, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia must choose. Since G 17, obviously, will not participate in the work of the Assembly until the issue is resolved, and since you MPs in the Assembly do not follow what various political officials say, let me say that G 17 declares that Jelasic will surely be governor, but that he must agree with coalition partners on how this election will be made. How will this choice be made? That he won't by decree? At least someone would like it to be a roll call, as for the President of Parliament, without debate. But it is obvious that someone in this parliament must make a decision on who is the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Whether the G17 conditions the issue with its participation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you know it best. But that question must be found on Parliament's agenda. Today you had to put on the agenda the choice of the Constitutional Court. It is prescribed and defined by constitutional law. All deadlines are up. When are we going to have a Constitutional Court? Today, all those who want to complain about constitutionality and legality have no one to complain to because there is no Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Law on the Protector of Citizens, of course it is necessary, needs the Protector of Citizens, but we have discussed it here many times, there have been even staff proposals, so those who have been proposed have given up. Serbian citizens must have the same rights. Are General Tolimir's rights at risk and is he threatened with the right to be extradited under the law that you, contrary to the Constitution, brought several years ago in the Federal Assembly? He, even, could not use that right, to use the procedure prescribed by that extradition law to the UN tribunal. I really call on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to say what it wants, whether it's for extradition or for voluntary surrenders, or for voluntary surrenders that look like extradition, or, in this case, something that might have looked like a voluntary surrender, but General Tolimir said, however, he was arrested here and taken away, or extradited. He was not handed over to The Hague tribunal from Serbia, he was handed over to Republika Srpska or BiH, if the information that exists in public is correct. Of course, at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, the issue was raised, and I, as chairman of the Committee, addressed the competent state authorities as part of my authority. Some of them gave me answers, some of which I haven't yet, and we'll consider it at the next session of the Defence and Security Committee. Was he arrested in Serbia and were members of the foreign security service involved in his arrest? If the Serbian government wants to meet its obligations to The Hague through extradition, then it should not be ashamed. Batic criticises the government because it has not arrested them before. We criticise them because they are, in general, arrested and extradited to the UN tribunal. But you must know the full truth about it. Of course it's necessary, then, that there is a Protector of the Citizens. At the very end, since we are talking about the openness of the information and information process, I would like to remind the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that in this same assembly, the issue of forming a polling committee was raised in time by Dragan Marsicanin to see the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco production and transport. That was when Dragan Marsicanin was president of the assembly. You DOS know better when it was, it was at the beginning of your reign. I want to tell you that at the time, Zarko Obradovic, who served as deputy head of the Parliament Club, said that the Socialists for the formation of a survey board that will determine all the facts important to this case. During the vote, this proposal was not received by the majority, voted for by the Socialists and probably by representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia and, I don't know, I suppose, too, that the Serbian Radical Party. In any case, those who attacked the Socialist Party of Serbia that, I don't know, Slobodan Milosevic had something to do with the case, did not want to vote to form such a polling committee. Why? Because it was the leaders of these criminal groups who financed the DOS's arrival in 2000. Just for the record. Today, after seven years, you arrest those people. You arrest them, but those money, which police now say have damaged the budget, ended up in your 2000 pre-election campaigns to bring down Slobodan Milosevic and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I'm sure of it and so let it all be examined to the end and whoever's guilty should answer. But at the time you were supposed to do it and when you came to power, when you said you were a figure of democracy and justice, you were protecting people who were headed by "the tobacco mafia". For seven years in the drawer you held that action "The Network" and now you remember. They probably didn't give you money for this campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2229	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, as advertised by the Rules of Procedure, after her, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure and I address the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, Mr. Dacic. As a member of the Defence and Security Committee, I have the right to ask you, Mr Dacic, for information on how long you have arrived in that communication with Radet Bulatovic, Dragan Jocic and Dragan Sutanovac. Whoever answered your phone and did you inform them that at the Committee session, we Serbian radicals made a request that on the day when it was evident that Mr Tolimir was kidnapped and in a bag for dead people packed and taken to Republika Srpska, and then in the Hague case, they appear in the building of the National Assembly. There weren't enough votes for any decision, and you know it was 7-7 votes. On our proposal and request that they appear on the same day, with a break, because they need time to come, if their teacher, mentor and monster Carla del Ponte let them go that day, they didn't come. Since she has now left and, as Mr. Vukic said, Rade Bulatovic received a chocolate bar, these others do not know what they have received from her on a gift delivered by a Serbian general and, most importantly, a gravely ill man, I ask you to inform me, as well as all the MPs, is it possible that we have this session on Sunday, if necessary tomorrow, is not important at all, but, at the latest, on Monday. After that, it's all just a carnage. We are talking about the most important thing and therefore we have applied for a vote of no confidence to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I cannot wait, as none of the Serbian radicals, or patriots, or citizens of Serbia, who are aware that Kostunica lied to them, that he was going after Serb heads, that the traitor, as well as those with whom he was in government and who he talked about yesterday were different and that he was the greatest patriot, spoke loudly. It now betrays the Serbian people and whoever we need to protect, the rights of those people to, as they voted in favour of such a law that Serbs are delivered to The Hague, and they have those rights. We had, even, the insolence of one DSS MP, who was not present in the hall, Mr Mamula, who appeared at the Committee session and who, to our obvious apprehension of the violations of this and such law on co-operation with the evildoers from The Hague, co-operation with the villains and kidnapping of General Tolimir, said - you are entering his defenses, he pleaded before The Hague tribunal yesterday, at the first status conference. All of you are now thinking about how he will defend himself. That's enough talking about the DSS and Kostunica, the kind of unfortunate people who say that. We don't want any part of it. We want things to come clean and you've reminded me well, Mr. Dacic, to tell you. Since the Serbian Radical Party, during the ministry of Dusan Mihajlovic, when Professor Vojislav Seselj launched the affair and wrote the book, which you bought, and most of the MPs of the DOS at the time, and most bought by Mr Mr Mrkonjic, who is called "Stanko Subotic, Cane Zhabac, the king of the tobacco mafia", let's open the issue at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee. The right to tell you, since Jocic put a lot of things in the drawer and what he did before him and Dusan Mihajlović, we want to start these questions, but this is crucial – how and where he was arrested, or kidnapped and taken to The Hague-based casamat General Tolimir. We can't wait any longer and we'll keep reminding you, and I'm asking you to make that communication with them more effective and that we here, at the pay phone, tell you what they told you. They're probably disabling you and saying they don't have time to wait for a regular report on the work of the M.O.P. and the B.I.A. As members of the Committee, under Articles 46, 1 and 2 of the position, we have the right to, despite regular reports, half the year, the MUP and the BIA demand that they appear at all times. What is this country where ministers do not appear on such an important issue? What's their way of doing, and what do they have to do? So how much tomorrow, but no later than Monday, to come here, to the National Assembly building, and to go from Tolimir, to the Canet Frog, and all the things that those who have forgotten about crime and corruption have forgotten, so let's see who is in the state of thieves, who hides thieves and who is their protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2231	Mr. Batic has his word, then Mr. Dacic. Mr Batic mentioned you, but not in a negative context. He mentioned the fact that you were a member of that government, I think. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not deal with the details of what Mr. Dacic was saying, but I hope that the newly elected Commissioner for information of public importance, who will have more specific weight, because he should be chosen by most of the 126 MPs, will check all these allegations and will be made available to him. I hope that this new trustee will be provided with some other information of public importance, for example, what happened on the night of Milorad Ulemek's surrender to the Legion and how in the building of the Ministry of Interior, as if he were the highest state official of a Western European country or the United States, the top of the government welcomed him. The honorary guard and the red carpet were missing, as there were interior minister, justice minister, prime minister's chief of staff, chief of public service, etc. I hope we get that information, because they're of public importance, as well as this where and how General Tolimir was arrested. I, of course, think that all the defendants should go to The Hague, so that not all citizens of this country are their hostages, but they must not lie to the citizens. Why is it legally prescribed as the success of these authorities, if, for God's sake, he is arrested in the vicinity of Bratunc, by the police of Republika Srpska? What does that have to do with BIA and the police of the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, I hope that the new information commissioner will reveal what happened, as well as who killed the two unfortunate guards on Topcider, who was hiding in the underground hideout "Karas" and why that farce was made in the process of a so-called military investigation. I hope that the new information trustee will reveal the biggest financial abuses related to the handling and non-refunding of money from Cyprus, money laundering for one political party through the Bank's Bank account in Segedin and abuses around the National Savings Bank and the 'Euroaxis Bank'. As the new governor is elected and the name of Mr. Jelasic is mentioned, it is likely that the new information trustee will determine what is really a tax for his villa on Dedinj, what he did with the cash registers, where the money from the sale of "Mobtel" and whether, perhaps, that money is traded on the stock market. Then, where the country's foreign exchange reserves are and whether they're on the stock market, on behalf of the tycoon that rules this country. All this is information of public importance. I hope the new Commissioner for Public Information will determine what is going on with the "road Mafia", whose peaks lead to Serbia and the Ministry of Infrastructure's public roads. How do these locomotives get bought over the buty? It's information of public importance. How have many businesses in Serbia been privatised by the tycoon, master of Serbia? Finally, to expose why two of the largest tycoons in Serbia, which were also at the top of the "duvan mafia", were missed from this latest affair called the "Duvan Mafia", two of the three Serbian masters. Gentlemen, look at their accounts, the accounts of their companies in Cyprus, how they grew those accounts! Is that from the tobacco smuggling? Some of them had banks and things. This is for the Commissioner for Information and Public Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2233	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2234	Ladies and gentlemen, since Ms. Jovanovic spoke about the Committee on Defence and Security, I, on the basis of the authority I have, sent a letter to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Director of the Security and Information Agency, the Chief of Staff and the Director of the Military and Security Agency - to provide us with any information they possess about the arrest of General Tolimir. Some of them gave me an answer, but we'll discuss it at a session of the Defence and Security Committee, which will be held very soon. Since I'd like to talk about it at that session, I'd like to inform the public about who voted in 2001. So, on December 13, 2001, the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to look at the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco production and transport. I'd like to ask you for some attention. You'll find it very interesting who voted here. As I said, they voted for the formation of the poll committee, in addition to the Socialists, in addition to the Democratic Party of Serbia, which proposed it, and the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and against all others, including Neda Arneric, were probably in Belgrade when she voted, Goran Vesic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Jožef Kasa, there was also Marko Djuric, Nada Kolundzija, Nebojsa Leković, Stevan Lilić, Milena Milosevic, Natasa Micic, Zoran Micevic, Bojan Pajtic, Srdjan Popovic, Slobodan Radulovic, who was still here at large, Bosko Ristic, Dragar Hiber, Gordana Komic, Dragan Sutanovac. I don't know why anyone voted yes or no. So today let’s not talk about it all in a way that we can accuse someone else. You can see clearly from this who was in favour of some kind of crime fight that year in 2001. It is therefore important that there are all bodies and bodies that are required to ensure timelyness, the validity of citizens' rights to receive information on the most important issues. I mentioned this only because the Socialist Party of Serbia and someone else on the issue are again named after the newspaper these days. We've been in, and now we're in, we just don't know who's gonna be on the defendant's bench and whose uniforms they were wearing. It is that they were constantly changing them, but it seems to me that many of them you owe, or perhaps they are no longer with you who know you owe them anything. I can't wait for some of them to be arrested, to be on the indictee's bench, and to tell everything they know about financing October 5th, about funding before 2000, of course, and who was driving with those planes, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2235	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. After him, the word has been made by MP Jelena Markovic. The overall remaining time for the Socialist Party of Serbia is 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2236	Thank you very much. With the chairman’s warning of how many minutes we have available, God will give them much more, I will use my right to express our position in much less time. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia will not vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for Information and the State Auditing Institution. MPs will not vote for these laws, not only by the definition of the opposition, but because this session is also another violation of the Constitution and constitutional law. To remind Serbian citizens, a session was held last Wednesday that included agenda points that were not provided for in the Constitutional Law. We've been trying all day to warn the President of the Assembly that the Constitution and constitutional law are being violated. After that, the president interrupted the session, he said, held consultations in the government and in the professional public and scheduled a session with a agenda from which only half of the consultations could be seen, as he had made half the commitments on the agenda. Instead, what the Socialist Party of Serbia insists is that, firstly, the Assembly considers the Constitutional Court law, the position, procedure, election and appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, and then, according to Article 5. The constitutional law, all that is foreseen, put only half of it on the agenda. Amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens have been made, amendments to the Law on the Body for the Monitoring of the Accessibility of Information to Citizens, etc., something that is in accordance with the Constitutional Law. What had to be put in place was not put in place, and this is a proposal for candidates to elect the Citizens' Protectors, the Information Commissioner, the Council of the State Auditing Institution and the Governor of the National Bank. Why wasn't that put in? Because it confirms in part one thesis, which we have been repeating for several days, that the government has no time to deal with these issues because it spends all the time on the distribution of cakes, what it will belong to. The government once again shows that there is no mutual trust within it itself. How else do you explain that the governor of the National Bank is unable to propose to the Serbian Parliament, except that they do not agree on it themselves. When it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, I don't want much of it, because this people and these citizens can't protect anyone from this government except themselves, in the next election, when they're going to vote and change that government. When it comes to the Information Commissioner, I think my colleagues have said quite enough and it has nothing to do with what's going to change the current one, because whoever's the trustee of the information, the moment they get caught up in corruption, when they're stuck in what the ministers and the government are doing, there's gonna be a way to change. Just, very briefly, to stay on this third bill. This is a bill amending the Law on the State Audit Institution. Otherwise, the amendments to the law were not mandatory under the Constitutional Law, but it was an obligation to propose a Council of the State Auditing Institution. Now, instead, we once again deceive the people and citizens of Serbia, and they had the opportunity to see for themselves. So-called Every night, the democratic bloc, on all televisions, talks about the need for effective work, about the need to consider life, key issues as soon as possible, and ten days does not schedule a session of the Assembly to discuss these life issues. There are many important issues - about Kosovo, about the budget and not to list any further. Instead, provisions for amending the law are completely pointless. Otherwise, if Serbian citizens know, the proposed amendments to the Law on the State Auditing Institution only make the current text of the law worse. One more thing, instead of adapting the law to the constitutional law, they made it worse. They did not, for example, predict that such an important state institution was chosen in the same way as the Commissioner for Information and the Protector of Citizens, therefore, by an absolute majority of all MPs. A very important institution, because Serbia has had no control over public revenues and expenditures in the state of Serbia for six years. I'll remind you, in 2000, 35 billion total budget, now 600 billion. It's all out of control. One more thing, twice a year is the government's obligation to submit a report to the Assembly on budget inspection under the Budgetary System Act. No one's ever been here before. Why? It can tell everything they kept, which is contrary to the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law. In the end, I repeat again, we will not vote for this because this is another deception by Serbian citizens and because these are not laws that contribute to the better lives of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2237	Thank you. The People's MP Jelena Markovic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2238	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to have three laws before us that are based on all democratic societies and that we will have the opportunity to imitate these laws with the recently passed Constitution and constitutional law. All three laws are very important, because they allow us what is called participatory democracy in theory, or the possibility of citizens to control the state authorities, the state administration and their functioning. There is, above all, an important institution of the Protector of Citizens. I just want to remind you that the Civil Protection Act was passed in 2005 and that he has not been elected so far. Also, in 2002, while joining Serbia-Montenegro's process accession to the Council of Europe, one of our obligations was to elect an ombudsman and we have not respected it so far. This, unfortunately, has shown not only that we do not respect international obligations, but that we do not respect our citizens, since for the citizens this institution is one of the vitals, it allows them to control the state administration, to express complaints about the poor work of the state administration, its haughtiness or its mistreatment. These amendments to the laws that are before us strengthen the role of Citizens' Protectors, because he now has the possibility of a legislative initiative, because his choice requires an absolute majority, which gives him greater legitimacy, enables better communication between Parliament and the Citizens' Protectors, and thus enables us, parliamentarians, to see all abuses in the state administration and react to them unless they are removed. What's very important is that these amendments allow the Citizens' Protector to have immunity. This enables him to approach with greater courage to criticise and launch initiatives against the state administration, which sometimes seems all-powerful to us. I want to tell you more - what is a good experience of the Ombudsman, when he is well-elected. Serbia was greatly helped by Marek Novicki, an ombudsman who worked in Kosovo, who, apart from Serbs, spoke only of human rights violations in Kosovo and did the job well. Therefore, it is our job not only to bring today's amendments to the law, but to wisely choose the Ombudsman, a person with serious courage, integrity, who will be able to speak publicly of all abuses and violations of the law. There's just one more thing to tell you. The first Ombudsman was elected to Sweden in 1809 and had the right to control the king and his actions. I hope that Serbia will get someone who will be able to control the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2239	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues from the SRS, we can talk for six minutes about these three laws, since so many of us are left on the list. Now, in particular, I'm going to start talking about the Law on the Protector of Citizens of the so-called citizens. The Ombudsman, as he is said to be called in this reportedly democratic countries that want to take away Kosovo and Metohija and thus worry about the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to sleep in technical and other schools, in March 2004, in some bags, three years after the pogrom of our people. As for displaced and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, those in refugee centres such as that, right, colleagues Radeta, in Matarushko Banja, in Trmbas near Kragujevac, in Raca Kragujevac, have no elemental conditions for life, nor their children. So much for their care and their models. I have to tell you that the Serbian Radical Party was skeptical and voted against this basic law that is now in line, only within the time period, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe that this institution, which is so respected in this so-called. a democratic world, actually a simple farce. The existence of local civil defenders, i.e. city defenders, such as the Ombudsman in Kragujevac and other cities in Serbia, shows that they are both under the influence of political parties and that all of this is in the law, that they are depolitised, that the drying of any influence, that now a new member, who allows them to get immunity, to encourage them, that they will be brave – only a phrase. Don't, please, make us laugh that this, however it may be called, either this lady or the gentleman elected by the Assembly Committee, or she suggests, for constitutional issues, and chooses at least 126 MPs, to oppose the mafia today such as the government in Serbia and the finger to point to a leading tycoon, or in the process of privatising the oil industry of Serbia, which you intend to implement, garbage, and the Ombudsman is, that is, the Citizens' Protector, to oppose Hamovic or Lazarevic. Well, he won't be allowed to stand in their shadow, let alone say something about their mobster and what the predecessors did. Mrs Tabakovic, in a great way, suitable for her knowledge and education, presented all this data, but only part of the data and, of course, the recognition of the current Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. But she did not arrive, because that time did not allow her, as it will not allow me, to mention one of the colleagues in the process and in the context of those commissions she spoke of, the famous five percent for the assessment of the value of capital, for participation and mediation in the privatisation process, and that Aleksandar Vlahovic. The former privatisation minister is also the main beginner of the robbery in Serbia, not only as a minister, but while Mrs Tabakovic was the minister of economy and privatisation, he was head of the company "Diloit shower", which worked all the time. During the time we defended ourselves from aggression and defended Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, he put his paws and carried out evaluations, even then, the values of the companies that were later privatised with a huge commission, which he and his company took, enterprises such as Belgrade Shipyard, cements, sugars, and today it is enough for him to be an MP, to come and strut, to smile and go, register, and he doesn't care whether this law has its own application or not, when he knows he won't lack hair from his head. What have you done, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, or then or the current DOS, and what campaign have you led against people who, unlike you, who in your ranks have only criminals and thieves, and who will not be the protector of the citizens to protect... I don't know why you're hitting, ma'am, and you're nervous. I should have brought you today all the books that Dr. Seselj wrote to you before you wrote him the indictment and sent him to the Hague casamat, in which he clearly and unequivocally spoke about what kind of connections individuals from the top of the government and Zoran Djindjic had to do with Canet Zappac. I didn't drive on his plane, but your former prime minister, and Darko Glisic, an MP from the SRS, went to court, according to mobster Canet Zapca, to prove he was a mobster and involved in the business of cigarette smuggling with the top of the state government. That's what this is about. It is that this civil protection officer, whenever the procedure is implemented, and it has to be implemented today, on the day you put it on the agenda, will not, with five immunitys, be protected from threats, pressure, or political influences, because it is a normal phenomenon for you in Serbia. Whoever comes to you, or you go to the Council of Europe, whoever comes to you now, in this period while we are chairman, you will say, so we have fulfilled all democratic standards, that is so democratic, here, we have the Guardian, and you will choose him. Will that garbage, like in another country where such criminals of the highest rank are prosecuted, be opposed? Of course not. Because this country, the top of the state government, is fueled by crime and corruption. Not until the travel recipe and the model is applied, because Putin doesn't matter if he has a protector, or an ombudsman, but it's important for him to have all the criminals in prison and that he cleaned the country of tycoon. It's the only way we can be sure that citizens will have protection in the right sense of words. Since Bozidar Djelic, who we talked a lot about today, and Mrs Tabakovic presented only part of his abuses, according to his personal recognition, began her political career in Serbia by calling his aunt, who called him to tell him that he was waiting for a sub-op bed and that she had mixed it with him, i.e. the oblandas, which he brought us here to try, and the other call came to him the other day, as sheretically brought to one TV, or for a pay phone, from Olli Rehn, I must tell him that when the Serbian Radical Party took over power in Serbia, it would be free of police and judiciary from influence, from an investigative judge, to come to pay the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2241	The word has been made by MP Nikola Zutic, and according to Business, MP Dusan Bajatovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2242	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. Namely, I will talk about ensuring access to information from Serbian archives. After what's-his-name. democratic changes in 2000, nothing more significant was done to ensure full availability of archival funds. The leaders of archival institutions are still people of appropriate moral-political similarities. They were once individuals of a communist, social-realistic moral-political likeness, and now they are individuals of a liberal-democratic moral-political likeness. Archive works in some archives are not available to citizens after 30 years. It is all in the hands of the director, the censor appointed by the Government, the Republic or the City. The funds are often unsettled, with dreary intelligence, or inventory. The Military Archives has been completely inaccessible since 1945. The justification for that, in their words, is about disorder, then lack of personnel and bombings from 1999. In the archives of Serbia, important funds are dislocated into extruded archival checkpoints. For example, the 1846 Cassation Court Fund is very important in Železnik. Gentlemen, most importantly, there is no respect for the archival jurisdiction of archival institutions. Thus, for example, the Joseph Broz Capital Fund, following the removal of the archives of the Josip Broz Memorial Centre, did not enter the jurisdiction of the Yugoslav Archives, the competent institution, but is rather kept hidden in the Museum of Yugoslavia. It's outrageous in archival activity. Who keeps the image and work of the greatest son of all our peoples and peoples? By the way, the Yugoslavia Archive presents a sacred example of the availability of funds, thanks to good inventory and formerly dedicated work of archivists. Unfortunately, the Serbian Orthodox Church's archives are also difficult to access because of a weaker arrangement of funds. The archives of former state security are the biggest problem. What about the promise of the VBA, former KOS, that it would free itself from the construction of researchers from 1945 to 1977? There are as many as 200,000 pages of archive construction. All this has been said in public, however, there is nothing from this to this day. What about the archives of Homeland Security, or BIA? The National Security Archive has been fully opened in Slovenia and Croatia. The Croats have already published archives of the 1944 UN and KNOJ, respectively, in 1946. This congregation should urinate with appropriate governmental resources to change the situation. The so-called democratic governments did not move any further compared to the closure of the archives during the communist period. The Institute of Contemporary History's critical opinion centre sent state institutions an appeal for the opening of archival funds. I'd read that appeal, because it's of great importance. "By calling on the state's obligation to provide its citizens with legally guaranteed access to information, the undersigned group of public workers is appealing to state institutions and individuals to provide conditions for compliance with existing rules on the disposal, storage, deposit and insight of archival material, thus breaking up with the conspirative tradition of making access to construction and destruction and selective disclosure of documents, which so far cost Serbian science and society expensive. A city owned by the interior ministry, the foreign ministry, the defence ministry and the BIA, which has long lost its operational character, is of great importance to understand the past of Yugoslavia and Serbia. Its retention contributes to the maintenance of unscienceal plays on the past and deprives the right to the truth to Serbian citizens. The experiences of other countries clearly show that the relationship to the written heritage of state institutions, as well as the willingness to respect its own legislation in this domain, is one of the reflections of the democracy of society. Manipulation of the state secret argument, which justifies the avoidance of the legal obligation, is at odds with the ideal of the transparency of the modern state and damages its citizens and sciences. Not nearly three years after the entry into the BIA archives, which refers to the post-World War II period, the archive structure is not available to researchers. Not entering the reasons for the explanations, we urge the state institutions and authorities to remove all legal and other obstacles as soon as possible and to allow the uninterrupted insight of researchers into the still unreachable archive funds." It is an appeal signed by key Serbian scientists, mostly social sciences. I hope this one, so-called. The democratic government acts in line with the best traditions of liberal democracy and hear the appeal of Serbian scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2243	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and let Mr Radisa Ilic be prepared. I beg the MPs for a little quiet, we are nearing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2244	I'll say three things. First, article 218. It's going to seem a little weird to you, which is that the government has to report to the National Assembly on its work, and I'm going to tell you why. I'd like to ask the gentleman of the SRS not to violate Article 103. Where Tito and the communists now thought of it, I don't get it. She's wasting our time. Third thing, you stole an SPS MP's group almost a minute ago. That's why I called, so I could exercise my right. You didn't measure well. If you don't believe it, take our stopwatch. It's been a while since this was done in Parliament. Just a few sentences, because I can see there's no point in sitting here mostly the opposition. Colundage, it's an honor to you. You're sitting here on official duty. The rest of you don't care. This is a set of anti-corruption laws. Gentlemen from the ruling nomenclature or from the ruling elite, it is not the problem of Serbia on the road to Europe alone The Hague, which you interpret as you wish, and those others who do not think as you do, and I think these others are right, the problem is corruption, because we are one of the most corrupt countries in Europe and in the world, and you do not want to complete the problem of establishing these anti-corruption bodies. The problem is thieving, stealing, for example, in the context of privatisation. It has not yet been completed, for example, the trial of "the bankruptcy mafia" gentlemen, where one of the biggest robberies in the history of Serbs and the Serbian state, which we do not want to talk about today, has been carried out. The next thing you know, which is very important, why did I mention the government of the Republic of Serbia? Because, apparently, until you agreed in the government, neither the parliamentary majority of 122 MPs, who is more than qualified, could offer us personnel solutions for the Ombudsman, for the Commissioner of Public Information and for the composition of the State Audit Committee and its director. You know what that says to us who control what you are doing here as the ruling majority and as the government, possibly the public of Serbia? To continue the practice of sharing prey within the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since you didn't agree, you're talking here, allegedly, about experts, about people who have five or ten years of experience, and the bottom line is this: all of these key places for determining corruption in Serbia, key places for determining how budget money has been spent, how budget money has been distributed to budget users and spent, and also there are major abuses, you don't want to bring any experts, no independent people, you want to bring people under your party's control. Then you're telling us about improving democratic practice. I'm sorry, please, but democracy means the very existence of institutions, the existence of procedures, and that really all, since it's not possible to prescribe everything by law, we all keep what it says in the law really in practice. I really must say that, for example, in the previous session, when the minority government of the DSS and its partners supported the SPS, we passed over 200 pro-European laws, but for them it did not want the Democratic Party to vote, probably out of its mutual interests. Now I guess she'll back them up. Gentlemen, most of these laws are either not applicable in the way that you tried to do it or simply don't apply those laws. It's one thing that we have a legislative framework, one thing that you're promoting rights here, and the other thing is that these same rights, which we're passing by law, are in practice not being able to implement, because you don't want a real man, first of all, on the State Audit Committee, or a real man who's going to control information of public importance, and no one wanted to accept it, because he knew that you, in your mutual trade transactions, would impose on him what the interest of an ordinary man is. By the way, let me ask you -- is there a bigger job in Serbia for someone who wants to deal with human rights, and one of the basic rights is the right to work, than the rights of 940,000 unemployed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2245	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. If Mr. Obradovic has a stopwatch, I would like to ask him to give it to the secretary general for keeping a record. Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2246	Reporting under Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, because it is my right and obligation to inform you, Mr. Bajatovic and the National Assembly, that a respected colleague, Dr. Nikola Žutić, is a doctor of historical sciences, a man who, in his research work for many years, has been particularly concerned with the crimes committed against the Serbian people west of Drina and Danube, in Republika Srpska Krajina. The fact that he mentions only some parts of that tragic history under Broz’s regime, that is an educational character. I most warmly recommend that all of his studies, and one of them is included in the new book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "The Roman Catholic Crime Project of an artificial Croatian nation", read only so much that you have a slightly different idea of that part of Serbian history, about 50 years of totalitarian regime. What is most dangerous, and what we can talk about extensively and extensively, are neocommunists from Dossovska Authority, who now rob Serbian citizens and who rule Serbia in the way they do, so that they are ashamed of those who are from the ideal, as young communists and horsemen, were members of the movement that fought against fascists. Much more dangerous are these neocommunists of Dossian government than some people who did it from the ideal. Brozomania, which has done so much to our people – Serbs, which has made us the consequences of such a policy, because of Broz and all the enemies of the Serbian people, suffer, and our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and Serbs in Republika Srpska, and exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska, is something that is our painful wound and we have to talk about all the time. It is fortunate that Serbia has Dr Vojislav Seselj, who is ready to write and, along with such associates as Dr Žutic, to make an immeasurable contribution to Serbian science, above all, history.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2247	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2248	Just two sentences. Don't worry, I won't argue much with radicals, just as long as I need to get my electoral body back. If I mentioned anyone, I didn't kill him, Madam Vice President. I just said we shouldn't be here discussing Tito and the totalitarian regime, because totalitarianism is coming today in Serbia if we let this go. So that's what I meant. I thought we had more to do than go through history, which today shares Serbia, because we're looking at it differently. I agree that he's a historian and that Seselj writes the best books, I know it all, I've heard it a thousand times. I just want to tell you guys, come on, let's watch what's going on here together today. Let go of history. We today, in many segments, by the way the government in Serbia, have elements in which a kind of government, which is the executive government, wants to impose to such an extent that the other two branches of government are completely annulled. That is why, as an opposition, we are already very much showing the capacity to let the ruling party do what it wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2249	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three draft laws on amendments and additions - the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the State Auditing Institution. This session was to be held much earlier, that is, as the Constitutional Law imposed. At the last session, SRS MPs insisted on making arguments precisely in favour of what is happening today. It seems that it was more important to adopt amendments to the Government Act, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants, to redistribute jobs in the newly established ruling coalition without a fight. A little ironic sounds like an explanation for the draft laws that are on the agenda today. They are ironic because they call on the Constitution, the Constitutional Law. So, the same ones who broke the constitution and the constitutional law a week ago tried to harshly violate the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Now, as if nothing had happened, as if someone had been playing with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, there is an impression that some cosmetic changes have tried to prepare the ground for individuals from your interest groups, who will respond as needed to the ruling furniture, or Solana, or Olli Rehn, or Michael Polt. What will be the results of the Protector of the Citizens? Will it succeed in putting in the role of protectors of the rights of citizens, to know how to protect against all those powerful mafias, tobacco, educational, road, traffic, oil, bankruptcy, customs, since they have each been ordered by a certain civil servant, even one assistant minister. It is already in Article 2 that the Citizens' Protector will be independent when elected and proposed by the ruling majority. There's no interest in changing anything. The citizen's protector should protect the citizens of Serbia from knowing that the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia is weighing 11m euros. It should be mentally tolerated by a citizen of this state who has no electricity, who has no treatment, who has nothing to escort a child to school in the morning. We don't need citizens' protectors for decorations, to write about cases where the clerk eats breakfast in the weather, or when someone doesn't get a notice from the public firm about water work. Little does this patron of citizens look like another extra-constitutional institution, which, like, wants to help the citizens but, in fact, only serves to spend people's money. It's the People's Office of the President of the Republic. The pattern provides answers to dissident citizens, only the name, last name and address are entered. So it happened that some citizens, who asked for some kind of legal aid or help to treat, received blank answers that they were unable to help them settle their electricity debt. That is how the Protector of the Citizens will react. We heard today MP Momir Markovic, a Serbian Radical Party MP, talking about the missing millions at the Privatisation Agency, about stolen laptops, with data on JAT, Bor and NIS. These matters should be dealt with by the government, the police, and the Citizen's Protector, because someone will surely ask for help from that protector once he's elected to the post, for something so drastic. In these amendments and additions, one of the proposed intentions is seen, and this is best seen in Article 3, which is replaced by the word "party" in Article 9 of the word "organisation". So the future patron of citizens won't be able to be a member of any political party. The question is, why didn't you leave the word "organisation" in the bill? Are you planning to continue the practice of fostering members of some NGOs? We had an example of CESID. The man came explicitly to the post of deputy secretary of the National Assembly. The president himself of the National Assembly boasts that he attended some courses, whose promoter was, no less, but Sonja Licht. I wouldn't be surprised if you chose Sonja Biserko or Natasa Kandic to protect the citizens and then the image of the current government in Serbia would be complete. We're still missing Carla del Ponte picking out our BIA boss, so let's decorate that Dossov family photo. As far as the Law on Free Access to Information is concerned, or supplementing this law, nothing important changes the Commissioner in his work under that law. The additions are conditioned by the adoption of a new constitution. This law, as well as the Commissioner, will make no difference between the authorities and the public. They'll do as much as the authorities allow. Here's a simple example. All issues surrounding the arrest of General Tolimir, until the participation of individual state officials and officials in certain affairs that have shaken the Serbian public lately, remain unresponsive. Let the Commissioner trust the public of Serbia with valid information on all this, and certainly there were those who were looking for it. Like this, radicals call the authorities at the National Assembly's meetings to provide citizens with information when they, too, are silent. The whole public in Serbia wonders - what is hidden from the citizens, and when the Commissioner tries to get some information from the authorities, he encounters obstruction, or what offers him such a filtering code is needed to reveal what the state body was trying to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2251	The word of the messenger of the people is Zlatan Jovanovic, and after him, the messenger of the people, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must conclude that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is full, I would say, first of all, the logistical support of the current president of the Assembly, introduce an emergency in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's right, it's evidence that today's session and all the sessions we've held since the election of the new government. Namely, although it says in the Rules of Procedure that the sessions are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10 to 18 hours, we do not hold sessions in those days, but rather, on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and, possibly, Mondays, as a rule, in late evenings. That in the Assembly, and I would say in Serbia, in a certain way, there is a state of emergency, and this session, which was baptized as the Second Emergency Session, is also evidence. I'm not talking about these laws that are on the agenda today. I will only point to the essence of what is happening today in the Serbian Parliament, which is a persistent violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by the Republic of Serbia, of course, through the President of the Assembly and the parliamentary majority. In Article 5. The constitutional law clearly states what must be found on the agenda of the first session of the National Assembly after the government's election, meaning, after a constitutional session. That first session passed ten days ago. Nothing was done at that session, the debate was held for ten hours, and then they split up without any conclusion or decision. Namely, in Article 5. The constitutional law states that the newly elected composition of the National Assembly during the first session after the government's elections should comply with the Constitution of laws governing the protection of citizens and the exercise of citizens' rights to information and select the Protector of citizens, then the authority responsible for monitoring the exercise of citizens' right to know, as well as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the State Auditory Institution. So what's on the agenda today, even though this is the second session, is not in line with the Constitution, because today the Guardian of Citizens and Governor of the National Bank of Serbia had to be elected. We heard from the promoter's representatives that no citizens' protector can be elected today, because today they are on the agenda to amend and supplement that law, but they could have been governor of the National Bank. Why not? Because no agreement or trade has been reached between coalition partners in the government of the Republic of Serbia, on who should be governor of the National Bank. Also, the state in a certain way in a state of emergency talks is the fact that we haven't had a Constitutional Court in Serbia in months. Constitutional law and the Constitution of Serbia are binding and in every normal state, the Constitutional Court is permanent. There are no breaks in the existence and work of the Constitutional Court. In Article 9. The constitutional law states that the election, i.e. the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, will take place no later than the end of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. This first regular session somehow coincided with that constitutive session and it took up that space, but, by some logic, it was to be elected by the Constitutional Court judges at the First Extraordinary Session. We have conditions, it's this constitutional law, which also tells us to elect 10 judges, which allows the Constitutional Court to work fully and decide. I'm not talking about what's on the agenda. I want to and I have an obligation to point to the situation in which refugees, exiled and displaced persons are presently in Serbia, as well as to the public of Serbia. In fact, a few days ago, I was in a collective center, and I got information that they were moving them from that center. I see that it is a trend throughout Serbia and that it is being moved from all centres to other centres, etc. Many of these people spent 15 years in individual centers, in individual locations. After 15 years, refugees again become refugees in Serbia and go back to new places, into new centres, and should again adapt to some new conditions and build some ties with locals elsewhere. The situation is very difficult and I'm interested in whether the current government has any strategy or any other plan with these people? They've experienced one tragedy in their homeland and now we're putting them back here to these inconveniences, to relocate, all the things they have, and very little they have, to pack their suitcases and to go to some new residences. The refugee commissioner doesn't do anything about it, or at least nothing on the ground can be seen. There is no means, at least we can't see on the ground that there are any resources that the government is setting aside for these purposes, because these people are left to themselves. On the other hand, many of them, and if they try and demand the citizenship of this country, they can't get it, first, because the price of that requirement is about 10,000 dinars. They don't have that money. If anyone even manages to file that request, he's been waiting years to get a solution to the citizens' book. Thirdly, their property in the countries from which they were expelled and escaped remained there and this country does not care, or our diplomacy has done anything to get their property back as soon as possible, to come into its possession, so that at least in a certain way that you can pay off and start a new life here in Serbia. I would ask a parliamentary question, does this government have a clear strategy and a clear plan and whether it wants to integrate these people into the legal and social system of this country or not? If she doesn't want it, she needs to tell them publicly, that they know where they are, so they can plan the rest of their lives in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2253	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momchilov, has the word, after him, the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, it's almost nine o'clock, and we started work at 12 o'clock Friday. So, in one European way, we conduct the debate and our sessions, one Dossovska politika continues in the Serbian Parliament, where both the Constitution and the laws and the Rules of Procedure are trampled. That's a fact we should point out for sure. Who would like to hold meetings at night, Friday, to schedule at 12 o'clock, the day before the meeting, not to tell the truth to the MPs, and to tell them first that the meetings of the Assembly will be held next week, and then suddenly to schedule such meetings? Only states called banana states, and that's what needs to be said. Someone might think - why this is happening to us and whether it's a misunderstanding, whether it's an intricacies. It's not. This has been made up, because it is wanted to be tortured by MPs, an unquality debate is wanted, and it is wanted that MPs do not have the opportunity to say what they have to say. Why would someone have a motive to act like that? It's a question. It's very simple to find answers when you find motives. First, today is not supposed to talk about Kosovo in this parliament. It's a topic that's currently being banned. Secondly, it is not necessary to speak up and to cover up those games that take place around the privatisation of NIS and EPS, and that is quite clear. Of course, it doesn't take much to talk about what's happening to us on the street and what we see, the arrest and courting of Carly del Ponte, who has been here for four days, as if on vacation and vacation. It is known how appropriate the visits of the statesmen are. And she might be a statesman, so you figure it out yourself. What needs to be said is, certainly, that the Serbian Radical Party cannot support these supplements. These aren't laws, these are just supplements, and these are very small cosmetic supplements. When our citizens listen to this debate, they can't even see what we're talking about and why we're talking about it. I will be free to give an example only from the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. You have six members here. In these six members, which only adds: "most of the votes of all the MPs". It's this important law, it's this epochal thing that's gonna have to set up a session on Friday at 12 o'clock in a hurry, to bring such changes. It is the playful and disprovement of the mockery of parliamentaryism and the seriousness of working in the Assembly, in which we are now working. We have the law, of course, first on the Ombudsman, or, as it's called, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. He doesn't have a citizen's salvation despite the law. Of course, we still don't have an ombudsman, although we should have him long ago. Our citizen is exposed to a daily robbery. I'll tell you the example of health care, it's the closest thing to me. You have from this government and from the previous government a systematic robbery of Serbian citizens. How? Exactly through one, the god, the legal system and non-standard health services. When you go to buy a newspaper, you have to get a fiscal bill, and in health care there's so-called. non-standard services in 270 health institutions in Serbia. Tens of thousands of citizens had to pay out of their pocket non-standard service daily. What's the matter? There's no fiscal bill. What's up? He's got a block bill. How do you get non-standard services? The director and board of directors determine what is an unstandard service, a set and a price. Then black funds are created that way because they are not subject to social control. How many of these do you get a year? A minimum of 220 billion euros. Where's he going? He's going to get a so-called. the needs of the facility. How? Without a tender, friendly, party companies are paid some favors to bloated accounts. It's the everyday way to rob a citizen. Today you have an interesting debate in our society. Namely, non-standard service is also an epidural anesthesia of birth control. You hear today, you who are leading to Europe, that your representatives are talking in the media, and they are not ashamed, that we should pay for the disability of delivery today, that we should pay for the father's presence in childbirth today. Where does that pay in Europe, I ask you? Take the Atlantic countries, America, and take Australia. The Minister of Resorni assures us that the pain is to suffer something that is natural. So much ignorance and so much inhumanity I haven't heard recently. That's what we're exposed to today. I won't talk about this third law any longer, that's clear. It just changes one term where you say, instead of having seven years of experience, it takes five years of experience. By bringing in this kind of personnel, by lowering the criteria, it's clear what we want, the collapse of our system, the collapse of institutions. It's like seeing this young foreign minister go to Rome and he can't handle the protocol stuff, so he starts running left-right when he greets and plays the anthem, like watching this "SIS Agency", if you're looking at the checkout list, right there, they took down the minister in that chaotic left-right movement. So we're not voting for this. What you're doing is throwing out a parliamentary life mockery.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2255	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2256	Ladies and gentlemen, when you came to power in 2000 and 2001, you promised Serbian citizens, as you like to say, to use foreign words, some kind of transparency. Well, he couldn't concentrate on anything but the story of how all the funds from the budget, which are folk, that are collected on taxes, would be spent transparently. To this day, we've seen you adopt budgets, we've seen you adopt laws from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, but still MPs, since 2000, haven't had a chance to see you spend your budget. Apparently, there was one attempt during 2005, I guess as an excuse for what has happened so far, as an excuse for everything you haven't done so far, to write such a law on the state audit institution, to satisfy the form, how the law of the new democracy is; it was not a proposer of the Government, but a Committee of Finance and People's MPs. In one part of the story I have to agree with you, the law is something better than most of the laws you've passed so far, and that's because you've accepted the largest number of amendments to the Serbian Radical Party in this law. It is obvious that you and the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party cannot quite correct the law. Here, since 2005, since we passed this law, we still don't have a state-level audit institution, there's no one to control how ministers have been spending people's money since 2000. The reason was often much, non-cooperation with The Hague, so Mladjan Dinkic will not participate in law-making, etc., then the adoption of the constitution. Somehow you've always found reasons not to apply one law. It's not the law that's a problem, it's the law you're applying. What's the reason now? We now have amendments and additions to the Law, so it is said in these amendments and additions that, in Article 16, jobs related to the competences of the institution, instead of 7 years, can be handled with five years of experience. Here's a reason: we don't have enough experts. It will be more likely that the reason you do not have enough obedient people to put in one of these state-level audit institutions is because if you put honest and real experts, after reviewing the budget spending, the audit will go to the prosecutor's office for all-ministers from the government of Zoran Djindjic, from the government of Zoran Zivkovic, from the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's your problem. Furthermore, if you didn't think that you were distracting the Serbian public about how you're doing something and how you're doing it in the interest of the citizens, how there's nothing to hide from the citizens, you'd have already applied Article 18. The law, which also provides certain restrictions on how audits can be done. In Article 16, you also delete one member, I will return a little later to Article 18, paragraph 2, which says - a member of the Council may be elected a person who was not a member of the government's body two years before the election, or a member of the Council of Ministers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Come on, this last one, if he wasn't a member of the Council of Ministers of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, I can understand why you're erasing it, because you've ruined both the state union and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as you ruin everything you reach, but I don't understand why you're erasing it -- that a member of the government can be a member of the Council two years ago. Or maybe it's already in Article 18, let's go back to that article, which says, in Section 2. - a member of the Council shall not be able to participate and decide in the audit procedure if he has been employed by a person who has been subject to an audit or has performed certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, and since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work has not been completed for five years. In translation, under the form of the public in the work and form of dedicated spending, you will form a Council, and since it is not only written who will be a member of the council, it is likely that some of the former ministerial assistants, deputy ministers, ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be members of the Council, will be doing some revisions of minor economic entities, public institutions. When it comes to budget spending, you will find an excuse -- well, you know what, we can't do a revision of the Republic of Serbia's budget because the members of the Council are from a government that expired two or three years ago, and there will be no audits of business and spending of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Once again, I can't get away with it, which is that when you finally elected this government, somehow there was no euphoria here. You did not look forward to it, and that says you are aware that this is the last time you have cheated on the citizens of Serbia. You are aware that the coming of a government in which the Serbian Radical Party will be, following the audit of the State Auditing Institution, will be audited by the public prosecutor's office and judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2257	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2258	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Serbia wants to join the European Union, the current government wants to prove through inflation, the adoption of various laws to the European Union that we are becoming a democratic society, that we will join European assets and that we will respect and adopt these European values. I'd like to remind you just, maybe some of you didn't know, but I'll tell you that Serbia is a country occupied, a country whose safety is threatened, a country to which a dark light has been thrown, a state whose citizens and politicians are condemned and judged as people who have only a hate speech, like people who don't deserve human dignity. I'll quote and list some facts, because they're also related to the draft laws that are on the agenda today. Of the many often incredible statements, a statement of hatred for the Serbian people, we here list only a few, and those that came from Europeans, which are related to the following. At first, we should certainly quote what Peter Justin said, and what Zoran Pirocanac put in the cover of his book. As a very impressive UNICEF ambassador, Justin's column in London's European weekly, 10.6.1993, also wrote this: "The animals use their resources much happier than these upside-down creatures," he thinks of Serbs, "whose belonging to the human race is in great delay. “ Do you see what the Democrats and Europeans tell us that the Democrats in our country want to leave and serve them as long as they want. The Polish daily Žice Warsaw published the following in February 1990 -- Serbs only understand the language of the force, and Helmut Kol was also very direct when he said in early 1998 that Serbs should surrender in their own smell, similar to his minister Kinkel, who said in 27.5.1992 that Serbs should be forced to kneel. Tamara Honal: "The Serbs are the people of money, rotten apples in the barrel of Europe." It is more than an interesting incident that took place at a meeting of the heads of state and governments of the European Union in Paris in 1995. First, Greek Minister Papandreou spoke of a civil war being waged in Bosnia with elements of religious war, but Jacques Shirak cut it rough and undiplomatically, in words -- let me interrupt you, Mr. President, Serbs are a people without law, without faith, a people of robbers and terrorists. This incident has been precedentd and has only been broadcast in the Paris-based log of another television. With the end of NATO's bombing, however, the campaign of hate speech against Serbs has not ended. On the contrary, in statements by many, and by ordinary people, but also by European officials, they could still hear statements that went beyond hate. To conclude, we only mention very characteristic statements here. What did the one who became Minister of France say today? Bernard Kouchner, who was head of a civil mission at the time in Kosovo, said in a documentary report broadcast on state television France at the end of March 2000: "We had nine killed Serbs last week, we were eight this week. It's a visible advance. "General Michael Jackson, the British commander of KFOR, according to the New York Times, said in February 2000 -- the fewer Serbs in Kosovo, the less left, the easier Kosovo will be provided. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, these calls to our friends can be said to be the greatest enemies of the Serbian people, because they have proven so, and this is also published in the "Criminology and Criminal Law Review" in Belgrade, the Association for Criminal Law and the Institute in Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Ombudsman, this is a law that looks more like a law on hunting and fishing or a law on wine and brandy. It contains 15 or 20 members, but still does not care that this is extremely important matter, which is treated by all three laws, especially the Law on the Protector of Citizens. What was it necessary to do? There's a hundred things that need to be regulated by law. There are numerous gaps left. I'll draw your attention and point to the parallel right, as regulated. What should be kept in mind that such a convention would ensure the role of the Ombudsman as an effective servant of law, government and citizens? First, to justify the legal basis of the Ombudsman institution in the Constitution. We have it provided in the Constitution, it's undeniable. Then, regulation of individual functions and ombudsman institutions only by one law; description of the positive and negative preconditions for setting up the Ombudsman; establishment of a larger quorum instead of a free majority to choose the Ombudsman. A larger quorum, as it regulates parallel law in the countries of Western Europe and the European Union, for impeachment than for the election of the Ombudsman. Next, clear rules for the revocation of the Ombudsman; granting immunity and privileges depending on whether the state's development rate requires or justifies it; a salary that excludes a tendency to corruption. Furthermore, taking care of the Ombudsman after leaving office because it is guaranteeing the easiest access to the citizen of the Ombudsman institution. How have our citizens, according to this law, been informed? What are the ways for them to come and be informed? The ombudsman institution's headquarters should not be within the administration, it is very important that it be dislocated, that someone does not directly influence it. The ombudsman's competencies - to inform and give advice, to check complaints based on citizens' demands, to check presumed irregularities ex-office, means officially. Then, the right to make recommendations with the obligation of the recipient to respond to the recommendation submitted. The right obligation to submit regular and extraordinary reports. The right to apply for retrial proceedings, this is not envisaged in our case, in accordance with the requirements and state of development of society and state. There is also the right to submit requests for review of the standards of jurisdiction in a particular court, to file requests to the relevant courts for the purpose of making decisions in disputes with the authorities of the administration, as well as the connection with other Supreme State Authorities, for example, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, by criminal civil matters, the Administrative Court, the Supreme Supervisory Authorities, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, to shed light on issues of importance for the work of the Ombudsman, issues which, in essence, fall outside its jurisdiction. It is an obligation for a citizen, according to the state of affairs, to be personally available. Furthermore, to deploy administrative affairs as far as possible within the framework of his institution, regardless of his final responsibility, so that he could devote himself to his work in the capacity of the Ombudsman. Then, guaranteeing freedom in respect of the rights, orders and independence of the Ombudsman, through its own budget and the right to elect official staff; the right of the Ombudsman to step down and to consider his reports in parliamentary committees and plenary sessions of parliament. A ban on suspending the ombudsman institution due to the introduction of emergency and wartime. You see, this is a very important thing. If a state of emergency were introduced, as was introduced in 2003, if we had the Ombudsman at the time, we would not have experienced 12.5 thousand innocent citizens being arrested and held in prisons without being delivered to this day, so to say, no verdict. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this law, both with respect to the Commissioner and with respect to the Guardian of Citizens, was essential to work out, to do one study in parallel law, through the Institute of Comparative Law. In this case, we would have a summary, specifically elaborate law, a law that would allow our citizens to turn to someone, protect them and thus protect civil rights, because that's how the Serbian Radical Party wants to be protected. When I spoke of hate speech, we were accused both of the outside and of the enemies I spoke of, and helped by accomplices in this country, that Vojislav Seselj was also accused of hate speech. Was it enough for you, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, if you heard what the heads of government and the state of the European Union said about Serbs and the Serbian people? Vojislav Seselj did not speak with hate speech. These are enemies, those who spoke with the greatest hate speech in the history of the Serbian people. Finally, let me just once again point out that the SRS is proud and that Professor Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, is very respected and respected in the Serbian people, along with his large and respected Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2259	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. You have nine and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity today to in one very difficult day for Serbia, because in this assembly there has been a new violation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, we see what democracy looks like when this current assembly majority is being implemented. To be honest, I have to say that the day didn't start so bad, because at 10 a.m. on the Finance Committee, most of the council members refused to propose that Radovan Jelasic be the new governor of the National Bank. Indeed, this committee, chaired by Mrs Tabakovic, proved to have had a great moral strength to say that people who were the subject of many affairs in the last period, who led bad and fiscal and monetary policy, cannot re-represent the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. However, after the beginning of the session, today, we had the opportunity to see that, in spite of all those objections made by the SRS MPs, and at the previous session concerning the violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, particularly points 5 and 9 that speak about what must be the order of this session, there will be a violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law again and there will be no such item on the agenda. We have a united discussion today on three laws, on the law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, the Law on Auditory Institution and, of course, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. In addition to the fact that all the laws on the agenda are unconstitutional, i.e. in disagreement with the Constitutional Law, I must say that, because of the public, when we talk about the details of these laws, we will say something about the fact that it is simply unserious to talk about whether, for example, the Commissioner for Information can initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality when there is no body before which this process could be initiated. The Constitutional Court was not adopted, which was also the constitutional obligation of the President of the Assembly and the Government. There are no proposals for the Constitutional Court judges and you are now, literally, both citizens of Serbia and the People's MPs, hostages and the majority and government, who can assess at will whether something is constitutional or not and whether all the acts that are filed are in accordance with our lex superiors. Unfortunately, there is no government obligation in Serbia today, or as a legal solution, but there is no way or mechanism to force authorities to provide you with information that you have the right to. Even Mr. Sabic, who has performed this function so far, has repeatedly told the public that he was completely impossible, that there is no mechanism that could force the public authorities to give some information and that they were constantly stalling it, that they were trying to make fun of the law and the will of the citizens, and in fact, they were doing it successfully. We now see what a desire and attempt by the authorities to make these cosmetic changes just a little more beautiful, but we still don't have a Protector. We don't have a Protector of citizens, and we're talking about amendments and additions to the Civil Protection Act. The term of office of seven years, and yet I say, regarding the law on the availability of information, which is foreseen for the holder of this function, is inappropriate. It reflects the desire of the authorities to house some of their staff and to provide them with a long internship, to make sure in such a way that even after the change of government, and I'm sure it will be very soon, that man remains in that position. I must add that, as we have already entered into violation of the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution and when we have not discussed the points that are on the agenda, much better, and for this majority here and for the citizens of Serbia, that we have discussed Kosovo and Metohija. I see there's almost no one mentioning the subject anymore. When we chose the Serbian government, the first thing we saw, we saw ministers showing up in Athens. I think maybe people went to talk about some important topic for Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, about some economic reform. No, they went to the game. The Liverpool-Milan football game. After that, Boris Tadic and Ollie Rehn in Finland again at the football game. Where are the talks on Kosovo? In the end, we trust Russia to save Kosovo without our government wanting to do anything against those who rob us of Kosovo. At the moment we say yes, we want to join NATO, Boris Tadic said that, Russia is sending a signal that it will take it as an act of hostility. Again, we ask Russia and Vladimir Putin to veto and save Kosovo and Metohija. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, which is before us, is very interesting. This law was passed in the previous term and we did not have a Protector of citizens at the time. Here, today we are talking about amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, and there is no Protector of Citizens. It's not even on the agenda. Apparently, there's a will to keep that protector away. It is fortunate for Serbian citizens to have their Serbian Radical Party to protect them from all the corruption and crime the government is carrying, from all the unscrupulous, immoral, criminal and corruption moves they are making. They don't have any citizens to turn to anymore. Even when they have someone to turn to, they get some pointless answers. Whom to turn to when they are destroyed every day, as is happening in Belgrade, and kiosks, and temporary facilities, of which they support families and for which they pay taxes, hire workers and help the country's economy, such as what Italy did in the 1960s to start its fallen economy. I know it is unfortunate that the state of business of Serbia today is like in Italy 50 years ago, but this government and all of these have been here since 2000, which have successfully destroyed the country's economy. Now they're trying to take away a piece of bread for people who survive. Who should be addressed by citizens of the new Belgrade block 43 who are moving out of their homes within the next few days, from temporary facilities where they have been housed for 30 years and no one will say where they are going with these people? They are our neighbours and our friends, they are citizens of Serbia and have the right to protection. There is no government in the Republic of Serbia to protect citizens. Here is the will to take as much as possible, to take away from the citizens of Serbia, and you don't care about the citizens. What do they do when the directors of the business space get rich, when they don't even know how many squares their business spaces have year by year, and then, when they find out the deficit in the state firm, they move it to a higher function, into the city, they forget. When you say that, nothing, you raise the hands of the majority and "eat the cat" etc. When we come to the law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution, in addition to the fact that the law is anti-constitutional and incompatible with the Law implementing the Constitution, I must say that this law is truly monstrous and that there is a will to do with it certain things that have been done in the previous period. The competition for members of the Council of this institution is under way. Although it is under the Constitutional Law that the choice of these people is on the agenda today, we have an ongoing competition and ends only next Wednesday, as early as next Friday will be the session of the Finance Committee, where proposals for these people will be or will not be adopted, and only then will they be able to come on the agenda. It was a procedure prescribed by the Constitution. That's what's supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2261	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2262	What's going on in the bill of amendments? The seven years of employment in institutions that were relevant for the performance of this job shall be reduced to five years. This clearly shows that people who need to come to these places are existing, that their names are already recorded somewhere and that, unfortunately, now, what is not in any country in the world, the law agrees with their professional and working ability. That's fascinating! This is really the sunflower and the twilight of parliamentaryism. Not even the ruling majority allowed this to happen. For the Council of Such an institution, which essentially deals with anti-corruption matter, this should not have happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2263	Please finish. You had nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2264	Very little. The job that experts are dealing with -- obviously there's no intention of being honest and honest people, so they'll never get to see all the random spending of budget money, so we never know where the taxpayers' money is held, the budget money, in which banks, who decided to be there and under what conditions. These are very important topics. I know that MPs of the ruling majority, who are not in the O.R. or very few, are not interested. This is another topic that concerns the lives of Serbian citizens, who are also not interested. They have provided their lives well, and you citizens of Serbia - what will you do. I think the affairs in this country in the past seven years have marked Serbia in a specific way, Serbia has become very famous as the country of the affair. There's been an affair, not to mention them now, but you know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2265	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2266	The lack of expert audit and almost four years without a final account, since 2001, we had only a few days ago an attempt to deliver a final bill to us and to discuss amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, which the Government withdrew as unconstitutional, also shows us all incompetence and intricacies of the Government. Since 2001, we haven't had a chance to see how the funds of taxpayers projected by the budget have been spent. We don't have a chance to check whether they're spent on purpose or not. It shows and tells everything about this government and the governments that were before it. Anyway, to finish, all of this shows that it's a very bad legal solution. No wonder legal solutions are bad when proposed by a government like this. With the Serbian Radical Party's proposal to vote in confidence soon on the agenda, it is best that the government resigns itself before that, to entrust Serbia with the SRS's next elections, which will be able to extract the country from the economic crisis and lead its citizens into a free and normal life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2267	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by the People's MP Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2268	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not speak of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, because you've thrown so much dignity under your feet that I don't think there's any point in advertising that member of the Rules of Procedure anymore. Earlier, while counterpart Nebojsa Stefanovic spoke for this speaker, an DS MP cursed his mother, I guess nervous that he must listen to the MPs telling the truth about DS, about crime, about thieves, who conduct "the yellow thief enterprise". I didn't mean to answer the Rules of Procedure at all. What I'm trying to say right now was I could say next Tuesday, but I only answered because you're nervous and I want you to show your true face. I want to exercise my right and warn you, gentlemen who voted for Oliver Dulic, that it's really high time you taught that young gentleman that there's something called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you teach him to apply that Rules of Procedure. This time I'm talking about Article 229. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Under that article, after the verification of the mandate of the issuing and the special legislation has been carried out, the MP shall be issued. Dear colleagues, our verification of the mandate was carried out on 14 February. It will be almost four months, and Mr. Dulic and you who are the congregation majority do not think to at least end that formality. You didn't want to do this at the time of Mrs Borka Vukic's chairmanship, you didn't want to do it at the time when the president was Tomislav Nikolic, because you didn't want any honorable name that would sign that parliamentary ID. You've been waiting for your Oliver Dulic. Now I ask you and I ask him, I don't know where he is all day, he didn't notify the National Assembly, did he go across the street again, to Boris Tadic, whether he stopped the traffic again, like the other day, when he drove to the car across the street, but all the people had to be removed, because, my God, he's crossing Oliver Dulic Street, he's going to Boris Tadic. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suppose you from the congregation's majority should take care of it, and I suppose you know that you should have parliamentary legitimacy, so that you can legitimateize yourself as MPs in certain places, especially those who never go out for this pay phone, so they don't know you. If not for us, what for your sake, it would be good for Mr. Dulic to issue us parliamentary IDs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-08-0.u2269	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution. This concludes today's workday. The session is due Tuesday at 10 pm.
