ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9743	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 178 MPs attend. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Ivica Dacic and Vesna Pesic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DISCUSSION AND NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE COMMISSION As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision before we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraph 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, resolves and appoints members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission by a majority vote of all the National Assembly MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. For 168, it did not vote 36 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in principle. For 129 against 23, it did not vote 15 out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Srdjan Shain, who has been proposed to add a new article 1 in front of Article 1 and a new article 1a is added under Article 1. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 62, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nenad Canak. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 171, 29 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Marton and Alexander Jerkov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 203, three of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, of 220 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 6th amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 187, against 20, it did not vote 14 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 6th amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 210, with two abstentions, it was not 11 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 146, against one, it did not vote 75 out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 128, 15 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mr Dejan Mirovic and Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 129, 18 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dr Bojan Milovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 129, 16 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 129, 17 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 129, 19 of the 226 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 130, it did not vote 19 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, in general. For 130, against 22, it did not vote 74 out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Government Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COUNTRY OF COUNTRY After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, in principle. For 130, against 22, 17 of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Srdjan Shain, to add a new member of the 1st and National MP Peter Cvetkovic to Article 2. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 130, 17 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 129, 85 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MP Laslo Varga and Balint Pastor. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, v. 127, it did not vote 89, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, in general. For 131 against 24, 26 of the 181 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Laws on Payments of State Officials and PUBLICATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in principle. For 134, against 17, it did not vote 10 out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 132 abstention, one did not vote 15, out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the law of civil servants and deputies, in general. For 134, against 23, there was no vote of three, of 160 MPs. The National Assembly passed the draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. For 141, against 9, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 3. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 125, they did not vote 23, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 141 versus 9, 9 were not voted, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the State Seal of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. For 135, against seven, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17 out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 129, he did not vote 21, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 130, it did not vote 19, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 130, 17 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 129, 18 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 134 against 18, 17 of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State and other AUTHORITIES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies, in principle. For 131 against 13, it did not vote 16 out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 131, 18 of the 229 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 130, it did not vote 19, of the 229 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 127, he did not vote 91, of the 228 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 131, 17 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 129, 17 of the 228 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 129, 17 of the 227 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 128, it did not vote 16 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 130, 15 of the 225 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies, in general. For 131 against 15, 17 of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CERTIFICATE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, in principle. For 133, against 16, 12 of the 161 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 128, it did not vote 18 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 128, 18 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 126, 19 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, 26 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, there was no vote of 20, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, it did not vote 19, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sasa Valjarevic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 128, 15 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 127, 17 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 127, there were no 16 votes, of 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, there was no vote of 20, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, 17 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, it did not vote 18 out of 221 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act in general. For 133, against 15, six out of 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Organization and Oversight of State Organs in the War Crimes Procedure Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in principle. For 135, against 77, there was no vote of 10, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 127, there were no 16 votes, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 127, 17 of the 223 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 127, 15 of the 222 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in general. For 136, against 80, did not vote 7, of the 223 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of United Nations on Combating Desertification in Countries with Heavy Drought and/or Desertification, especially in AFRICA Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, in principle. Seven out of 153 MPs didn't vote for 146. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, in general. For 145, it did not vote 8 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly passed the bill. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONFORMATION OF THE CONVENTION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION IN THE CROMAC CONTECTION As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, in principle. For 147, six of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, in general. For 143, 10 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context. We move on to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONCERNING THE FUND CONVENTION ON PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF CARPATS As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in principle. For 143 against one, it did not vote 9 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in general. Seven out of 153 MPs didn't vote for 146. The National Assembly adopted most of the votes a bill confirming the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats. For 147, six of the 153 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, in general. For 145, it did not vote 8 out of 153 MPs. Most of the votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlifes Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the Bill's Proposal, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of Wildlife Migration Species, in principle. Seven out of 153 MPs didn't vote for 146. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals, in general. For 144, it did not vote 8 out of 152 MPs. Most of the votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a SECURATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF BLACK GORE ON SOCIAL ASSESSMENT As the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on social security, in principle. For 144, six out of 150 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on social security, in general. For 142, 9 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has mostly adopted a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on Social Insurance. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and Romania on the meeting of the state-run border between Serbia and Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by the three-way border code and HER CONSERVATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law and the transition to decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 of Article 3(6). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border mark and its maintenance, in principle. For 148, they did not vote four out of 152 MPs. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border mark and its maintenance, in general. For 147, five out of 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has mostly adopted a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, marked by a three-way border mark and its maintenance. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Land of Benelux on the UKING OF THE VIS FOR VEHICLES OF DIPLOMATIC AND SERVANT PARS Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search of the bill and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, under Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the governments of the Benelux countries on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in principle. For 147, six of the 153 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the governments of the Benelux countries on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. Seven out of 153 MPs didn't vote for 146. The National Assembly has mostly adopted a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the governments of the Benelux countries on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL WITH THE CRIMINAL CONVENTION ON CORPTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption, in principle. For 137, against one, it did not vote 15 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption, in general. For 140, it did not vote 13, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol under the Criminal Convention on Corruption. We move to the 20th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Civil Rights Convention on Corruption Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, in principle. For 134, against 6, 12 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, in general. For 137, there was no vote of 16 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONCERNING THE FUND CONTRIBUTION OF THE GOVERNMENTAL BOOK OF THE SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE As the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 of Article 3(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, in principle. For 133, it did not vote 20 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, in general. He did not vote 21 for 131, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the loan framework contract concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE COURT ON TRADE AND THE ECONOMY OF THE SERBIA AND THE GOVERNING OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA As the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India in principle. For 143, it did not vote 8 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India, in general. For 139, it did not vote 11 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and the Black Gore and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to income tax and property tax, since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the bill confirming the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in principle. For 142, 9 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. For 144, six out of 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes. We move to the 24th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the SARAD AND TERMINAL ASSISTANCE IN THE CARINAL QUESTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters, in principle. For 145, it did not vote 6, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters, in general. For 146, five of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. We move to the 25th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON TERMINAL ASSISTANCE IN THE CARINAL QUESTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, in principle. For 142, there was no vote of 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, in general. For 143, it did not vote 7, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters. We move to the 26th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS (SERBIA SERBIA Railways) Between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Serbian Railways – Wagons) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 142, there was no vote of 8 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee (Serb Railways - Vehicles) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 144, it did not vote 7, of the 151 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (The Railways of Serbia - Wagon) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to the 27th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF CERTIFICATE OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK (PROGRAMME OF THE GOVERNMENT) Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Train Reconstruction Project II), in principle. For 145, it did not vote 6, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Train Reconstruction Project II), in general. For 142, against two, it did not vote 7, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Train Reconstruction Project II) We are moving to the 28th point of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A CONCERNATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE LEGAL NETWORK IN SOUTH EUROPEAN EUROPE After the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law and before the transition to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6) of the Law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the establishment of a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe, in principle. For 143 against 6, three of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the establishment of a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe, in general. For 144, against 7, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the Agreement on the establishment of a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe. We move to the 29th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a PROTOCOL OF 3. June 1999. Years on amendments to the Convention on International Railway Vehicles (COTIF) of 9. May 1980. YEARS (1999 PROTOCOL) AND THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADES (COTIF) OF 9. May 1980. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. June 1999. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transportation (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version under the Protocol on the amendments of 3 June 1999, in principle. For 142, against one, it did not vote 8 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transportation (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version under the Protocol on the amendments of 3 June 1999, in general. For 139 against one, the abstentioned one did not vote 11 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transportation (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version under the Protocol on Amendments of 3 June 1999. We move to the 30th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONCERNING THE AKA OF THE WORLD PASSE AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Law on affirmation of acts of the World Postal Union, in principle. For 145, it did not vote 7, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I'm putting the bill on the bill to confirm the acts of the World Postal Federation, in general. For 141, it did not vote 11 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill confirming the acts of the World Postal Union. We move to the 31st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON A CONSOLIDATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE OF THE PUBLICATION After the National Assembly has carried out a joint single search under which it has discussed the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Commissioner's act on information of public importance, we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner's act on information of public importance. For 136, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner's act on information of public importance. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE CITIZER'S ACT After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Act of the Protector of Citizens. For 147, six of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Civil Protection Act. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC InterpretATION OF ARTICLE 127. Article 1 And two. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Law on Higher Education ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No 76/05). There were no 38 votes for 147, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Law on Higher Education ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No 76/05). We move to the 34th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AS THE National Assembly has conducted a unique search on the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the blockade and isolation of the United States of America, we move to a decision on the amendments. On behalf and text of the proposal for a declaration, the amendments were submitted by 205 MPs. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 209, v 10, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. At the title of the amendment's proposal, MPs together submitted: Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 203, two abstentions, 9 did not vote, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 202, with five abstentions, 9 did not vote, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 202, three abstentions, 12 did not vote, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 204, the abstentions of five, did not vote 9, of the 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6 against 206, a abstentioned one did not vote 12 out of 225 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 198, abstention four, there was no vote of 16, of 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since the National Assembly has completed its decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a declaration in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the blockade and isolation of the Republic of Cuba by the United States. For 209, v 10, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the blockade and isolation of the Republic of Cuba by the United States. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 1 October 2007, at 10.47 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 90. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 70, against 125, they did not vote 22, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 4 October 2007 at 10.50 hours, indicated that the president of the National Assembly had injured Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 74, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 11 October 2007 at 11.05 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly had injured Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 68, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session of 11 October 2007 at 11.10 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly had injured Article 104, Article 225, Article 226 and Article 199(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 71, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 15 October 2007, at 11.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 65, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 15 October 2007 at 14.55 p.m., indicated that Article 98 was injured. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For five, against 125, two abstentions, he did not vote 81, of 213 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Nada Kolundzija, at a session on 25 October 2007, at 15.25 pm, said that the chairman of Esad Djudjevic, vice-president of the National Assembly, injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by failing to give notice to MP Veriqa Radeti on charges brought by a parliamentary group. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 23, against 96 abstentions 69, they did not vote 23, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 25 October 2007 at 15.50 hours, said Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 72, against 122, 19 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 29 October 2007 at 10.10 pm, indicated that Dr Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly, injured Article 84. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 73, against 119, two abstentions, 17 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the meeting after this session is over, in O.R. One. The beginning of the second session is today at 15.00 hours. The session is closed at 12.50 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9744	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH OTHER SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 5th November 2007 (The first day of work) (The session began at 15.10 p.m. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 180 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dacic and Vesna Pesic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Tuesday, October 30, 2007, that is, at the end of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which means, in this case, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the July 13, 16, 17, 18 and 23, 2007, the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24 September 2007 and the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2007, held on 25 and 26 September 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes of the session of the 6th, 8th and 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2007. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to the minutes of these sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the July 13, 16, 17, 18 and 23, 2007 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They didn't vote 44 for 132, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of its session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 13, 16, 17, 18 and 23 July 2007. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24 September 2007. For 131, they did not vote 44, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2007, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24 September 2007. 3. I am voting on the minutes of the September 25th and 26th 2007 session of the 9th extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 131, they did not vote 42, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of its session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 25 and 26 September 2007. In the assembly and corrections of these sessions, which have been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, to bring the debate together and to change the order of the agenda. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the ease of the visa procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 138, he did not vote 41, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 6, they did not vote 44, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the protocol, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, against 6, there was no vote of 40, out of 176 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for a project of clinical centres, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 130, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 44, out of 176 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Resuscitation", which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 13, against 126, 37 of the 176 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic proposed that, in an emergency procedure, the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 1 June 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 9, against 126, there was no vote of 40, out of 175 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting be put on the agenda, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 19 June 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For seven against 115, with an abstention of eight, there was no vote of 43, out of 173 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Public Procurement Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2007, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 16, against 127, 27 of the 170 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the anti-discrimination bill, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 15, against 123, 32 of the 170 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Nenad Canak proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the draft law prohibiting the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols or markings, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 12, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, out of 170 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, suggested that the draft declaration on acceptance of a new system of values, Serbia's commitment to European integration and the obligation to punish those responsible for war crimes, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 19 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 15, against 124, 30 of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic, proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Security of Citizens, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 17, against 125, the three abstentions, did not vote 25, out of 170 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 16 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 18, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 16 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 19, against 124, 23 of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 16 MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 19, against 121, 27 of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 81 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the necessity of respect for the constitutional rights of the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and condemning acts and measures aimed at limiting and abolishing the state-level prerogatives of Republika Srpska, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 54, against 128, there were 14 out of 196 MPs. Also, I remind you that you have received proposals from MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, that, on the basis of Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda of this session, extends the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the necessity of respect for the constitutional rights of the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and condemnations of acts and measures aimed at limiting and abolishing the national legal prerogatives of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the MPs of the SRS Group on 31 October 2007 and, in accordance with Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this point is classified and considered as the first item of the agenda of this session. Given that the National Assembly has not accepted the Group proposal from the 81 People's MP of the SRS to consider the motion for a resolution by emergency procedure, I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 138(1), paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure may be included in the agenda of the National Assembly within a period of not less than 15 days from the date of its submission, which shall be based on Article 160. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also apply accordingly to the procedure for the adoption of other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly. Given that the proposed resolution was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2007 and that the deadline of 15 days has not yet expired since the date of submission, and the motion to consider it is not accepted, the Rules of Procedure have not yet reached the conditions for the National Assembly to decide at this session that the session agenda should be extended to that point. National MP Nada Kolundji, based on Article 90(3), Articles 140, 2nd and 149a. Article 3 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint single search on: - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the Facilitated Procedure for the issuing of visas, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the reading of persons who are illegally staying and - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 126, against 17, a abstentioned one, did not vote 53, out of 197 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, to merge the debate and to change the order of the agenda points, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 132 against one, it did not vote 64 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier procedure for issuing visas, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, and 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation with the Protocol. According to the Rules of Procedure, the following MPs reported: Cedomir Jovanovic, Balint Pastor, Slobodan Maras, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic and Vjerica Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9746	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported in accordance with Articles 226 and 225. According to Article 226, I would like to ask you, Mr. President, to answer the question which is also the way to the cause of the problem to which I will ask you, Mr. Jocic. Namely, Mr. Dulic, you, as President of Parliament, owe us at least one official piece of information, because what you have given us as information through your statement to the media is not something that we as a parliamentary group will agree to. I would remind you, Mr. Dulic, of the existence of a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines deadlines for calling presidential, regional and local elections in our country. I'd like to remind you of your statements. I saw them as statements from the representatives of this institution, not as statements from a party official. And therefore, I ask you as President of Parliament to at this moment confirm or deny the existence and respect of the Constitution and the Law for the implementation of the Constitution in our country. In fact, Parliament cannot be the party service of the president and prime minister. We have nothing against idyllic relations, which are characteristic of the last few days, within the DS and DSS coalition, but it is unacceptable to extend the bases on which the legal and constitutional obligation to call elections in our country was built. So, Mr. Dulic, I ask you to find in the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia the basis for the formulation that has been told us from the Office of the President of the Republic and confirmed by the Office of the Prime Minister. Since when is this the term 'terroral integrity' criterion for calling elections in our country? If so, then let us be told who made that decision and when. If, meanwhile, that decision is made then let Parliament's confirmation of such a thing be sought, but the elections in this country cannot depend on the personal interests of the president and prime minister, but on the need of our society to round up the political system. For you, Mr. Jocic, we need to ask a question as a police minister, a question that wouldn't have been asked if you had answered the questions you had previously been asked. Today, the most powerful company in our country has threatened the trial of the president of the Anti-Corruption Council because the president of the Council delivered an opinion criticising the company's work. I don't think there would be any basis for that lawsuit and the threat that you, as minister of police, have answered one of the many parliamentary questions of our parliamentary group. We ask you once again – what happens to the items in the Ministry of the Interior, where the work of the company "Delta" has been processed? What happens to the cases the police captain Darko Stanic worked on, and who is responsible for this kind of impunity that gives the company the basis for dealing with the government's institution, which is certainly the Council for Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It's unacceptable that in such a way... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, time. All right, I quoted the Constitution, if you don't want to let me... (President: Go ahead, finish the question, just please hurry. ) So, please, Mr. Jocic, just answer the question – whose drawer contains 10 items that now provide the basis for the country's most powerful company with the government's Anti-Corruption Council? We referred you to these items, told you the name of the officer who conducted the investigation, the number of these cases, and we are prepared to continue to assist you, but we will not allow a reckoning with the Anti-Corruption Council, because it is a reckoning with a healthy and honest opinion in our society. If someone has 16% of gross social product, they can't own 100% of our lives with that 16%.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9747	Mr. Jovanovic, your time is up. Thank you very much. Let me give you an answer to your question. No moment has been questioned by respect for the provisions of the Constitutional Law that define the calling of elections. The elections will be called by 31 December 2007. The only thing that can change is a change of constitutional law, which should be done here in Parliament by two-thirds of the majority. On my part, therefore, there is no obligation or even obligation under the agreement of the leaders of the political parties who make up the parliamentary majority here. Here's an answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9748	The Ministry of the Interior has notified and noted everything that has been said on the Security Committee, and as much as my memory serves, MP Maraš has presented and provided a number of specific items. We will certainly consider this matter in detail and not simply give an answer to the parliamentary question, but, if that is true, we will take certain criminal-processing actions. I thank you, Mr Jovanovic, for your help, that is, your MP, but make sure that we examine it in detail. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9749	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balint Pastor and then Slobodan Maras appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9750	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 225, I would like to inform the MPs that on November 2nd, Radio Sombor was sold, Radio Srbobran and the Information and Propagandic Center of the Tower. On October 29th, I asked the president what we should do, so what else should be done by the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians in order to put our draft law on amendments and additions to the Broadcasting Law on the agenda. That's when I didn't get the answer. When I reiterated the question on October 30th, Mr. Dulic said that we want to show that the state does not want to solve the problem and that we are just campaigning on the issue. We wanted to solve the problem, and that is why we submitted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting on 19 June, but Cuba was more important in this National Assembly. On 30 October, we managed to reach an agreement because Mrs Nada Kolundzia, president of the DS parliamentary group, promised that we could start a discussion on the issue. I then said that we launched this issue in 2004, that since December 2004, there has been an international obligation of the Republic of Serbia to amend the Law on Broadcasting in the way we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law. The Kolundji hope has also promised that privatisation processes will be halted until an agreement is reached. She also said that DS is ready to support our proposal or proposal similar to ours, if we prove that in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and today there are media that are municipally owned, and these countries are members of the European Union. So it's not true that he defended the OSCE and the Council of Europe for the Law on Broadcasting to be as content as we suggested. I also have to say that Radio Sombor and the Tower Information and Propagandical Center might have bought it with the best intentions. We can't argue that, we can assume that, but there is a possibility of reducing the degree of acquired information rights in the languages of national minorities. I also have to say that the Ministry's Regulation on the way of privatisation does not mean a guarantee, because that regulation only contains that five years of continuity in production, broadcasting, the program must respect the owner, but only on condition that it has a frequency. Unfortunately, the DS deceived us twice in 2002 when the promise was made to amend the law, and the second time on October 30, because the media was privatised. Regardless of the fact that DS's responsibility for the sale of minority media exists, I would only like to say as a last sentence – that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is still ready for talks and joint search for a solution. I hope that Hope Kolundji will do what she said about "Madjar So" on October 30th, means that we will begin the talks and that the privatisation processes will be hitched by the end of those talks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9751	Thank you. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras, then Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9752	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, about two weeks ago, I warned from this assembly speaker that threats from the company 'Delta' are coming, I speak in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, which are directed at state authorities, politicians, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Competition Protection Commission. No one responded. I have to ask you a question, Mr. President, and the question was addressed to the prime minister of this government -- who founded the Anti-Corruption Council. Has Mrs Baraq sat down with her company and set up the council or the Anti-Corruption Council established by the government and the state authorities of this country to work in the citizens' interest. And when they work in the interest of citizens and when they say that one company has a monopoly on our market, there are threats coming from that company, and everybody is quiet -- shut up the prime minister, shut up the president, silence the political parties and try to intimidate the citizens? Then what's going on? Two or three days later, Mr. Jocicu, BIA chief Mr. Bulatovic, organizes the BIA anniversary reception and who is one of the most important guests – of course, Mr. Miskovic. What a signal to the citizens, what a signal to the Anti-Corruption Council, what a signal to the politicians -- I'm with them, don't threaten me, and there's nothing you can do about it. I think it's completely wrong. What's the big deal about these threats from Delta Company? Because someone dared, in their opinion, to tell the truth – that a company is trying to master our lives? Minister Milosavljevic says - no, no, there was no monopoly. Minister Bubalo says there's no monopoly. Deputy Prime Minister Djelic is holding the "Delta" company on TV, which is what we learned through information funds. What kind of message is that to the citizens? Citizens shut up, politicians shut up. Mrs. Barac - shut up! We'll sue you! Who's the one representing the Delta Company? It is the lawyer Draganic, who is head of the resolution committee on the legal issues of the DS. What kind of signal is that to citizens and politicians? Mr. Minister, I would only take this opportunity to ask you one more thing. It's nice of you to say you're going to question all the allegations, but you haven't told us the deadline until when. I would ask you, if you can, to say from this assembly address and from us MPs and citizens to what time you will examine it and when we will receive information – about what we talked about on the board before.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9753	Thank you. Here, there is the word Minister Jocic - answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9754	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9755	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic and then Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9756	Mr. President, first of all, one question I'm asking you to answer. Under the Law on the Budgetary System, in the chapter on the budget calendar, Article 14 paragraph 1 of the 9th indent states that it is the government's obligation to adopt a draft budget by 1 November, to deliver it to the National Assembly, that the Assembly adopts the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 15 December. You owe me an answer to the question – did the Government send you a draft budget for 2008 until 1 November, when it was due under the Budgetary System Act? Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform the public about my conscience and the conscience of the MPs of the SRS, and also because of yours, you MPs of the regime today refused to put into the agenda any discussion of the current situation in Republika Srpska and the adoption of an act that would enable the Republic of Serbia to fulfil its obligations under the Dayton Agreement, to support the competent authorities of Republika Srpska in the fight to preserve Republika Srpska and to fight for full compliance with the Dayton Agreement. I would remind you that the current developments in Republika Srpska have been addressed by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and the National Assembly has disobeyed the proposal of a large group of MPs to discuss this here and to bring here an act that is mandatory – an act calling for respect for international law, respect for international obligations, especially respect for obligations under the Dayton Peace Agreement, as we are calling for this respect for international law, the commitments of the Security Council in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you, is it morally not to protect the Republic of Serbia and to require that the Republic of Serbia be protected from the same people or from the same institutions that decide on our lives. I repeat, because of my conscience alone, it is not easy for me to watch Republika Srpska disappear, there are more important jobs for you, and these more important deals are agreements that were concluded in 2006, so some relate to the state of Serbia-Montenegro. This is more important to you right now than the situation in Republika Srpska, and it is much more important to you than what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, since I do not see you asking too much of the State Negotiation Team to report here, and I hear in the media that the final part of the negotiations is under way. And as for these stories about the MUP, the Delta Company, as I recall, Mr. Jovanovic, you put forward the extra-profit bill in due time, determined the business of the Delta Company, how much extra-profit of the Delta company was established at the time you were in power, like a bear flea. There, it was an extra-profit company called Delta. So, if someone's talking about Delta, Mr. Jovanovic, you have no rights, because in your hands there was a knife and a cake, until the moment you were in power, it was a model company, and now that America's on its way to destroy one Serbian company, it's on the punch and Delta. I would like to open a debate in the Serbian Parliament on the Delta Company and have everyone say what they think. You tell us what you found when you questioned the business of the company Delta and whether the company "Delta" paid one of you some extra profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9757	To give you an answer to the question – the government of the Republic of Serbia did not adopt and send the Assembly into the budget procedure, although it was required by the deadlines provided for by the Budget System Act. I call on the government to be effective and to do so as soon as possible, as we have previously had notices that other laws that the Government is obliged to respect, to send, under the Constitutional Law, and to be found before the MPs. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: I want to say that I am not satisfied because I have the right to do so. ) If you are not satisfied with my answer, it is fine, we have discussed this before, I will give you another breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic appeared and then Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I'm a little embarrassed that at this point, this idyllic situation in your society, which has long been divided into "truts and drones", that at this point "truts and queens" have that common flight, because it seems, "mothers" have stopped being a dork, but still, I have some things to distract you, counting on you to break off with double arches. In fact, it has been approaching for a month that the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure have been harshly violated in the Belgrade City Assembly. You know how many times we intervened in the Serbian Parliament, to get things in order. It is interesting, when it comes to other cases, that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government reacts very effectively, which is also the goal of each ministry reacting in a shorter period, as the minister of police now said he would give an answer as soon as possible, and this shortest deadline does not mean until the end of the term. Namely, in the event of the replacement of the president of Knic municipality, who was on maternity leave, the Ministry of Local Self-Government reacted immediately and annuled Council member SO Knic's decision. When it comes to Belgrade, such reactions, absolutely, no. We have turned our attention and expected you to be such a harsh violation of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the City of Belgrade Assembly, to correct. But you're trying to get through time, sort of put it into another plan and accept the final act. Given that you are expected here, in this idyllic situation, you will now work day and night and so forth and try to provide yourself with that free space in the Serbian Parliament. Do not put yourself in a position to be put to rest by the Serbian Parliament because of your abuse and because certain ministries, and in this case, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is not doing their job, or it does not inform us what has so far made the matter a matter of the Council of Belgrade's decision. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. President, to request information from the minister and to see how far they've come on this plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9759	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vjerica Radeta, then Laslo Varga, and Vladan Batic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras and Tomislav Nikolic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 85, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly reads: ''The President of the National Assembly shall set voting days after the debate on all points of the agenda. ''On the basis of this article, let's get back to the previous week of this House's work. I remind the People's MPs that my colleague Alexander Marton, I apologize, if someone else is, but I think I've remembered correctly, reported by the Rules of Procedure on October 30th and made his findings that the Assembly will not work on October 31st for the glory of Saint Luke, and that it will work on November 1st and November 2nd, November 1st is the Catholic holiday "All Saints", and November 2nd is "The Day of the Dead". That's when you said, Mr. President, that the Assembly would work on October 31st, November 1st and November 2nd. So on October 31st, the congregation worked. You were not in the position of the chairman before the end of working hours and at the end of working hours, without any explanation, we are told – we are finishing today's work, and the president will subsequently schedule a voting day. Such a possibility, Mr. Dulic, does not exist in the Rules of Procedure. At least we expected from you. Yes, today before the start of the vote, you explained that you had to suspend Parliament's work indefinitely, until the 'trouble and queen' agreed on some of the problems of calling the elections. In the meantime, we've heard you call the election several times, so we've also heard Boris Tadic's expert legal team say elections can be discussed without new laws. You were obviously okay with it at the time, and in the meantime, there was some kind of deal, some night, because you guys usually negotiate at night, at some kind of vampire meeting. You agreed that this would not be the case, and then yesterday you were informing the MPs, or services, that you decided to schedule today's voting day. Meanwhile, Mr. Dulic, you've been making statements these five days that Parliament hasn't done, that we've got day and night work waiting for us, that the blood work is waiting for us, that Parliament is going to work, I don't know how much, but, Mr. Dulic, if we really do have such work, which I don't doubt, because this Parliament has what to do, and you heard, we don't have a draft budget, we don't have draft election laws, we don't have laws that regulate the work of the president. It is true that we have something to do, but I suggest to you, Mr. Dulic, that you no longer listen when Tadic, from across the street, tells you that he's angry with Kostunica, so that Parliament doesn't work until the two of them are at peace. Your role is completely different. I told you, and on Wednesday, if you can't lead this parliament, thank Sonja Licht and Boris Tadic and let us choose someone who knows and who is willing to say even Boris Tadic – well, Boris, you can't do that because you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9761	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Laslo Varga, then Vladan Batic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9762	Mr. President, first of all, I would like to correct Mrs. Radeta, namely, I asked the President of the Assembly not to work Thursday and Friday because of our holidays. The congregation did not work, of course, not because of our holidays, but because the ruling majority obstructed the work of the National Assembly. By the way, I reported in accordance with Articles 90 and 91. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 5, Article 90 – “When determining the agenda, the National Assembly decides, in the next order, on proposals”, and then it is stated. According to Article 1(1), Article 91 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure – "The proposed changes and additions to the agenda are subject to a search in which they can only take part: the Proposer for a change of agenda" etc. "Participation in the search can take as long as three minutes. '" Mr. President, you asked Mrs. Nada Kolundji, president of your DS Parliament Club, if she wanted a word and whether she wanted to explain her proposal to join the agenda points. The other MPs did not ask if they wanted to explain the proposal to expand the agenda. Why in this way, Mr. President, have you discriminated against individual Members of the People, as well as us MPs of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians? Now I'd like to, in accordance with Article 226, just to supplement Mr. Pastor. In this conversation on the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting, Mrs Nada Kolundžija said that DS is ready to support the amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting and Exclusion of Media which broadcast the programme in the languages of national minorities from mandatory privatisation, only its problem is that DS does not have a majority for it. We have also said that it is necessary to put this amendment and supplementation of the Law on the agenda and that we are sure that we will provide the majority of the assembly to vote on the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law. Mrs. Kolundjia, I want to inform you again that the majority exists, so your coalition partners would be willing to propose amendments to the Broadcasting Law. There's a problem with you. Namely, you don't want it. This way I ask you a question – why are you acting so hypocritically this way and when you will once cease to view members of national minorities as a potential electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9763	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladan Batic, according to the Business, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9764	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, Article 226. Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking for an explanation from the president, from the prime minister and the finance minister. The question is this: is it normal that in a situation where a company, such as Delta, is in conflict with the Anti-Corruption Council, with the Anti-Monopoly Commission, with the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Deputy Prime Minister opens this glamorous spectacle in the Delta City?- I'm sorry. I know that Mr. Djelic, probably because of the justified prevention of his partner, Sinisha Stojic, was unable to open his company, but I still don't think that's right. Why did I mention the president, for the simple reason he and the president of the DS. It has already been mentioned, Mr. Goran Draganic is chairman of the DS Committee on Legal Affairs. Today, he announces criminal charges and charges against Mrs. Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council. I am looking for an explanation, is the Council for Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the DS has a majority or someone else has a majority in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Maybe some company? So it's extremely immoral, because everyone's watching and everyone's watching. Otherwise, the government of Serbia's plane last month, October, spent more than the Council's budget to fight corruption in a year. So, a question for the finance minister -- is capital gains tax paid in the sale of Delta Bank to the Bank "Intect", when and how much? I ask this because of the next question – where did the money go by selling the Bank of Intez, to some bank here, or perhaps Cyprus, at the expense of Hemslad? The same firm that has a lot to do with that question he mentioned and asked Mr. Maras, purely for your information, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9765	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9766	Mr President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, a very important item of the agenda is ahead of us, and as an opposition, we have made a great deal of efforts to address visa relief and agreement, on readmission, as soon as we have conducted the debate in Parliament, among other things, we have pointed out the failure of the assembly administration that has ignored such important topics and ignored the deadlines that are binding. We don't want this debate to turn into a political fight with a single company today. Consider our questions exclusively as Parliament's political commitment, not even as any opposition party to society. The Anti-Corruption Council was founded by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the government's institution and the government's body. The Competitiveness Protection Commission was founded by this parliament. The Anti-Corruption Council and the Commission have reached very clear conclusions. These conclusions are based on the facts that these two institutions have come to. Those facts are in conflict with the facts quoted by the company Delta. This isn't about witch hunting. This is about protecting public interest. This public interest obliges us, as representatives of the opposition, and the parliamentary majority, which is the government, to take very clear principled views – the policy and business relationship in Serbia, the role of business or economy and policy in the development of our society and defining the rules of conduct. If the vice-president of your government, Mr. Jocic, verifies this company at the same time that two government institutions, very important, strongly criticise this same company, we must as an opposition ask you a question – what is the government's policy? If you, as police minister, had answered the questions that we had asked you earlier, maybe the government policy would have been more concrete. I don't want to accuse you of avoiding the answers to those questions, because I know that you answered one letter, which was sent to you in July of the month, in which it was very clear about the abuses of the company's owners. I'm not going to abuse this pay phone and say anything else, but I'm sure you know very well what I mean. As far as the objections to the SRS are concerned, the Extraprofit Act has been passed by the parliamentary majority, whose boss I was here in the Assembly and behind this law today I stand. If you had any objections to the tax base defined as mandatory for the Delta Company, then you should have made that statement. Today I am talking about the monopoly that the company built in Serbia in the last two and a half years, not until 2003, but in 2005 and 2006. We are talking about a problem which and as far as the citizens of this country are concerned, regardless of their political belongings. We need to clear this up. We will stand, as a party, behind the president of the Anti-Corruption Council, because we believe that the fight against corruption at the moment is one of the most important obligations of our country's political system. A debate on Saturday found that Serbia has not changed much in the past five years. The debate was also attended by the finance minister and Deputy Prime Minister, as well as by the economy minister. We insist, not today, we want to discuss visas and readmission, but to launch a reasoned debate in Parliament that will put everything in place: business returns to business and politics to politicians. What's happening now is, in fact, evidence of the atrophy of a system in which no institution exists anymore. Mr. Albianic, thank you for the fact that you left me a minute longer. I won't answer on this issue anymore, but in a very clear way, I am expressing our political position. We will defend and protect the Anti-Corruption Council, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, President of the Council Verica Barac. And we have no idea that we're retreating to the will of a man who thinks he's more important than anyone else in this country because his wallet is full! Some values in Serbia cannot be paid for money. If this government has no power to protect that public interest, we will protect that interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9767	The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9768	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the answer you gave to my question, or the time you said you were going to do the job that is ahead of you, I can't understand, for the simple reason that "as soon as possible" can be widely interpreted. For someone, the shortest time is eight or nine months, how long you've been looking for people who tried to kill journalist "Time" Dejan Anastasia. I'd like a more precise answer. No problem at all if you say 30 days, that's correct, but it's important that we know what the deadline is, when we get the answer, that we know what you did on the questions we asked you. I should like to point out once again that these threats coming from the President of the Delta Company to the Anti-Corruption Council and the Competition Protection Commission take very seriously, and we find it tragic that no one from the ruling coalition, I don't just mean MPs and MPs' clubs, I think of you, but also, no one from the authorities themselves stands in defense of those they themselves founded. So, the government set up a Council, the Commission was founded by Parliament. We must stand in their protection, primarily because of the citizens themselves. Citizens are aware that there is a monopoly in this country. Wherever they turn, they see a chain from Delta, they see Maxie, Tempo, and so on. They are aware that they pay the most expensive products not only in the environment, but in much of Europe, many products in Serbia are more expensive than in other countries. We've already mentioned what companies they are, so we don't advertise them. We have recently seen that the milk in Serbia is far more expensive than in Montenegro, and that milk produced in Serbia. Everybody's quiet about it. I think that's very problematic. Unfortunately, the gentleman who mentioned it earlier, at the beginning of 2000 when an extraprofit was being made in this country, is not present in the O.R., but I have to tell you why the company "Delta" paid for a relatively small extraprofit. Because most of the traffic they were running wasn't legal. The Delta Company, as I was saying earlier, we mentioned that on the Security Committee, we were involved in cigarette smuggling. The company Delta, during the biggest crisis in this country, did not pay customs on imports. That's why Delta has big capital, and she didn't pay extra profit, because her traffic wasn't in legal flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9769	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, then Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing that Cedomir Jovanovic calls the SRS and honours the SRS that she had opportunities, at the time he was the head of the DOS, if he had any valid reasons, he should have brought it up then. Do you remember, you, Mr Jovanovic, and you, gentlemen MPs, when the SRS, for example, applied for a vote of no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Constitutional law, if 20 MPs ask to question confidence in the government, has resolved Cedomir Jovanovic in the simplest way. He went out and found an explanation that would remain in the annals: "You didn't vote for the government, therefore, you have no right to ask a question of trust with the government." You're telling us here about the company "Delta", about Miskovic or any company or tycoon, and as I recall, Mr Jovanovic, some who kidnapped this Miskovic, you did everything you could to make it easier for them to stay where they were staying, not only to make their stay easier, but also to go out without trial, without processing, which would be normal to do under the law. You mention some celebrations here and this poor Djelic, who opened the company, doesn't matter, and you forget, gentlemen, when Goran Svilanovic opened the Mercator. You're forgetting that. At the time, his wife was the sales manager, with 1,500 marks. I sincerely invited him, since at the time, like Mrs. Krustanovic, I had some gigs at the Djeram market, though, I was selling eggs to help me sell, too, so he could open those gigs. However, it seems that the compensation was not appropriate, because I wanted it in nature, a couple of charts, to give. I have to tell you that you've done everything, prepared the ground for the state of Serbia to be the way it is. You think now that you're suggesting that the citizens of Serbia forget 2001, 2002 and 2003, or 2003, they told you what they had to say. Therefore, gentlemen, remember what you did while you were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9771	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, then Verica Radeta, then Zoran Krasic, then Srdjan Sajn, then Vladan Batic. Please, let's get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9772	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Articles 225 and 226, as regards the answers to the question of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, the head of the LDP parliamentary group and Mr. Maras, given by the National Assembly President, Mr. Dulic, and Mr. Interior Minister. I'm sorry Mr. Dulic isn't here to explain what he said. First of all, about what he said and the answer that Mr. Dulic gave. It concerns election issues, in particular, Article 3. Constitutional law, i.e. system laws, which according to some interpretations are contitio sine qua non (unconvinced condition) of the presidential election. Such a short time to pass such laws is simply unserious. What if, by some other interpretations, elections can be held without those laws. In fact, there are such interpretations. Then the question arises, who has an interpretative role, especially when the Constitution, like our Constitution, is an antinomic. What does legal science say about that? Science says that it should be the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court does not have one, and in the draft constitutional law, which we have received, the interpretative role of the Constitutional Court is not envisaged at all, nor, given the structure and the content of that law, it can be changed by amendments. As for the answer, which we received from Minister Jocic, and as far as deadlines are concerned, I would just add that, apparently, the deadlines are the most painful issue of this government, not even in the draft laws, or proposals of laws that have both procedural and legal attributes, deadlines where it was necessary to be envisaged are not foreseen. This also concerns what Mr. Minister said, that some issues will be resolved as soon as possible. Will this be a feature of the laws that we need to pass, which have procedural and legal attributes, as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9773	Thank you. The People's Messenger Verica Radet has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9774	Mr. Albianic, I am surprised by your invitation to the MPs to work on the agenda. I don't know when you'll learn, that the work of Parliament is also the work of Parliament, first. And only when he comes out after the Rules of Procedure, then that's okay. Secondly, Mr. Albianic, did you warn Mr. Dulic on Thursday and Friday to work on the agenda? Because we don't have an explanation why Parliament hasn't worked for two days. Why is Mr. Dulic, contrary to Article 104? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, in the most cruel way possible hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, when it showed public citizens of Serbia that the National Toys Assembly is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Dulic was obliged to answer to the MPs, to all who have been answering the Rules of Procedure so far, he has not answered anyone's question, and I see that you are following him, and that is why I want to do so by article 100, actually, by this basis, I have come to remind you of the third position that he says: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation after that." And "after that" refers to the previous position that speaks about when the MP is talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure in what way he does-- by quoting the Rules of Procedure, Reasons, etc. You act, Mr. Albianic, both you and Mr. Dulic, like, you don't care, in that folk's, "dogs bark, caravans pass" and you experience the work of Parliament. It does not occur to you to give serious answers to the Messengers of the people, and then you expect the Messengers of the people to listen to your call. Let us work in the agenda. Is there a budget proposal on the agenda?- I'm sorry. So let's work on the agenda, because it's our obligation under the Constitution, by law, by the Rules of Procedure. Are the election laws on the agenda? Of course, none of it's on the agenda. We do not think that what is on the agenda should not be found on the agenda of this House, but you would have to, Mr Albianic, respect what is our obligation under the Constitutional Law. The position of Article 4 100 – ''If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. '"Mr. Dulic, apparently, can't understand this at all. I've tried to explain it more than once, here, now I'm trying to explain it to you. The Parliament's vote without a search does not mean that the MP should not explain from this place that he is not satisfied with the president's or current chairman's response and that he is not satisfied with what he is saying. So, Mr. Albianic, I warn you that since you've been sitting here today to change Mr. Dulic, you've been in violation of Article 100(3) and Article 4. Since I know what your answer will be, I am telling you in advance that I am not satisfied with the answer and that I am asking that the Assembly in the voting day declare this injury, or these injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9775	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Srdjan Sajn. You're right, Mrs. Radeta, for a suggestion, and a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been broken will be made aware of that. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9776	Mr. Albianic, these are these two members of our 225th and 226th Rules of Procedure. Before I point out why I need an explanation from Vojislav Kostunica, Mr. Jocic, and you could help him when he writes that explanation. There's a lot of elements from your portfolio, but before I look back on it, I'd just like to draw attention to one detail, because there's a lie here. The law on extra profit tax was passed by you. I shot him down in the Constitutional Court and the Federal Constitutional Court. Even then he was the president of the Constitutional Court, Momcilo Grubač, and one of the judges of the Constitutional Court, who was not allowed to attend that session, was this Aleksandar Simic. Of the 13 decrees, seven fell to you. However, for 11 more, the Constitutional Court said they were unconstitutional, but they had no quorum, or they split up during the vote, so it was 6:6. As for the illegal and unconstitutional application of this law, I will only list to you who these are and who are the characters who participated: Slobodan Lalović, Mladjan Dinkic, Aleksandar Radović, Djelic, Djindjic, Vuk Obradović and not to go any further. And who successfully defended your Law before the Federal Constitutional Court: Dragor Hiber, Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic, some people from the income administration and the Ministry of Finance and, behold, a wonderful miracle, Bojan Pajtic. They defended so well that your Constitutional Court had to bring down that law of yours. When you talk about who and who he taxed, then take care of that dust and that ash, keep it only on you. Now, Mr. Jocic, that's why I called. It is very good that in our Rules of Procedure there is this institute that is defined by Articles 225 and 226. It allows us to point out between the two sessions of the National Assembly to the public and the government what is happening in the executive government. This example, now to be mentioned, concerns the Ministry of Defense, Mr. Sutanovac and his crew. On November 2nd, a few days ago, Colonel Dragan Krsmanovic was appointed. He's the Chief of Military Archives. You see how important this Military Archives is. In that hierarchy, we have the Ministry of Defense, the Department of Defence, the Institute of Strategic Research, and we have the Military Archives. A civilian has come to the post of Chief Military Archives. So far, it's never happened in history. A certain Milan Terzic came, otherwise repeatedly punished. Let me tell you, Mr. Jocic, because of the national hatred that Mr. Sutanovac has spread with his people, Mr. Jan Marchek is removed from the post of director of the Institute because he is Slovak and loves Serbia. Do you know who's set up? A DS man who boasts that he hates Serbia, that he is disgusted by uniforms and Serbian officers. His name is Bashara Michaelo. Mr. Jocic, I think you can get involved in this business a little bit. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) ) Mr. Albianic supports me, as you might have noticed. I never say anything that's not true. You're safe, Hope, into it. Get out of that place, 'cause there's waterways. Everyone who sat in your seat left very quickly. (Chairman: Mr. Krassic, please. Look where Chada is, now, there. Watch where Paytich is. When you move out of that place, I've told you more than once, there's some cosmic radiation, there's all the sloping when they sit down. Did you hear Chad say what he said -- you didn't vote for the government, you can't vote for the government's trust. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) ) Move to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9777	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held today on 5 November, at 17.00 p.m., at the Blue Salon. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Sajn, and then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9778	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, but related to the agenda point. I would especially like the Minister, Mr. Jocic, to ask for something, and this is about the next one. The question of reading is the ministerial issue of a couple of excellence. The Roma party believes Serbia is not ready to sign a readmission agreement, for the simple reason that Serbia is not ready to accept around 100,000 citizens in EU countries who are due to return to Serbia's territory. The Roma Party believes that we cannot talk responsibly today about accepting these people. The question I want to make to Mr. Jocic, when he has his presentation, is this: have his colleagues from the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Policy helped him enough, from the Ministry of Justice, and has the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, helped him enough? If we don't have a good answer to all these questions about the readmission issue, I'm afraid we're talking about the fate of 100,000 people as a legal-technical issue; it's important, as it is said in this agreement, that we pack these people up in planes, bring them here to the airport, let them walk around Serbia, and then nobody takes responsibility for them. I'm saying this, for the simple reason that signing a readmission contract, in the present situation, is actually about signing imports of a social bomb for Serbia. Serbia can deal with these problems and with these socially endangered categories that already exist in Serbia. I don't know how Serbia will take care of people who come from the reading. That is why I expect an answer in the opening statement, so that all MPs here can make good decisions on the matter. However, the position of the Roma party is clear. Serbia cannot sign such a readmission agreement. Serbia has not been ready to integrate these people into Serbian society since 1 January. Serbia can't have those children born 15 years ago in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, who will come here with an unknown Serbian language, this economy, this society, to integrate them. Only one comment on a fellow Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, who said – I fear that the Roma media will experience the same fate, because certain Roma media in the languages of Roma in Vojvodina have programmes, in Subotica, in Kovacica and elsewhere, too, I support the initiative that this issue should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9779	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask for an explanation. On 11 October from this pay phone, I pointed to a certain torture, discomfort, problems that a man named Milivove Andrić and a council member in SO Loznica, and he has suffered in the last few years, robbery, beating, arson, because he has discovered some connections between police and auto-mafia, because he has pointed out, even publicly, some problems and abuses at the level of the password police, because even some people at the top of the police have announced some of his knowledge of the movement of some people who are in one known case, one of the most famous in this country, convicted of criminal prison sentences, and are on the run. I don't know if it's a correlation. However, a new great inconvenience has occurred to a man. Two explosive devices were dropped on October 29th, so I would ask you for an explanation or notice – what will be done to the team about, to protect its integrity, because it is an opposition at the level of the Municipality of Loznica, I don't know if it has anything to do with it. I would also like to ask for the following explanation, in accordance with the provisions of Article 226. As the entire public is aware of in the Ovcar case, and I don't know if it's in the competence of the MUP, there's a procedure being conducted and some persons have been charged, even convicted, not by judicial verdicts or released in The Hague tribunal. It's also being conducted here before the War Crimes Court, against those who were perpetrators or executioners at the Sheepdogs. An explanation and notification, Mr. Minister, I ask of you, if it is in the jurisdiction of the MUP, one of the most important roles of the one who was taken to the hospital in Vukovar on the night or on November 20, 1991, was the selection of the wounded and those he said were not for the hospital, they were taken that night to the "Ovcaru" and shot. I fear some of these people who have decided today are headed by some significant institutions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9781	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9782	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Art. 225 and 226. The citizens are aware of what we're talking about here today. LDP MPs talk about the haughtiness and the threat of one company to the authorities established by the state. On the other hand, MPs from each other's parliamentary groups are trying to turn that story into personal, trying to twist that story. Unfortunately, I have to mention Mr. Todorovic, who just mentioned 2001 and 2002, brought up some things that aren't exactly like that. One, we wish we were in a situation like we were in 2001 and 2002. Unfortunately, we haven't, but you've told one lie, Mr. Todorovic, and that's when the ground was prepared for what's happening today, that is, for this moment. Unfortunately, I have to remind you it's in the '90s. a year of prepared terrain for all of this, which is why Delta has a monopoly like this now. I'll do it again, so they traded cigarettes in an unauthorized way, smuggled cigarettes, Delta Company, or Delta Bank. Also, they didn't pay for the big extra profit, for the simple reason that their traffic wasn't managed legally. That's why the company has big assets and now it's in a monopoly situation. The citizens are suffering because of that monopoly. Please, just, as long as we're talking, let's talk about who it is. So, never before have tycoons had their own country. Since 2004, tycoons have their own state, tycoons have managed almost every state body in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9783	The word comes from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9784	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think it is a good thing that two policies have crystallised in this debate and that it is natural that these policies form opposition parties. I don't think there's any dilemma in Serbia when it comes to the character of the LDP or the SRS. People know what this is about. Voters who vote for LDP or the SRS know what they're voting for. What's the problem, actually, is ignoring our parliamentary right that we use not because it's our personal need or not because it's only our personal need, but because it's our obligation. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, I have twice called on members of 225 and 226. These members and you are bound to answer the questions we asked. What will the Serbian government do and what will be the response of the Serbian government to this abnormal situation in which one government body, head of the legal committee, the ruling coalition party, has the majority in the government, is conducting proceedings against the government's body. Mr. Chairman, a question for you, what will the Serbian Parliament do to protect the institution it has established, and I am talking about the Anti-Monopolitan Commission. This, least important in this debate, what we think of each other, as I said, I don't think there's any dilemma about the character of the LDP or the SRS, and there's no doubt or mistrust when people talk about us. That's why I think the surplus is all that's been used as an argument devoting this initiative of ours. If I am the worst MP in this House, then the problem for Parliament is that the worst in Parliament raises issues that have so much public importance, and which deal with public interest. I think we owe so much to this society – the market economy, clear rules, the depoliticalization of businesses, the demonopolization of the economy, the competition. But in order to establish such a system of values, we first need to formulate the rules to reach that system. No single person can, no company can, no party can, no institution in this country has a monopoly on life. Those who think they have the right to do so must be clearly sanctioned. I ask of you, Mr. Jocic, there is a lot of difference between us, I am not at all personal, I ask you to answer me what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do to protect its body, its body, its anti-corruption council. I ask you, Mr President, to tell me when you will launch a debate in Parliament and protect the body you have formed, because if Parliament and the Government are not behind the Council on the fight against corruption and the anti-monopoly commission, then these people are, in fact, representing their personal interests, and that is not so and that is not true. They took that responsibility because one of them asked them to. As MPs, we have asked them to do so and we are obliged to protect this public interest that they are protecting at this time, lonely and left behind by the institutions that created them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9785	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Regular meetings on agenda items shall be held by Members of Parliament, and shall not be held by the chairman. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9786	Articles 225 and 226. Mr. Jocic, I think your Ministry has to check the apartment in Nis, write down Nicole Tesla Square 31/6, Lamela 18, second floor, apartment no. Six. It'll be in a stenogram. Why is this address important? This address is important as a secret bunker where Dusan Petrovic and Bosko Ristic meet. Mr. Albian, count this laugh at their time, when they come out to talk, not in my day. Now you'll understand why it's very important. Mr. Jocicu, Dusan Petrovic abused the office of justice minister and demanded of the person who is currently president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and just to remind you, when this lady was elected Serbian Supreme Court President, Milan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Dusan Petrovic claimed, even so far away, that she did not meet the conditions, that at one point I doubted whether she had even graduated from law school, and I see that they were, in some ways, right. It is recently, and you have had the opportunity to hear the public comment, the public – B92, Dusan Petrovic, something that does not exist. They comment on a solution and a verdict that no one has seen, but which is expected to be passed on their orders to clear up some things at the Municipal and District Court in Nis. And I know, Mr. Jocic, that you know very well what this is about, because it has been delegated jurisdiction in one dispute over the crimes of a judge, the former President of the Municipal Court of Nis, the Court of Justice in Piroth, so there has been a change in the prosecution, so the prosecution has dropped the prosecution's prosecution and now needs to be cleared up in the Low Court so Mr. Ristic can regain that position he had at the time of DOS in power. I see, some have bent their heads because they know very well what Bosko Ristic was doing, with Zoran Zivkovic, in the Niško judiciary. Look, miracles, they found some victim, started some law enforcement request that was impossible, only to stain the President of the District and Municipal Court in Nis, so that Mr. Ristic would improve his useful positions that had nothing to do with the DS, but had to do with criminal proceedings against the former president of the court, a woman, because if she did not provide protection, she would talk about all the court proceedings. I ask and ask for an explanation from Mr. Kostunica, and you help him, as it is possible for a minister of justice to abuse his post in such a way as to comment on something that does not exist. By the way, pay attention to Judge Novic Pekovic and what he was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9787	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9788	Mr. Albianic, when I speak, it's better to listen a little, you can learn something. What Novica Pekovic was doing in Vranja and Nis in the judiciary, and how he knew he would be in charge of the case at the request of legal protection. How is it possible that TV Sarajevo, the day before the search, knew what the decision would be? In the next announcement, I will address you and explain the role of journalist Zanfirovic and Bernard Kušner.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9789	The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, so we end the Rules of Procedure and go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9790	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 225 of the first position and Article 226, if there is a need, I can read it, because of the chairman, I should read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9791	There's no need, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9792	Since I see that he is constantly trying to distract the MPs that they can no longer speak to the Rules of Procedure, that, Mr. Albian, you cannot lift us, not even to this future Rules of Procedure. What do I want to talk about? In the municipality of Piroth, I was there this weekend, I received data and documentation from the citizens of the village of Temska, the solution of the municipal commission, according to the Law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages to use, returned the appropriate area of pasture, forests, fields, meadows, infertile land, ponds, everything that this law allowed. I remind everyone that this law lasted for 10 years, almost all municipalities have made solutions to the return of mornings and pastures to villages for use. I remind this because in that last meeting of former Agriculture Minister Ivana Dulic, she announced the law as an eighth wonder, as if no one had ever heard of the law. And I repeat that this law has long ceased to apply, because all municipalities at that time acted according to the law, as did the municipality of Piroth through its commission which it formed, and to the local community, or the village of Temska, a little more than 182 hectares of pasture and 27.25 hectares of forest. In the mornings and pastures, I also want to remind the MPs, who were probably not able to meet this law, personally in the municipality of Zemun I applied this law and I know perfectly all the details, so the mornings and pastures return to the villages for use and no one can change their purpose anymore, no one can sell them, no one can give them any way, but must be used for the needs of the village to which they are returned. So, not the local community, literally the law regulated it, returning the village to use. What happened? Dragan Gilas was visiting Pirot, and he liked the forest above the village of Temska, nearly 27.5 hectares, and he ordered leadership, agreed with the leadership of the municipality of Piroth, little what he stole from Belgrade, little business space and villas, but threw his eye at the forest in Piroth and ordered that the forest be sold to the forest land. So it's totally against the law. First, there's no way to sell. Secondly, that sale has already started, no one knows at any price, no public ad, no tender. Of course, I repeat again, not with tenders, not with ads, that forest cannot be sold, it belongs to the village of Temska in the municipality of Pirot. That Dragan Djilas at all bells and every time he appears in the media threatens Velija Ilic, is trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia what Velija Ilic is responsible for, it is okay, it should work. But, Mr. Jocic, you should also deal with Dragan Gilas, because what he's doing is crime and work first for you, after the prosecutor, for the judges and how it's already going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9793	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9794	Mr. Albianic, same member. Mr. Jocic, since you're the only government official here right now, I need to ask you a question and get some explanation, we MPs. While Vuk Draskovic was foreign minister several times he and Boris Tadic were in places where they signed some agreements with the NATO Pact, and insight into the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and that messenger until he was the minister we found that these agreements had been published. I am specifically warned that this is an agreement, a series of agreements under some SOF programme. I'm interested. What's this all about? Are these some secret agreements, so the public doesn't need to know? If they're secret, then the public doesn't need to know, so why did you torture us to watch it on TV and sign it? If they have already signed, it must be ratified, it has to be published, that the "officer" publishes it. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Jocic, I draw your attention to a phenomenon that will especially come to terms in a month, here, I tell you in advance when it will come to terms, and the criterion will be researching strategic marketing. When Strategic Marketing announces that the popularity of the Serbian Orthodox Church is below 50%, it will go the same way as VJ. Now I tell you in advance how this is done synchronisedly, so you check it out, so inform all the MPs and the public after I've informed you all in time. And I've been informing you about those Wahhabis two years before, and I've been informing you about those counties, here, and now, Mr. Jocic, to let you know and to distract you that you have a worm in the government. Yeah, yeah, a worm in the government. I know you think all worms are in the government, and I say they have one worm, I'm not saying everything. Mr. Jocicu, if you are not informed, there is a village of Samoljica on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality and there are some people, who pretend to be Wahhabi, making some means a mosque. But they're building a mosque on state land and in the morning. When the authorities of the state intervened at the Ministry, at Velimir Ilic, it was said—shut up, don't say anything, it has to go like that. I didn't, I don't know who did it, but it would be good if you knew who did it. So without a building permit, there's something that irritates the local population of all ethnic groups, if you prefer that expression. Furthermore, Mr. Jocic, if I were, by any chance, in a situation like one man in 1999, to celebrate in the Gracanica monastery, and when he sat with Mr. Kouchner and drew his attention that those NATO pacts that are in Kosovo should be a little more objective – if you bombed us for doing something there, so you see those under your patronate are doing worse things towards Serbs, why don't you understand them a little bit? Mr. Kouchner made an incident, left the celebration and drew attention to that citizen of the Republic of Serbia, very important – you will see me and you Serbs will see you crawling in front of me. But this Mr. Kouchner has spread his network in Serbia. I'll just mention some names because I know you're well-known, and Mr. Albianic is well-known. One of these, protagonist of this policy, is called Mirko Djuric, a certain gentleman representing the interests of the Roman Catholic Church in Serbia, you can find him on Avali, enjoying, resting and recruiting in all order. The other is Mr. Michael Michael Michael, you know who he is. The third is one group that, he says, is on behalf of the Civil Union of Serbia and the fourth is Mr. Mirko Djordjevic, a self-called philosopher from the Cimanovac. Pay attention and take care of what I said, that in a day or a month it will be published in Strategic Marketing, and don't say you're not informed, that you're surprised. It's part of the destruction of all the institutions of this people, not more of the state, but of this people. You're responsible if you don't warn. Let this one go, this one doesn't know what responsibility is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9795	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, Mr. Todorovic, if something in order is problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9796	I appreciate that, Mr. Albian, I know you wouldn't do it with intent. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jovanovic is not here, but I will have to answer him – I do not share the MPs at all with the worst or the best. To me is the will of the citizens of God. We've come here with the votes of the citizens, and I've even spent a lot of time getting into a situation where that will is respected, that the electoral will of the citizens is not being abused in any way. As for that, Mr. Marash, that the tycoons existed before, that they existed in all regimes, that's absolutely true. But, Mr. Maras, there is the responsibility of those who were in power and who were obliged to do everything, if they had knowledge, that those who were outside the law, in an illegal manner or using privileges, managed to gain wealth in the economy of the law. Your party president has had these possibilities, practically unlimited since 2001. You don't have many new tycoons here. You have new rich people, those who came with DOS. One of them is Djelic, Dinkic and in turn. They're new. These old ones you mention, Miskovic and all in a row – why they didn't answer, if you think they were working in an illegal way, that's how they gained wealth, and I agree with that. But what you didn't do at the time when you could do it, but now you're calling for what this government is supposed to do at this point, if there's evidence for anyone that it has abused the position, that it's based on the benefits it has acquired from a certain fortune. As far as the SRS is concerned, not that we will not stand in the way, but we will do everything we can to help comply with the law and that all those who have misused the law, based on the law and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9797	The Republic has a National MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9798	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Todorovic, obviously we didn't get along very well. I tried to say that we, or LDP MPs, led the controversy in one direction. We tried to point out that the company, which we are talking about today, became the owner of more than half of this country after 2003, that the company, or its president, is in the Network campaign, which was run during the government from 2001 to 2003 and that it stopped. I am taking the opportunity to ask Minister Jocic, when it comes to the so-called Network action, which is why not all those in the Network action mentioned in the Network action, and one of them is the Delta Company. So that's what we're talking about, Mr. Todorovic. I tried to say we're all responsible, but it's not a responsibility to keep quiet. So that's why we're out now, which is why we've been going out lately, and we're talking about the situation where Serbia is, that's why the moss is in the hands of a man, and we see that wherever we turn. The silence that comes from the ruling coalition, in the end line from your ranks, means you won't say – hey, man, you can't threaten the organs established by this government and the Assembly. Ministers and vice-presidents of the government should not go and make praises about the company. That's what we're talking about. Then you went on a little personal, mentioning how Mr. Svilanovic was at the opening of the Mercator. Okay, but we're not talking about it. We're talking about "Merkator" being a trade chain, and "Delta" has a monopoly on this market, there's a difference. The difference is that the state authorities, i.e. the Government and its ministers are behind the company 'Delta', that is to say, support its work at the same time as the company threatens citizens, politicians, state authorities, the Council and the Commission, at the same time as the Head of State Security, that is, the Information Agency, Mr Bulatovic, organises a reception, and his main guest is Mr. Miskovic, two days after the threat, to show us – well, we are a force and you can't do anything about it. That's not what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9799	Thank you. We've reached the proposer's representative on the matter of the law. We move to the 1-3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON APPROVAL OF THE SERBIA AND THE EC ON THE EASY PROCESS FOR VIS, READMS AND SCG AND FRANCE ON THE RETURNING AND ACCOUNT OF THE LIC IN THE NEGULAR SITUATION (joint single search) pursuant to Article 140(2) and Article 149a of Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the ease of the procedure for issuing visas, - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, and - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol (points 1, 2 and 3 of the Agenda). We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. I would like to remind you, according to Article 149a, that, in agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda for points 1, 2 and 3, before the opening of a joint single search. Article 94(b) of CRR. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds, Democratic Party – one hour, 16 minutes, 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus – 22 minutes, 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 19 minutes, 12 seconds, MP group "Liberal Democratic Party" – 13 minutes, 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union of Albanians Presevo Valley – 7 minutes, 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM – 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Interior Minister Dragan Jocic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9800	Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs, you have three motions for laws ratifying agreements. The first is the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the ease of the procedure for issuing visas or visa waivers, as it is called. By reaching full liberalisation of the visa regime, the European Union Member State and the European Commission agreed in December 2005 to approach the process of facilitating the current, existing situation, or visa regime with each of the Western Balkan countries. At that time, in December 2005, visa relief negotiations were opened. Negotiations with the Republic of Serbia and the European Union began on 30 November 2006. Four negotiating rounds and numerous meetings were held, and the agreement ended in Brussels on 18 September this year. These negotiations, as well as the Visa Facilitation Agreement itself, represent, in fact, a step towards the complete abolition of visas for our citizens travelling to the countries of the European Union. I'll say very briefly about what the Agreement contains. The Facilitation Agreement concerns certain categories of citizens, the length of the visa, the price of the visa and the simplification and acceleration of procedures for certain categories of residents. First of all, it refers to business people, lawyers, doctors, journalists, scientists, students, artists, athletes, professional drivers, civil servants, representatives of religious and non-governmental organisations and other categories listed in the Agreement. For all of these categories, the number of documents that will have to be attached to obtaining the visa is significantly reduced and comes down to the number of documents proving only the status of a member of this category. In addition to the category of people, Serbian citizens, who are covered by visa relief, there are certain living situations that in themselves have a certain weight to obtain visa relief. These are the situations when it comes to treating, visiting military and civilian cemeteryes, attending funerals, visiting relatives and traveling, if they are realised through recognised tourist agencies. Also, this agreement allows for the possibility of issuing longer visas, so-called'multiple' visas. In the event that the time limit from the previously received visa is respected, the next visa may be obtained, i.e. it can be obtained within a longer period and even up to five years. The price of the visa remains the same, remains at the current level, which is 35 euros and includes free visas for pensioners and children under the age of six. The deadline for issuing visas will be 10 days, and in particular the emergency three days. In that sense, confirming this agreement will bring Serbia a step closer to the full visa waiver for our citizens travelling to the countries of the European Union. As far as the second agreement is concerned, and I stress that both the first and second agreements have been signed at the same time, and that is the readmission agreement, i.e. the full name of the agreement on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in those countries. The reasons for the adoption of this proposal, i.e. the adoption of this law, are the following – the fact that this agreement is ratified shows that Serbia is ready and open to conclude interstate readmission agreements with all open interested countries. The signing of this agreement with the European Union and its full implementation is one of the most important preconditions, as I said, and for the previous agreement, to be included in the White Schengen list. It is also the path to visa liberalisation and has been directly linked to the signing of this first agreement, i.e. by making it easier. The conclusion of this agreement creates the necessary normative assumptions for the full co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the European Community on the plan of organised, reciprocal and institutionalised return of persons in an irregular situation in the territory of the European Union countries. The agreement also accurately defines the readmission process, which is the type of data needed to apply for a readmission, evidence that determines the nationality of a person, i.e. that he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the deadlines in which readmission, costs and protection instruments are submitted to protect Serbia from certain types of readmission. It is precisely if a third-country person is to clarify this and resides in a European Union country, it will have to be proved that by the error of the Serbian state it has left its territory and has come to the territory of the European Union, or Member States. The process of returning citizens of the Republic of Serbia is carried out with full respect for the highest European standards in the field of protection of human rights and freedom of citizens. The implementation of the Readmission Agreement enables direct co-operation, above all, between our and foreign police authorities, which leads to various information and knowledge about persons in the background of requests for return, security information relating to the detection of persons being prosecuted in the Republic of Serbia, which is not available because of their stay abroad. There is no concern that since the adoption of this Agreement, that is, if the Assembly adopts this agreement, there will be a large inflow of persons, i.e. a request for a readmission, and this agreement is so well-conceived that it does not occur. Otherwise, as of 2003, around 17,900 people have been returned to Serbia so far. As for the third law - the law on readmission signed, or ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of France, with the accompanying Protocol, was signed and agreed in Paris on 25 April 2006, and after the signing of the Agreement and the Protocol, the state union ceased to exist and this became our obligation. In addition to becoming our obligation, this protocol agreement is also a kind of development of this framework readmission agreement. Given everything that's been said, I think the conditions have been met for the National Assembly to adopt these three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9801	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does anyone who singled out an opinion want a word? No, I don't. We have reached the representatives of the parliamentary groups. National MP Zarko Obradovic came to the floor. Please, no excitement, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to introduce you and the public of the Republic of Serbia that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was held on 1 November of the current year, starting at 12.00 hours, in Gracanica, Kosovo and Metohija, and the work of the Committee was attended by Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Slobodan Samardzic. It's all gone in the best order possible. There was great interest in the citizens who came, waited outside the House of Culture, and later they entered and asked a series of questions both to the members of the Committee and to the Minister himself. What is interesting is that the Committee did not have a quorum for work, for the simple reason that the work of the Committee was not attended by members of the DS Committee, G17 Plus, Mr Vladan Batic and Mr from New Serbia who justified his absence. It is also interesting that all members of the DS Committee, apart from Mr Milivojevic, and G17 plus, are people living in Kosovo and Metohija and what this problem should and how to take an interest. The agenda was next – Information from the Negotiating Team on the course of negotiations on the future status of AP Kosovo and Metohija, the National Investment Plan for AP Kosovo and Metohija and the point of various things. Most of all, the Committee said about how and to what extent the country of the Kosovo Serbs was sold, under which conditions they live and remain there. So the work of the Committee was not attended by DS and G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9803	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, then Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9804	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, today we have three draft laws on the agenda, which the government has proposed following an urgent procedure to be discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, it says that these laws by government are something that should absolutely be the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and be adopted. Namely, in an explanation of these laws, and whoever has read the reasoning of these laws will see them, as the government adopted them on October 4th of the current year, also mentions the deadlines until these laws are to be adopted, and it is also mentioned on October 15th 2007, and today it is November 5th. It is also mentioned on November 1st 2007, and today is November 5th, so one logical question arises, which is why we did not adopt these laws within a period that was optimal under the Government to be applied, because they have obviously had far-reaching consequences or some of these consequences are indicated by Mr. Minister in his opening statement. It must be said, and it absolutely stands as a sin of the ruling coalition, that in recent days we have been practically blocked, since Wednesday, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not work, because there was no majority, in this assembly, for the adoption of laws we had discussed several weeks earlier. We were bombed by different statements about the dates of the presidential election. Some members of the ruling coalition have proved to be far more important to talk about the presidential elections than the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to mention the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not saying this by accident. If the laws are passed by an urgent procedure, and they are said to be important, then there is something more important than these laws, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and we in the SPS, we can say that it is a good thing that an agreement has been reached that presidential elections should not be made in December of this year because of Kosovo and Metohija, but it is bad that only members of the ruling coalition participated in the talks, as the issue of some elections is not only a question of members of the ruling coalition. This is a matter of all parties represented in this Parliament, and in particular it is not a question of the implementation of the Constitutional Law, because the Constitutional Law is being or is not being implemented and not only can one election be taken as relevant and the others are being pushed under the carpet and, of course, counting on the support of all other parties when it comes to state issues. It is not good for Serbia that only members of the ruling coalition speak of the implementation of the Constitutional Law, it should be reminded that two-thirds of the MPs, all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, were also conditional on the adoption of the law on the implementation of the Constitution, and for God's sakes, things will be necessary for its change, and we will also see how things are, that is, the ruling coalition itself cannot decide on these important issues. So, it can be found tonight, black and white, that the ruling coalition, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we're not even consulted until the other day, but the ruling coalition is late to propose and adopt this legislation on visa relief and readmission, i.e. on solving a person in an inadequate situation. When it comes to the importance of laws that are at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia tonight, I must regret to conclude that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the assembly majority, did not adopt the proposals, or did not want to accept that, by an urgent procedure at this session of the National Assembly, it also considered, possibly and adopted, amendments and additions, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how important the laws. I do not dispute that the visa relief law is something that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need, but no one can convince me that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not the more important law on the additions of the Law on PIO. Namely, the Socialists suggested that the time-limit of a single amendment, which we normally submitted when we supported the previous government, that average pensions cannot fall below 60 percent of the average personal income, we proposed through this law, and today the Assembly has declared that there is no time limit on the validity of this part of the Law, or that there is no time limit, because we felt it was quite logical for pensioners, it is especially important that this part of the PIO law gets that new dimension, that there is no time limit, that pensions cannot fall below 60 percent of the average personal income. Already, these pensions are at 53 percent of the average personal income. We thought this was more important at this point than the law on the readmission and the visa regime, because the visa regime law, and you will see, is also said by Mr. Minister, only one number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You will admit, to the number of Serbian citizens who, by the rule and so far, have traveled, only the question of what has come to the requested travel documents, visas, may have come with much more effort. We also proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we felt that the urgent procedure should also be adopted and the amendment and addition of the VAT Act, which we asked to be abolished, and this is interesting to hear the majority of the assembly, VAT on food equipment, clothing, footwear and complete equipment for babies: diapers, wheelchairs, bearings, beds and the like. It would protect the family budget of families with more children and motivate young people to form families and plan offspring. I'm not saying this by accident. We socialists even a few months ago, when we talked about the budget, we suggested two options to cancel the baby VAT. At that time, the congregation’s majority ignored us. We've heard six different answers why he can't. Then, on behalf of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Mr. Patriarch Paul sent a letter to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government said he would accept it. Fellow Members, the government has pleaded to accept this, but this has not been applied in practice. Namely, the government's acceptance cannot be implemented until a law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is passed. We have proposed that this law be passed and, unfortunately, the majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia have shown their unwillingness to meet such a single request that, believe me, for many citizens of the Republic of Serbia is far more important than the visa relief law, especially more important than these two laws, on reading and resolving issues in an illegal situation. The SPS parliamentary group also proposed amendments and additions to the Broadcasting Law. A few fellow MPs came out here today and talked about the need to streamline the privatisation of local media, the media at local level. We Socialists have proposed a law proposing an extension of that deadline for another three years. Sadly, we did not come across the support of the congregation’s majority who otherwise declared that they would also meet that requirement on several occasions. You see, in practice, some other interests take precedence over what is the interest of local self-government. We also saw, for example, one of the colleagues here today mentioned Sombor, but also some other environments, who listened to news and news shows on Friday, could see, for example, from five local media outlets that were sold on Friday at the privatisation that three people who had nothing to do with local media, in no way, that's interesting, meaning they either buy on behalf of others or have other plans with those local media. I must say, unfortunately, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted another SPS proposal, which our colleague Rajko Baralic has proposed, amendments and additions to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. It is about enabling children from agricultural households who have lost one or both parents and have no right to any form of social protection, it is about underage children without close relatives and any income. We have suggested that changes eliminate and enable children from agricultural households who are left without one or both parents, and are underage, and attend school, to exercise the right to material security as a permanent form of social protection. My colleagues, the MPs, on behalf of the SPS, I mentioned four laws that the National Assembly did not accept to be the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am fully convinced that each of these laws is more important than the laws we discuss. I am fully convinced, because the laws we are discussing, laws that have limited range, and the second and third question is what will be the consequences of our country. When it comes to this visa relief law, it is necessary to say why only these categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is November 5th, 2007. Nearly seven, eight years have passed since the five-October changes, and I ask all those who were ruling members of the then ruling coalition, what happened to those 2000 DOS promises and later that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to travel to EU countries without restrictions? What happened to that promise that there would be no order in front of the foreign embassies? What happened to those promises that the regime of issuing these travel documents and getting visas would be simplified? What happened to those promises that, except for that question, it will be resolved and what happened to the promises that Serbia will be able to be a member of this white Schengen list. I have to mention this for the simple reason that this first visa relief law with a Schengen leaf has no dots. These are two completely independent processes, which are being rejected from each other and it is good that this law is being passed, without further ado, but it is the fact that it applies only to certain categories of citizens. Business people, lawyers, doctors, architects, journalists, scientists, artists, sports participants, professional drivers, civil servants, forgive me, so they have traveled so far and unfortunately have not increased the number of persons, with all due respect, this could possibly happen with students and students on condition that they have money to travel. I mentioned to you the other day, when we had the opinion of the Legislative Committee, what is the situation with the number of young people who are poor in Serbia and, unfortunately, their perspective is very dreary. Not only is there not going to be an object and the concern of the state that they can study, but the question is whether they will have any other kind of money that their personality would, let me say, confuse and make people in the right sense of that word. It's a waste of relief when it's not going to get any easier to use. It is, unfortunately, one fact that exists because we have had one practical situation, in the 1990s, the number of people travelling abroad has been reduced due to sanctions, isolation, civil wars, because of everything that has been the reality of Serbia in those years, of course, because of the change in the regime and the issue of visas that are in EU countries. That's one fact, but it's interesting for this new relief, and the question is, how much will the number of people that will use this law increase? In any case, we think it is good that this law is the subject of reviewing the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will also support it, but the question is objective, how many people will be covered by this law when it comes to the second and third laws, I have to say that these two laws, at least from the point of view of the arguments written in the proposal of these two laws, hide much more than they provide answers to some questions. We, MPs of the SPS, cannot go beyond the fact that tonight in the National Assembly we have not received answers to a number of questions that are being asked apropo consideration and adoption of these two laws. We don't know, and we'd like to know what the number of people is. The minister mentioned that since 2003, up to today 17,900 people have been subject to this law, which is the point of the agenda, but the question is, how many people are the general subject of the reading, is it a thousand, two thousand, 15 thousand, 50,000, 100,000, 100,000, 100,000? I think we need to know, as the National Assembly, when we adopt such an important law, what number of people do this law apply to? Next question, who will pay for it, who will pay for the accommodation of so many faces, and where will they be placed? Is there a plan, if you want a spatial, territorial one, where those faces will be placed, how many will come to Serbia. Is there an operational plan that says Serbia accepts the obligation to accept 10,000 people on the basis of that and the agreement. The figures will be brought to Serbia within the time period from 1 January 2008 to 31 June 2008, by months, quarterly, in a year so much, for two years, the funds for their acceptance will be provided by the state of Serbia. You yourself know what a disastrous economic situation we are and how much poverty is present in Serbia. Either it will be said – the funds for the accommodation of these persons are provided by the European community, by giving so much and so much money or by lending to you and that bank, under these and those conditions. Personally, I think that these questions must be answered, because without answering these questions, this law remains short and is then more understood as blackmailing the Government of the Republic of Serbia – you must accept this if you want this visa waiver law to be ratified in the EU. This is related to one another, with this law on readmission being a condition for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list. That's what the minister explicitly said, and that's what makes it clear. So it would be good to know who these people are who are going to be the subject of the reading, how many of them are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how many are third-country nationals, how many are non-citizens? I must remind the forgetful that it is about the people who have left these premises in the 1990s, for various reasons, someone with a belly after bread, and someone has gone showing themselves as a persecuted person in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as a victim of the regime, as they like to say, in the 1990s, as someone who cannot show his ethnicity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in one way, portrayed himself as a victim of a political system from the 1990s. It would be good to know this data, in that structure of the person that will be the subject of the reading, how many are. I will remind some that when those persons went to the countries of the European community in the 1990s, they were part of a campaign that was then headed against Serbia. They consciously represented themselves as part of what was called a humanitarian disaster, and they were objectively part of the Western policy towards Serbia in the 1990s. Namely, they served as an indication that there are thousands, two, three, five, ten, we have not discovered to the end what the number of these people who disagree with the regime's policy in Serbia, as they like to say, so because of terror, pressure, violence and everything else they have left Serbia. It would be good to know how, from the perspective of the structure of these people, the situation stands. Another question relating to the application of these two laws – will the persons who will be the subject of the reading be able to return, of course, provided that there are relevant data, to the places where they went and does this apply to all? For example, I heard about people who left Kosovo and Metohija, including Serbs and Montenegrins, there are Roma, there are Albanians, will they, for example, will the persons be able to return to Kosovo and Metohija, will they be able to return to their home, will the international community allow them to return to the homes they left? Does this also apply to Serbs, Montenegrins and Roma, whether it applies to Albanians, or whether Albanians will be placed on the premises of Bujanovac, Presevo or Medvedje and be part of an environment they were not in when they went to EU countries ten years ago? It's a question that requires an answer. We know that this is an international agreement that cannot be changed, but we were aware of the importance of this topic and we felt that it was necessary by some special document, if the Government has it, I welcome it, if it isn't, so much worse for the state of Serbia, because it says that the government doesn't care about how many people will come, what is the dynamics of those faces or the like. I'm going to mention this as the final thesis for tonight, and I think it would be good if the state of Serbia had predicted the possibility of canceling the application of this agreement if one of the EU member states... Finishing... It would be good if Serbia could have predicted that it would cancel the application of these contracts if one of the EU member states recognised what we are all afraid of, that Kosovo and Metohija would unilaterally declare independence on December 10th of this year. If an EU member state dares to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, then it would be logical for Serbia to cancel the application of the agreement with the country, in the part to which the agreement applies. In any case, we haven't heard here tonight from the government's representatives a lot of data which, we personally think, deserves to be the topic of talks at the National Assembly session and which would, in fact, show the right situation – what are the obligations that Serbia takes, how many people are concerned, when these people will be returned to Serbia and who will bear it economically, where it will be inhabited and whether it is the blackmail that Serbia has accepted, and we think it is, to show readiness for European integration. Unfortunately, another move that shows that Serbia does not, in fact, have the ability to run the right state policy, but rather leads one policy that is only part of the interest of Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9805	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Rajcic, Dr Vladan Batic, followed by Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9806	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may at this point, after a little longer discussion by Mr. Obradovic, have deplaced the reason why I called, but I couldn't keep my mouth shut and pretend that I hadn't heard Mr. Mihajlovic's discussion, a pre-exputed debater, who made false claims from this speaker. I have no intention of turning my attention to the only misery that started the debate on the proposed agenda point aside, but I had to, precisely because of the truth that you, gentlemen of the SRS, brought out through Mr. Mihajlovic's mouth and words, to answer and to deny it. In fact, Mr. Mihajlovic said, and I think it was incorrect why he came out, besides the living, healthy and here present president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Vlada Milentijevic, to report on the Committee's session in Gracanica. But it's on his soul. I don't think it was politically correct for him to do so, but his thesis and claim that he did not participate in New Serbia's representative, I'm going to put in the same basket with reasons why the representatives of the other parties mentioned cannot possibly be at the same level and are not at the same level. In fact, the representative of New Serbia in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Markicevic, on that day, was justifiably absent because of his illness, but as a member of the Parliament, I used my parliamentary right to go, which could have been done by anyone here, as Mr Mihajlovic and other members of the Assembly Committee know. That day, in my opinion, I had an envious share in the work of that congregation committee. The exact claim he made, and here I will conclude, is that we have been welcomed by a large group of citizens of Gracanica. I just have to mention that the group that welcomed us had 90% of the members of New Serbia and that there were representatives, co-ordinators of the municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, who came that day to support the work of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which is otherwise a beautiful fact that this event is happening right there and what should become a practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9807	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9808	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the replica of Mr. Mihajlovic, who explained the reasons for the absence of individual MPs from the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which was held in Gracanica. I told Mr. Mihajlovic more days in advance that I would not participate in this farce and why. For a simple reason, and I warned the president of the Committee, Mr Milentijevic, to invite all accredited journalists to the National Assembly, not to have some "secret dinner" organised there. That request was not answered. I also insisted that a cabinet session be held first, because it was planned to change the co-ordinators and some district chiefs in Kosovo, who, ladies and gentlemen, are the generators of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. There they seduced the fear, burning and burning and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were discouraged and repressed, disappointed, confused, completely panicking. I've spoken to several of them, and they say, "So we don't believe if the Albanians take over the power that we can do worse than our own." They are generators of abuse, corruption, nepotism, crime, the opening of illegal border crossings, smuggling, ties with Albanian criminals, roads without tender, housing buildings without tender are being built, apartments are being hijacked. Kosovo has become a mother for someone and a stepmother for someone. This Committee in Gracanica has, as they have already been said, all of them were present to control what is being done, because whoever says otherwise is slandering and lying. Ask ordinary citizens, go to Kosovo and Metohija, how they feel about those who exercise power on behalf of Serbia and about the co-ordinators and individual district chiefs. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9809	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9810	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP, Mr Zoran Krasic, mentioned my name in an untrue context. He mentioned a lot of facts that don't match the truth. I just want to say that Mr Krasic here is untrue in order to demean the work of his fellow MPs, including my personal work and behavior. I can fully agree that roses do not flourish in the judiciary and that reforms are necessary, and that this government, headed by Minister Petrovic, as responsible for the state of justice, will implement the necessary reforms in the judiciary. It is clear that after the adoption of the new constitution, the legitimacy of all public officials should be checked, so elections for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia have been called, elections have been called everywhere where legitimacy has not been verified in the meantime. Clearly, elections will be discussed for the president of Serbia, as it is necessary to verify its legitimacy. It is also clear that we must re-election fully in the judiciary, so that all those party personnel, which you have laid down and elected for years by party bunkers, which you have mentioned here at the pay phone, to relieve the population and to make the judiciary work. There's no more party ideologies in the judiciary. Serbian citizens know that individuals in the judiciary are functioning and that constitutional and legal powers are necessary to implement reforms in the judiciary. You mentioned both County and Municipal Court here. You probably found the occasion in writing some daily papers, that it was necessary to review the work of individual judges in the Serbian judiciary, including in the paper, in cases that were outdated and where the prosecution against some perpetrators, who are also dignitaries of some Serbian institutions. It is clear that the principle of responsibility in the Serbian judiciary should be introduced and implemented to the end. This means that those who have acted beyond the law need to bear the proper consequences. You mentioned my name and last name in the context of some private company owners. You mentioned a company called Nini. I'd like to say for your information that my attorney's office is defending people against Mr. Joce Nini in two ongoing proceedings in the court of law. So, the complete truth is how you connected my name to the business of some Serbian businessmen. You also mentioned an address and a bunker, that I allegedly met with Minister Petrovic. Democrats do not need to meet secretly in some bunkers, we speak our views publicly, we stand for our views and principles in this Assembly and in the Committee on Justice. I'm saying, if you think that most judges in the Serbian judiciary have been elected from the Democratic Party list, as you keep saying, why do you object to the general elections, then I guess they'll all be cleared and, of course, with your participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9811	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Cedomir Jovanovic, and then Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9812	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, I would like to apologize for your harassment, but I think it's time for you to apologize to Parliament and have to conduct your talks elsewhere. I have reported in accordance with Article 225, as head of the parliamentary group, I would like to inform you that we have taken the initiative, given that Parliament's leadership has not been prepared for such a thing. We interpret this unwillingness as direct support, not to the Council for the fight against corruption and corruption of the anti-monopoly commission, but to a private company. Given that Parliament did not want to launch within this session a discussion on the attack on the government and on the government's institution, or on the assembly body, we have in contact with representatives of the Anti-Corruption Council and the heads of parliament clubs scheduled for tomorrow, at 11.00 a.m., a conversation that will at the same time be an opportunity to define the clear bases on which Parliament and the Government, and we believe, will be ready to act together, in accordance with the public interests of the citizens of our society, who at this moment are at risk of dominating the private interest of a company. Whether it's Mr. Miskovic's company or anyone else, it's less important at the moment. It is a much more important principle, i.e. the fact that institutions do not have the protection of those who are obliged to stand behind the institutions, therefore, the Government and Parliament, the Prime Minister and the President and the Presidency. We expect the MPs to accept this call and to take note of the facts necessary for redefining Parliament's position on such a large issue as the fight against corruption and organised crime during tomorrow's debate and dialogue with the Council for Anti-Corruption Council. Tapping in the city, ignoring the devastating facts, threatening public authorities, civil servants, officials doing their jobs, cannot come across an understanding of the MPs who act in accordance with the public interest, the interest of the citizens they represent here. If there is no readiness for such a thing, we will certainly continue to do a realising policy that is much wider than the party concept that we are obliged to act within the Assembly, in all the remaining situations. As for the debate on these agenda points, the absolute support of LDP is for all government proposals. We believe that this government has done little and certainly is not the one that opens a European perspective for our society with its own policy, but this vote shows respect for the many people who have worked on this agreement for years to make life easier for our citizens. The issue of visa liberalisation and the issue of readmission is the question to which we have given a common answer, unfortunately, it is much more technically than politically due to the lack of a political response and clear political readiness in the further redefinition of Serbia, in order to draw closer to the modern European society model. For a long time, we will stand by these European flows, certainly, until the next elections, where we will be able to offer citizens a clear European alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9813	Thank you. National MP Zvonko Mihajlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then right to replication, MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to begin by answering Mr. Rajcic, in which capacity I came out here and delivered my opinion, I don't see him in the O.R., he's gone. As deputy chairman of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. I was recently able to find out what the main reason for members of the DS and G17 Plus Committee of Kosovo and Metohija were for the lack of income, they could not agree with their DSS coalition partners on the division of Kosovo and Metohija co-ordinators, who are 28, because the DS is asking 50%, the DSS offers 35% and for G17 15%. I am surprised, and this is a great absurd, as Goran Bogdanovic, a member of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, could be absent that day even though he, on the other hand, is a member of the Serbian Negotiating Team on the issue of resolving Kosovo's final status and Metohija. Does this mean that a member of the negotiating team boycotts the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee? This speaks of what these people have to do with Kosovo and Metohija. What surprises me is how she failed to interfere with the agenda point that speaks of spending on NIP funds. For Mr Markic, I know he was justifiably absent, he was sick. The president of the Committee told me that when he told him that the Committee would be held, he literally cried because he couldn't come. I apologize to him, and let the others do the honors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9815	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9816	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the line by two basiss. First, at the presentation of Mr Rajcic, I don't think he interpreted his colleague Mihajlovic well, because counterpart Mihajlovic said he only justified the absence of Mr Markicevic, so there is no doubt there. As for Mr Batic, Mr Batic has repeatedly made his remarks on the work of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which is not a practice for such unargumented facts to be presented in this home, because, in the end, it is true, and Mr Batic said he would not go to that farce in Gracanica. Mr Batic, this is not a farce, it is a decision by the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which decided at its third session to hold its fifth session in Kosovo and Metohija and to visit one district. The decision has fallen and the deal to be Gracanica. The first time we made an appointment, he justified his absence as a minister, because of the busyness, whether you accept it as a fact or not, it's yours. But to go and keep the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija in Gracanica without the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, it is not in anyone's interest. The other thing was, and the intention was for the Committee to hold a session with representatives of Kosovo citizens and Metohija and Kosovo County citizens. That's a fact, that's an argument. No coordinators attended, I think two or three co-ordinators attended, but members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, seven out of 15, attended there, testified that citizens had been present since the beginning and that the session was not closed to the public, and that there were more than 30 accredited journalists in Gracanica, who were able to enter the hall freely and attend the meetings of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I did not say any of the reasons, nor did I state the reasons why other colleagues did not attend the session. The only thing I said, that's the fact that they didn't justify their absence. It is true about the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which was held in Gracanica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9817	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what my colleague Zvonko Mihajlovic said was quite true, he just missed one thing to say, and that is, that Mr Goran Bogdanovic, also a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, was not. I'm not surprised that the DS MPs often visit this hall worse, but really, as a man who lives in one entirely different part, who has been also several times disturbed, near war acts, and as a man from that area, I'm surprised that the members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija didn't come to that session. It's not a good enough reason. The president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija well organised the committee session and said it was there. It is not within the authority of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Batic, to divide the co-ordinators and heads of these districts. We went there with a completely different purpose and there was no farce here or there. The SRS has its own principle when it comes to participation in the work of the Assembly committees. When it comes to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, we have made an exception and we will continue to do so when it comes to the work of this committee. There's no valid reason, nor can it be justified, which is why they didn't leave. As a national MP, Coli Rajcic was and participated in the work of the committee, however, it is not nice to say that there were the most members of New Serbia. We did not look for membership books there, nor will members of the SRS, and members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, I hope that this practice will continue and in the future, ask the present citizens to show us the membership books they belong to, I think it is pointless. That anarchy, Mr. Batic, which you talked about a little bit, began at the time of Nebojsa Covic when he was head of the Coordination Centre there, when he deployed the funds, and SRS MPs also pointed out for this speaker how these funds were being spent. It seems to me there's still such a possibility, but it's a very bad practice and it needs to be interrupted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9819	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9820	Mr. Ristic, your place is the buds where you negotiate, and it's not mine, but since you don't believe what I'm saying, ask any Nishi, who has a greater influence on the justice system, you or I? Answer which president of the court you're protecting, why you're protecting. For three years, I haven't had an answer to the question why did my criminal case become obsolete in the Nish Municipal Court, on whose orders did it become obsolete? What's the inspection now? Why hasn't she found out yet? One year, 40 and some cases are out of date in court, right? To remind you, your friend progressed on my case, Milan Nikolic, went to the District Court judges. And look at the wonders of the greatest, the day he dictated the judgment of the District Court, you elected him here as judge of the District Court. You're talking about someone here taking lies from a pay phone. Ask me, I'm not talking about the pensioner, I'm talking about the President of the Municipal Court, I'm not talking about all the stuff you've been doing, what you've been up to and what you've been up to, it's not about the Democratic Party, it's about him, it's about Vladimir Domazette, people who are limiting their personal interest, people who are pushing later on into the Supreme Court. Dusan Petrovic, look at him, according to Bosko Ristic's orders, so as not to reveal what the former president of the Municipal Court, who, meanwhile, was hiding cases in drawers, did not allow the revision to go. That's the bench. What kind of tick? They share money, drink little, and then Mr. Dusan Petrovic, understand this, July 4th of this year was filed, a claim for the protection of legality was written, handed over to the Supreme Court by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Jocic, only September 17th. First they get sides in the notification process, 12 they come to a session, 11. TV Sarajevo announces the decision. Yeah, yeah, Sarajevo TV, you got a receipt, figure out where Sarajevo is, figure out how many miles, you got a computer. Count it out. What they do, Mr. Jocic, do you know? Someone has given up the prosecution of the former president of the court for violent malfeasance. The minister changed, then the application for legal protection. A man can't be convicted, but he can establish a breach of procedure in order to contrive good judges. A good judge in Nis, Katarina, you know he's a good judge, but you do mind, because he needs your interests to carry out, the interests of Bosko Ristic and his benches. It has nothing to do with DS, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-05-0.u9821	I'll schedule a session tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
