ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1072	Thank you. There are countries in the world that regulate government affairs through government internal acts, as in many countries it is believed that, especially in cabinet systems, government work and parliaments often have nothing to do with it. In our constitutional system, government affairs are considered the affairs of the state administration, in the strictest sense, because the ministries are nothing more than state authorities, so the government's affairs are regulated by law. So we in the National Assembly must pass a law on ministries to settle the affairs of the state authorities of the administration. Each time, here, after the elections have been made, and at the moment when the government is to be established, and so on, the new Constitution, as a prerequisite for the government's constitution, for the government's choice, the adoption of a law on ministries that, in practice, provides for the regulation of state authorities and their partial work, both the ministries and those organisations that are within the ministries of the Republic of Serbia. There are two key bases, two key directions to amend the ministry law. One group of reasons concerns, above all, the termination of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and, in accordance with the new Constitution and established powers of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to establish certain powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the state bodies, i.e. the Directorate or other organisations within the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to newly established powers arising from the status of the state of Serbia, the other reasons for the changes you see here are in line with the nature of our constitutional system and, of course, with the policy being conducted within this system, because, this system or part of this constitutional system, make up three branches of government in its core, and within the assembly government, legislative authorities, there are institutions that make up this legislative authority basically, these are the MPs that are organised into political parties, and therefore, the agreement of political parties on the establishment of the government, on the formation of the government, of course, influences the way in which the government's affairs are organised. So that's what we had last time as the basis for the debate, and last time, and we'll have it according to the constitutional system, which is here in our country, every time. It is hard to expect that, simply, the Ministry Act, which was in force last time, can be applied without any changes each time. It would be nice to do that, but in any case, at least at least the changes, always in this country while this constitution is in force, we're going to have to apply anyway. This proposal, in short, changes are being made. We are getting some new ministries, redistributing the affairs of the state administration within the ministry, namely the formation of new ministries in relation to the existing ones. I'll give you just a few examples, so I don't give you all the details of the proposal, which you've all got, I don't think there's any point in repeating it all. So, we have, in this case, a whole new ministry, that is -- the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija; -- the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, which has taken over the jobs of the current Ministry of Capital Investments and the Ministry of the Environment; – the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which will carry out the jobs of the former Ministry of Economy, but also the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, the affairs of the state administration in the field of tourism, which have so far been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Employment, which have so far been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. We have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. As we said earlier, we had no Ministry of Defence in the state administration system of the Republic of Serbia, but when the state union ceased to exist, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia created the basis for the adoption of amendments to the Law, which would certainly foresee the existence of the Ministry of Defence. This law does not explain in detail all the responsibilities or lists of all the responsibilities of these two ministries, because there are specific laws, and there are relevant norms of this law, which say when there is something that is not regulated in this law, which norms and which laws will apply to these two state authorities of the administration. In the description of the foreign ministry's jurisdiction, this is what I said, the responsibilities of former Serbia-Montenegro's ministries are now transferred here, so in that sense, except for certain ministries, again, I said, I don't have to say everything, there are other state bodies such as the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, as a special state body within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and new special organizations such as the Institute of Intellectual Property, such as the Directorate for Internal Waterways "Plovput" and "Geomagnetic Institute". Let's not go any further, we cited the reasons, we explained the constitutional basis, and also the specificity of the domestic legal system that requires this kind of action. I hope that the National Assembly, which suggests a number of signatories proposed by the ministry law, will adopt this law and thus pave the way for the government of the Republic of Serbia to finally choose and thus circle the constitution of all the state bodies of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1073	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, gentlemen. The word is Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, Mr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although this law is proposed in accordance with Article 4. I must note that the whole law is the result of not any more serious reflection on the future of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, but the result of compromises in political trade and agreements between ruling political parties. So, on the basis of the jurisdiction and the authority of certain ministries, you will easily conclude who is at the head of the ministry, and on the basis of the amendments of certain ruling parties, you can see how far it has gone in the conflicts, disputes and persecutions of the representatives of the three political parties, what to whom and how much it will belong, who will take most of the cake, and it is interesting that from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, representatives of one ruling party want to throw out competences for public ski resorts and to return the competence for public ski resorts to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, only because, by chance or not, Mladjan Dinkic and the president of some ski alliance, or I don't know what, so don't belong to another minister, but it has to him. I took this example to show in a plastic way what our government is doing, which is what it does, that they are absolutely nothing else interested in them, but from the division of prey and the division of Serbian resources. This is not a law that will, in any way, seriously regulate the affairs of the state administration, but only who, where and over which he has the authority to resell, sell, use, use and abuse the property of the Republic of Serbia. Authorities in Serbia have told us that they are always a huge state administration for a reduction anyway, that a more efficient state administration is needed, that it is necessary for Serbian citizens to give less money and that they have better protection of their rights and that they have an uncomparedly organised government. Finally, we got four new ministries to calm down the ambitions of individual politicians, so they could continue to remain ministers, and we lost one of the very important ministries. If, even not because it had an impressive effect on the ministry in the previous period, if not because it had a significant effect on life in Serbia, but it had some kind and a good indicator – what Serbia stands for today and what kind of relationship it wants to have with national minorities. We no longer have the Ministry of Protection of Minority and Human Rights. So, there are no more ministries that will take special care of minority rights, and unlike them, I don't want to say that minority rights are at stake in our country, but it certainly was necessary for us to send as a signal to national minorities, but I would also say to everyone in the world, that we are a country that, apart from the declared protection standards in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, except for the cognitive norms in Criminal Law and in some other laws, and the special authorities of the state administration, protects the rights of national minorities, because it is vital and vital to our country. This government has forgotten and erased that possibility. That it is only about the division of Serbian resources, and nothing more, shows the fact that you have transferred one broad area, from work and social policy – employment or material security of the unemployed, to the category of work of the economy ministry and regional development. Because Mladjan Dinkic must have such extensive work, he must be a minister for everything: the Minister of Public Skiing, although a certain ministry of trade, he must be a minister of employment, he must control the whole market, he must control the complete privatisation process. You saw for yourself from three ministries, even, taking over all employees and complete their infrastructure. There are some strange things in the law itself. There is no jurisdiction or authority of the interior ministry, which is one of the key responsibilities of the interior ministry - there is no protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia. This is, as you know, primarily thanks to the special services available to the Ministry of the Interior, which operate within the Ministry of Interior in the area of security protection of the Republic of Serbia, which is a priority for one of the most important ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not here, maybe because someone thinks the Department of Defense can take over. It's absolutely impossible to take over everything. It's absolutely impossible for the Ministry of Defense to be fully involved in the work of foreign intelligence services and to be covered by intelligence and counterintelligence, which is largely in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, which is not here in the bill of law. When I said that we have a massive state administration, not only counting the 22 departments that provide for the law, we today have a proposal for many special organizations, many special organizations for which we are unable to find the right reason to exist. We have the Ministry of Infrastructure – someone was intruding (see what they actually did) to be the Ministry of Capital Investment, although there is no difference compared to the Ministry of Capital Investments, except someone will say they've been singled out of telecommunications. And telecommunications are other lex specialis, therefore, special laws – this matter is completely left to other competent state authorities, and to RATEL and RRA, and at least it has to do with any ministry. What they say will determine the range of frequencies where anyone and how to work, at which frequency, is in charge of the telecommunications ministry. Well, that's impossible. That someone must inform you, because the law has prescribed a second obligation for other competent authorities in this area to the social one. At the same time, the Ministry of Infrastructure couldn't be called the Ministry of Transport and Urbanism, because I guess that's not modern enough, or I don't know what it is. And don't call it capital investment to make it look like Boris Tadic has changed something -- see, he disagrees with capital investments, so now Velimir Ilic is the minister of traffic and urbanism. It's like there's some kind of difference. It's like something's fundamentally changing. It doesn't change anything, except to watch who's gonna take their 'feud'. This law was not made as a general act to which any government should behave and form in the future. The law was made according to the individual will, demands and wishes of future ministers and parties that participated in the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's so clear that literally one who just looks at the text of the law will be quite obvious to him. We, in the framework of special organisations, when I was talking about the Ministry of Infrastructure, have a local self-government infrastructure development agency and a foreign investment agency and export promotion. The amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, I have seen some other MPs, raise clearly the question of which is difficult to answer – what does the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure or Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency want us to do when it is a job of the government authority at the republican level. The Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion, therefore everything you talk about, is within the scope of the delirquent, in Article 10, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, completely. What will a special agency past the ministry, except that there would be 50 other employees, 50 more from a party to find refuge, 50 more of them to pay representatives of Serbian citizens, so Serbian citizens to pay, to take the people as much as possible? What's the point, then? What do we need the Ministry for? What is it that the ministry can't do and that agency can do? Is there anyone who can say that? There's no one here. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that now there's been a fight over the agencies. Why did I mention these two? Because, carefully if you read the amendments to the government's representatives, the local self-government infrastructure development agency is an independent body at the level of local self-government, however, who, of course, is forced to co-operate with the Ministry of Infrastructure, but has also arrived an amendment of the representatives of the regime that says the agency must also be tied to the economy and regional development ministry, that is, to whom, for his Majesty himself, to Mladjan Dinkic. Is there anything else you can tie to Dinkic and Djelic? Is there anything else to give them in this country?- I'm sorry. Is there a national treasure? Is there a resource they won't have?- I'm sorry. How few votes you need to get, and get more treasure and more wealth that has nothing to do with what was in the past, or with any intensities of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or even the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution. But this was designed to appease the appetites of all who had to participate in the government. And, it is clear now, I do not have to get the Ministry of Finance, because I, here, now, it is important to let the citizens hear what Mladjan Dinkić has got: he does the business of state administration relating to economic and economic development, equal and regional development, the development of companies and other businesses, the integration of companies and other forms of organisation, the use of the name of the Republic of Serbia in the business name of the company, the business and financial restructuring of companies and other forms of business, privatisation, bankruptcy, standardisation, technical regulations, accreditation, measures and precious metals, structural adjustment of the economy, the establishment of industrial policy, the proposed economic policy measures for growth of industrial production in general across individual branches, the proposed measures to encourage investment investments. I ask you -- and why do you need ministers without portfolios to monitor how money from the National Investment Fund is spent, when Dinkic is already in the jurisdictional description, when you have already put it in the frames of his ministry?- I'm sorry. And he does other jobs: improving economic relations with abroad, proposing and implementing measures within these relations, concluding and monitoring examples of international trade contracts, and then integrated planning for tourism development, and then hiring in the country and abroad, and measuring directorates and precious metals. So is there anything else you could give? Is there any other part of the government you can make available to him? Can someone show me, Mr. Proposer, Mr. Aligrudic, to show me, anywhere abroad, so, by comparative analysis, by a parallel method, how you came to have some ministry have as much jurisdiction as you gave to Mladjan Dinkic, just to show me what country he has in the world. I'm not asking anything else of you, I'm just asking, in what country on the globe is there? If there is – you don't know anything!- I'm sorry. If not, just so we know who we have to ask for everything and everyone in our Serbia. The Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society – to make it sound like it has something to do, so now it's going to deal with computers, so I guess now it's going to be equipped with computer technology from our school, health centres, educational institutions, etc. What's this minister's job? In accordance with what law will it operate, in accordance with what law will it operate? We, people, have not passed the basic laws that we had to comply with the Constitution and constitutional law, we have no law on defence, the law on the President of the Republic, the law on appeals, the law on cassation courts, and we are going to talk today about having a Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society. What do you want him to do? To force software companies or computers to donate, how many rackets will have to pay state institutions to show up on TV and to be able to do certain jobs at the level of the Republic. Is that the point of this ministry, what's the other point? What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have to do with the information society? But you don't have to worry about it because it's just telling me you don't know anything. I'm willing to compete immediately in the knowledge of computers, computer programs, software and everything else, so you'll find that you don't know anything about it, but the question is, what do we need a minister for it? It's a problem you can't say anything about. The minister who should probably include "Microsoft" and say, "e, come on, a little more, pay for Microsoft" programs so far is not enough, because it is paid everywhere in the world. Is that what the minister needs? It is completely pointless, but it is obvious that it was also done to satisfy one's appetites and to show that it is necessary in every way to provide resources for all three participants, or there are more of them, but for these three at the highest level of the participant, the party in the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the government's election, especially at the Ministry of Faith, it will be very interesting how you change ministers. It's like the marbles that you're throwing, so either you're playing "trokish" or I don't know how: one little here, one little there, so whoever was in science can go into energy, one that was in energy, can go a little bit into religion and churches, whatever you want – anything can. That's what we used to say. But, unbound by that, there is one flaw that we have told you about, the Serbian radicals, here from the assembly pay phone several times, and that is, there is no clear distinction between traditional religious communities from what some call churches, although it is clear that it is about sects or those social organisations that cause great harm to every citizen, who are dangerous in all sorts of ways and that pose a threat to the future of our society and the future of our children. There is no distinction, so we have tried to amend that part of your ministry law and repair it. Since I see that this time planned for the debate expires, I was preparing, last night I was pleased to see the President of the Republic, you will hear and why the satisfaction, for the sake of the public, must say, in an arranged and set-up show that Mr. Shaper had arranged and set up, agreed and, indeed, from the inside that neutral viewers would appear, to which numbers the phones would be called, but from the thieves from B92, who stole 10 and a half million euros of money from Serbian citizens, don't even count in dinars, calculate only how many people's kitchens were abducted by Serbian citizens, how many schools we could build from the money he stole with Mladjan Dinkic from Serbian citizens. Well, just to calculate... But let's go back to what Boris Tadic said last night. He, of course, did not endure it, but had to do it all by acting nice or not knowing what, to dedicate the last five minutes to Tomislav Nikolic. There were, of course, those corrupt ones, by the way inserted, sentences and in the earlier part of his performance, but before the end, the man was completely opened. And, says Boris Tadic: "We returned in 24 hours to 1990, in a state of emergency." And I couldn't believe it. This is said by a man who was minister at a time when he introduced a state of emergency in Serbia. So Tomislav Nikolic is guilty of saying there is a constitutional possibility, which Tadic has used in his time, and Tomislav Nikolic has never, ever, introduced a state of emergency. And Boris Tadic, it doesn't matter, he wasn't even in the party, now you'll hear, Mr Micunovic, when you signed something against Zoran Djindjic, and he wasn't in DS, and it doesn't matter. Boris Tadic, Mr. Micunovic, was he vice-president in the Citizens' Council or was he a minister or anything, was a senior DS official who seduced the state of emergency and tyranny in Serbia. And, Mr. Micunovic, to see how much I respect you, I'm about to read something that you signed with Boris Tadic at the time. I brought it to the citizens of Serbia to read, it's very important, it's signed, ladies and gentlemen, on January 6, 1993, I have to tell you that the source of the Time List is probably not gonna lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1075	Please, Mr. Wolfie, read it, so let's go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1076	I will, Mr. Grouchy. They say, listen, please: "If we want to preserve our Democratic Party from new deobes, we must openly say what is the opposite of its being, its ideals and its values. First of all, any kind of coup, in which the usurpation creates a functional state and by the logic of a finished act imposes a final solution, must be prevented. The attempt by executives and administrations to usurp all power in the party has long been known as that dangerous bureaucratic and authoritarian tendency against which all democratic parties are fighting, and so must ours. The chairman of the DS Executive Board, Zoran Djindjic, part of the executive bodies and administrations have made this tendency quite clear, but it is nothing. Djindjic's upheaval in the area of party money deserves special attention. In the earlier period, it was accepted that donors and DS sponsors deliver or pay money to foreigners via Djindjic and the channels controlled by Djindjic. Despite the visible weaknesses of such practice, it is time for everyone to get used to it. Djindjic himself, with some insight from President Micunovic, had the money, i.e. According to his criteria he paid hired people, determined priorities, height of payment, etc. He often paid people directly out of his pocket. The Board of Supervisors didn't meet or control the finances. So Djindjic was also a commanding officer, cashier, accountant, accounting chief and his own controller. Fair enough! In time, he became accustomed to it being money that only through his merit and engagement enters the party and that only he has the right to deploy it, that is, that no one else has the right to see the inflow and to spend money. The issue of finance is becoming particularly sensitive for the DS and because people are reporting that they can invest large amounts of money in the party, but provided that the president is changed, so they decide who will be president." (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. ) Please, Mr. Mrkonjic, I must show the citizens of Serbia who are the signatories: Dr. Dragan Domazet, Ljubomir Tadic, father of Mr. Tadic, Boris Tadic, secretary of the DS's main board – is the one who declares last night that Zoran Djindjic has introduced major reforms. We see that Zoran Djindjic specifically reformed the financial system within the DS. Thank you Boris Tadic for that information. And I haven't told you what else it says, it says in just one sentence – in its quest for President Djindjic's post, he applied the 8th session of the SK Serbian and earlier communist campaigns. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, I don't know if Boris Tadic is right or not. But someone's obviously a thief or someone's obviously a liar. Now, what's there?- I'm sorry. It's either one Djindjic or another Tadic. So it would be good to answer those questions to the president of the Republic, and that kind of acting in which he will say that for Serbia it was very dangerous to choose the man whom the people chose, shows also problems with the personal vanity and complexes of the president of the Republic, who cannot regret the fact that the HDZ that was on his list, SDP and DS, all three parties together could not be close to the SRS, that this is his big problem, that it is much of a problem, but I promise him that these problems will torture him even more, because the victories of Serbian radicals will be more convincing and, I would say, expressed in an uncomparably greater difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1077	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The time that's been going on for over 20 minutes, five minutes goes on the party's expense. Who goes further than the head of the parliamentary groups to answer for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1078	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think that the legislator, Mr Aligrudic, explained in a very short introduction, in a few words, the essence of the new government and the essence of this law, the essence of the existence of a new assembly majority, because this law is essentially to be restricted, mutilated, by what the parties that make up the assembly majority agreed. This law wasn't made according to needs... (President: I apologize, Žarko, I ask the MPs to calm down and listen, if possible, to the debater. ) This law is not made according to Serbia's needs, at least the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law is made according to a party settlement, in order to satisfy party ambitions, interests, and especially leading people in these parties, or internal party relations. This is best seen by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but then. Definitely, the law was made according to party division. Mr Aligrudic mentioned two things – we have a congregation majority and that's politics, that's political parties' agreement. True, he is right and it is best seen through this structure of the ministries and, unfortunately, it is seen that such a law on ministries, as a framework for government work, does not give hope that Serbia will be better in the future. The Ministry Act, namely, for every government, and for ours, should be the most important law, because that law, in fact, reflects its work concept, reflects the way the government operates, reflects its practical and working philosophy. This bill that we received in the assembly procedure, according to the number and structure of the ministries, according to what should be the subject of their work, confirmed what we heard in the public – that the government will be party-divided, that there are no common objectives, that the party interests will be the main ones, that some of the current ministries are divided, and that new ones have been created, and that I will say something about it, that some new ministries have been created, among them a real mutant, or the ministry of swaggers, because it contains a lot of diverse jobs within one ministry that have no essential ties with each other, and all this has been done to satisfy the ambitions and interests of partners in the future government. One word, according to us, to the SPS MPs, this bill shows that the government does not have a clear and consistent concept of work and the organisation of ministries. We believe that artificial integration or the establishment of new individual ministries is not good and will produce more negative consequences. If you look at the draft labour law, you'll see that new ministries have been established. Otherwise, for those of you who don't know, the Ministry Act, which is still in force, envisioned the existence of 17 ministries, and now we have 22. It speaks for itself enough, but it also needs to be explained the structure of individual ministries. When you look at the bill, Article 2, then you will see that certain ministries are broken, that, for example, instead of the former Ministry of Capital Investment, the established Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, that the Ministry of Science and Environment is divided again to satisfy, or partners, the two new ministries, that the Ministry of Education and Sports is divided and formed ministry of youth and sports. Of course, the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija has become a new ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. What is interesting to say is that three ministries have been abolished: the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has been abolished. I think that the abolition of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad and abolition of the Ministry of Economy will be a bad message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially the abolition of the Ministry of Economy. If you say – these jobs from the Ministry of Economy have been transferred to the new Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, it stands. But this is just part of a job that the new ministry has. If you look at the bill and a member of the law relating to the structure of this new economy and regional development ministry, believe it or not, you'll see a lot. This ministry has taken over the jobs of the Ministry of Economy, of course, along with some new contents which, in the opinion of those who will be ministers, are likely to need that ministry, i.e. To him, they added the affairs of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. Believe it or not, they add the jobs of the Ministry of Tourism, and tourism is obviously in the opinion of a man who will be a minister (and at the head of this ministry) something that is very, very necessary for this ministry to function. Then they took over jobs from the Ministry of Labour and Employment, and that part about employment. There, apparently, a man estimated that he needed part of the job to round up, and through the amendment of one of our fellow MPs to this law, we see that a man who will be a minister, headed by this ministry, wants to have a local self-government infrastructure development agency in his system. So all of this contained within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is, in the opinion of the promoter, very, very little, and it was necessary to round it up a little bit and add to the agency for the development of local self-government. Otherwise, the local self-government development agency also has a large range of jobs, and this should have been added to make it much more. In one word, it is seen here in black on white that the ministries are made towards people, not according to the needs of the government, let alone the needs of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting to mention, by the way, that newly founded youth and sports ministry, that the part dedicated to sport contains only one sentence, because the other is dedicated to athletes abroad, and nowhere, for example, there is not a word about amateur sports. I take this as just one example, that it's purely mechanically taken that previous law and ministry is divided. Why? Because they're made for people, so you'll do anything later. When I say later, it absolutely stands, because the last sentence of this law is -- the means to implement this law will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This means that within a few days, when we adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we will be faced with one series of amendments so that the newly established ministries will be provided financially, i.e. to redistribute the ministries. When I said three ministries were abolished, I think it's very bad that no one will deal with Serbia's economy. There's a lot of unemployed people. Serbia's economy is not at all talked about. There is no mention of economic development, no programmes, no employment projects. It was all left to someone else. The functioning of the market has been left behind. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been left at the mercy and mercy of what will happen, because, unfortunately, the promoter has shown that he has accepted part of the philosophy of one of his partners – that the state should not in any way protect domestic production and that, possibly, those who are successful in any way in any way of protection, because it is not only a feature, or it should not be a feature of Serbia alone, but of all countries in the world that care about their economy, but will let, I say, the new Serbian lords in four, five people who possess almost everything, simply overturn Serbia as it suits them. The Socialist Party of Serbia has tabled several amendments to the bill and our MPs will explain the amendments. We think it is necessary to form another new ministry, we have even offered an alternative, that the part of the business that we consider important, and it is related to veterans, can be found in the composition of another ministry; we have found, quite logical, that some of the jobs that are contained in this ministry of economy and regional development, since it is one, I say, mutant from the ministry, and I really don't see how it will work without it, of course, being appointed five-six assistants for each resort, but then it's not a ministry that will be functional, but it will satisfy the needs of the parties. We expect, of course, that, in the case that existed so far, this party division will be reflected within the ministry, and this has proved to be very bad. The SPS will not support this law because it really is one final, extremely bad law written in haste. It should reflect the government's philosophy of work, but the concept and content of the ministries show that these philosophies are gone, there is no consistency, there is no unity, there is no general goal, everything is partyly divided. Finally, as it is said by the way, in which the haste has been done, I would ask Mr. Proposer to explain to the Serbian public what "the Ministry of Internal Economic Relations" is. I didn't know, really, believe me, that we have the Ministry of Internal Economic Relations, because it clearly says that jobs are being taken over from the Ministry of Internal Economic Relations. Here's the proposal for a law on ministries that is valid, here's a new bill, no Ministry of Internal Economic Relations. But this shows, in fact, the chaos that exists in the congregation's majority and in the future majority, and the haste to create a legal framework for forming a government as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1079	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1080	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to protest the unpreparedness of the parties forming the government's majority to make this debate easier for us in the beginning by explaining the government law. I think it would be easier for everyone and there's no reason for any wandering that's going to be a consequence of the fact that we haven't gotten a clear explanation. It is obvious that based on the way this law was written, clearly, that, above all, the motif of the proposing was to meet the needs of the parties forming the government's majority, not to respond to the needs of our society at this point. I think it is more or less clear to all what the characteristics of the coalition agreement behind this government law are, but on the other hand, we as Parliament must take care of what Serbia needs right now. I'd formulate that in two forms. I think the government law that the future government must... I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Mitsunovic, it's very difficult for me to speak to Parliament and, in doing so, I'm seriously thinking about you. Mr. Micunović, I can't speak from you. I respect you, you're the oldest MP here, or one of the oldest. Dragoljub Micunović, from the place: What do you want me to stand up when you speak? I also have the right to whistle as an MP. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1081	Please, Mr. Professor, don't disturb Mr. Jovanovic. Dragoljub Micunovic is leaving the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We believe that at this point it is necessary to meet: the principle of efficiency and the principle of economics. Serbia needs an effective government and Serbia needs a government that will further reduce its costs. Because we're asking the transition society to save, and we need to be prepared to tighten the belt and the state that requires it from its society. I must therefore say that I am not satisfied with the way in which the establishment of the future government is proposed, above all, with the fact that the government will have 22 ministries. Why? Because our neighbour's government, Bulgaria, which has introduced its country into the EU, has 17 ministries, our second neighbour, in Montenegro – 13, our neighbour Romania, also, EU Member States, 15, Croatia – 12. I don't think we should compare ourselves with a French cabinet that has 15 ministers, but it is clear that this huge government by number of ministries is much bigger than the first reform government formed after October's changes, I mean the government of Prime Minister Djindjic, who had 18 ministries and, truth, seven vice-presidents, which was primarily due to the political situation in which the country, which cannot be called upon by a new mandater or legislators of this law, because the circumstances are completely different. So the principle of economics is not respected. The principle of efficiency, a lot has been said in previous discussions. I'm not happy that the promoter didn't tell us anything about it. Is the government pretending that in the government law, even without reading, they introduce the powers of former ministries of the former state union, or are we as MPs obliged to point out to the promoter the mistakes he made, which are not the result of the failure, but the negligence. The government doesn't pretend in 24 hours if coalition agreements are made. Not a good government! The way this government is formulated is not good. It does not respect that other criterion, which every government must respect, which is the principle of efficiency. It is clear that some of the moves the proponent had to take, and they are, above all, bound to return to the laws of the ministry of defence and the foreign ministry. This is proof that we've had the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for almost a year without a legal basis. And that's what's wrong. I wouldn't look too far at the standard responsibilities of the ministries that had previously represented the pillar of the government, but I think that through the Bill on Government we can see two tendencies about the future government. The tendency to implement a policy that has received support in parliament through the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, at a higher organisational level, concerning the activities of the Republic of Serbia in the process of defining Kosovo's final status. The second trend is also clearly expressed, although not mentioned in the government law. It is linked to European integration and European orientation on the future government. There is no European integration ministry, it does not have to be, but in that case every government ministry must have a strong sector that will deal with the integration of this segment of our state system or society into the European system of values. These are two models in the process of European integration. Either a strong ministry, the example was followed by Croatia, or a strong organisation within each ministry. But we don't have either. For example, the Ministry of Justice, in the Bill on Government, does not mention the job of European integration that the ministry must do. The Ministry of Education, no mention of the work of European integration. The economy, in a very bad way and at all, is not mentioned European integration. This is not proof of the unpreparedness of some parties to do this work, but it is a very clear announcement of priorities. That is why we cannot recognise in this law the government that is needed for Serbia: fast, efficient, uncompromising on some issues, because where does the government's right to expect society to change, if it itself is unable to change in the way it has to be done. I wouldn't spend too much time trying to analyze certain ministries. It is clear that they are made in line with the needs of coalition partners, not with Serbia's needs, and that is what is bad. I think the way their powers have been defined, of that government, will unfortunately make the most dysfunctional government since October 2000 until today. And the previous one was more functional, although there was a more complicated coalition behind it than the one behind the future government. How will our MP group behave? We can't vote for this government law for two reasons. One is clear, political. We have been given the term of office of citizens to promote in Parliament a policy that is directly opposed to politics led by Vojislav Kostunica or a future prime minister, or mandater, and the future prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason is this law itself. I know that, and I'm sure that many MPs, most of whom will vote for this law, think what I think and I, I'm sure I'm not wrong, but a law like this cannot be supported and I believe that in no other situation this law would not be supported. So, by violating the principle of efficiency, by violating the principle of economicism, by imposing a wrong priority through the formation of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, by marginalising the essential need and the only clear priority of our society, which is the business of European integration, this government law has disqualified itself to the extent that none of us can expect us to support it. We will wait for the candidates for ministers, the exposés of the prime minister and then be able to hold a more serious debate on this issue, because it is not in a satisfactory way presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1083	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Which one of the head of the parliamentary groups is this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1084	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, very briefly, only in a few sentences, state the position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians on the draft law on ministries. We are pleased that the new government will have, among other things, the Ministry of Information Society or the Ministry of Environment, or the Ministry of Youth, or Vice-President for European Integration, although we would like to have the Ministry of European Integration. That's what we think of as a sign that the new government wants to be modern, and we'll see how it goes. I must conclude that out of 22 ministries, this government will not have a ministry of human and minority rights, although national minorities make up one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia. If the new government will already be bulky and expensive, there is no reason or rational explanation why exactly the ministry of human and minority rights remains. Regardless of the lack of such a ministry, we will not propose an amendment to the bill on this issue, because we never wanted to obstruct the work of this parliament, and it is obvious that ministerial posts have already been divided among the parties. However, I would like to point out one very important fact-finding question, which is that it is very good, when there will be no ministry of human and minority rights, which is written in the bill that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is running a register of national councils of national minorities. And as we know, national councils of national minorities are bodies of cultural autonomy or personal autonomy of national minorities, which have functioned since 2002 under the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. However, I must say that for several months now there has been a very serious legal gap in this country's legal system, thanks to the fact that the re-election of national minority councils cannot be re-elected, although some, among other things, the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, have expired. We consider it a very important adoption in this assembly of laws on the elections and competencies of national minorities. That's what we're going to suggest. And we find it very bad that for more than two years this bill cannot enter the congregation procedure. We also find it very important that, until the adoption of this law, a provision is put into the proposed law on the ministries, and we will only propose this amendment on this proposal of the law, I ask the MPs to really vote in the course of tomorrow for this amendment, which would have been, that, when there is no more, there will be no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the Ministry of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, in addition to leading the register of national councils of national minorities, including those related to the selection of national councils of national minorities. It would be very important for these elections, national councils of national minorities, to be held as soon as possible to adopt the laws on competencies and how national minorities are elected. Please, this amendment, during tomorrow, vote, so that we can overcome this legal void, which has existed in our legal system for more than half a year. I must tell you in the end, given the fact that, according to everything, there will not be a ministry of human and minority rights within the new government, however, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians will have to be abstained from voting on the draft law on ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1085	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1086	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present to you in a few words the views of the Vojvodjanski MPs' Parliament, on the proposal for a law on ministries. Tuesday was the saddest day for citizens who voted for the parties that have been making up our parliamentary group since 5 October 2000. Of course, there have been many reasons for disappointment in the past seven years, but in our opinion, the peak reached Tuesday morning for several reasons. On the one hand Tuesday and Monday were the days when, unfortunately, we returned to the past again, and on the other hand, it was the morning when the democratic majority, which otherwise exists in our society, became, unfortunately, a parliamentary minority. It was defeating to watch and listen to the dictionary that was used in that debate and I must say, unfortunately, except for rare exceptions, and MPs who voted for a democratic candidate in that farsi participated. I must say that the behaviour of the DS over the past period has contributed significantly to the result of Tuesday's vote, and that is because at the end of March they proposed a candidate for the National Assembly president, and they did not consult with the parliamentary groups whose support for the election was expected. Afterwards, severe pressures from the international community followed, and some, fortunately, changed their minds. There was great relief among our voters in the Hungarian national community, but there remained a strong sense of bitterness. Either way, go back to the draft ministry law. As of January 22nd, the day after the election, the duchy MPs, as well as the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, reiterates the same view that Serbia needs a pro-European, stable and efficient government. After Monday and Tuesday, I'm afraid that this government, which or which we're going to choose tomorrow, will not be pro-European, perhaps partially, and effectively and stable, will certainly not be. It'll certainly be better than any anti-European government. We have a lot of grudges on the draft law on the ministries, that's what Mr. Pastor was talking about. The lack of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, we consider this to be the biggest failure, as well as the lack of the European Integration Ministry, but we are aware that always the parliamentary majority has the right to determine the structure of the administration, the structure of the new government. So, as far as the Vojvodjanski MPs' parliamentary club is concerned, we are not voting for the proposed law. And as for the vote for the government's election, we will make a decision after hearing the programme of the future prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1087	This was Mr Laszlo Varga, deputy president of the Vojvodjani group, LSV-SVM. Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to cheer Mr. Pastor up, I don't think he's read the proposed amendments. The SRS has submitted an amendment introducing the possibility of a ministry of human and minority rights. We thought, Mr. Pastor, of you and of all other minority members in Serbia. That's why we tabled that amendment, and I hope you won't avoid voting for that amendment, just because the SRS filed it. It simply seems to me, that, at times, some MPs have some sort of aprior attitude, refusing, according to the SRS, without being supported by anything, that they may explain it to nothing. The speaker earlier said it was the saddest day of Monday and Tuesday for him and his parliamentary group. For Serbia, it was the happiest day, until some brought it back to the past, in the past since 2000, tragic for Serbia, since the mafia began to govern it. I'd like you to tell me what was undemocratic about everything. Did we mention the hooligans and the pulling of ears, or did the Shutanite speak of it?- I'm sorry. Did we mention and invent murderers or did Dinkic talk about it?- I'm sorry. Have we spoken strangely about some people, or have we spoken to representatives of ruling parties?- I'm sorry. And then what bothered you about Serbian radicals? Because we chose the president of the National Assembly in a democratic way, not by burning down the Assembly?- I'm sorry. I can understand that it bothered you that at some point we believed Vojislav Kostunica. That might have bothered you. Because it turned out that Vojislav Kostunica should never be trusted for anything, because all he says is he can turn the other way!- I'm sorry. He is in four days, so he has not even turned four days, three days, from Tuesday morning to Friday morning, from one co-operation that is important for Kosovo and Metohija into a completely opposite, also co-operation, because of Kosovo and Metohija. Those whom Mr Aligrudic so rightly called traitors and spies have suddenly become the greatest patriots. In just three days, and Mr. Aligrudic has not yet withdrawn his words that they are traitors and spies, which means that in three days, he may say the same thing again, perhaps even today, who will know him, it is a long day. I would ask you not to involve us in the stories of Aligrudić about traitors and spies, we said it a long time ago, we don't change that opinion, and even in the stories of tearing out ears to Mr. Aligrudić, we will never do that to him. I even guaranteed him that I would defend him from the Shutanovite, that he would not worry, so don't worry. We are here the most rational and reasonable factor in the National Assembly. We will take care of the rights of national minorities and the fact that Aligrudic is no one to pull ears, that he does not have to change his mind every day about spies and traitors, and that he clearly knows what Mr. Tadic and Micunovic were saying about Zoran Djindjic on January 6, 1993, how the 'hara' of the DS case and how he took all the finances into his own hands and out of his pocket that determines, what and how. But, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it has nothing to do with the SRS. You're gonna tell us that we're having an impact on the Time List, so let's just believe you. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, this ministry law has been made to satisfy the affinities of Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic and Vojislav Kostunica! This law was not made for Serbian citizens and was not made for the state of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1089	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. Mr. Varga, I understand, you're a young man and you've probably been intimidated as a young variety of things, out of darkness, out of order, but it's time to get rid of some unnecessary fears, especially fears that are related to some political parties and some stories about political parties that are absolutely unfounded. You have had the opportunity, almost seven days, to meet all political parties in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the way they function, and to combine what is in their names with the work, so there is no need for anyone to convince you of anything. You've had a chance to see the real state-of-the-art party - the SRS at work. You've had several examples, and you still have, that the SRS primarily takes care of the state and the citizens of Serbia. Do you realize that yesterday's work of this session could have been interrupted and that we would be off to new elections today, that our goal is to obstruct or any other way to harm the state and cause problems? Ask yourself why there are only three vice presidents sitting in this presidency. Ask yourself what democratic principles these are that this parliament is not being established in the way the Rules of Procedure implies. Ask yourself how the government of the Republic of Serbia will be formed and who will be sworn in. What about those who said they'd never cooperate with the SPS? They will have to take an oath before the SPS representative, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. He will read and they will repeat. Tell me, Mr. Varga, where's the morale? Where are the principles? There's only one thing that leads to these that you say is a block. The desire to get hold of some ministry, some agencies, to keep stealing, and also to prevent those in charge of the state, to call them to account for a previous time while stealing and destroying this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1091	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Are any of the heads of Parliament answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Srdjan Shane. I ask experienced MPs, including Mr. Todorovic, to help me manage the session. Independent MP, Mr. Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1092	Ladies and gentlemen, today I have had a conversation with the presidents of student parliaments in Serbia and I can pass on to you their evaluations and reflections – to be in the future government a ministry that will deal in a special way with youth issues, and that the Ministry of Education must in a specific, new way treat this issue; that only representatives of student parliaments, which organise a conference of student parliaments, should be legitimate representatives of students, which should be a new way to define the passage of democratic ideas in the Assembly, and hence their direct influence on the work of the Government. What the Roma Party expects from this future government and this government law, which should define certain things, is to create institutional frameworks within the government that the government can properly implement the process of Roma integration, i.e. to realise so-called. The Decade of Roma, because otherwise, if we don't have the proper institutional frameworks, then we can't even talk about real success. The fact that Prime Minister Kostunica, as Prime Minister of the government, who is now outgoing, will see who will be prime minister of the coming government, signed the document in 'Dekadi', the fact that there was a Decade Secretariat in that government, which has not in the best way realised the issue, speaks enough in favour of the future government in its structures and also this government law, has to open up the possibility of resolving this issue, because it needs to define a different institutional framework. When we talk about details, I will especially talk about the question that the proposal does not define how national councils of national minorities will be in the procedure legitimate representatives and that the law did not provide for whose jurisdiction is to be called, or who will follow the election process. I hope at that point in the agenda, when we talk in detail, about the amendments, that we don't have to talk about it in more detail. This address would be used as an invitation to the proposings to include it in their proposal, so the session would really be more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1093	Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't have another chance to intervene. It's about the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I wanted to tell you about it in the context of my presentation, as a representative of the parliamentary group, but I'm going to have to do it now. Last night, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, not for the first time, violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 13(2), which speaks of the necessity of the care of the Serbian state for all its citizens and citizens, who are abroad today, and earlier it has been said that all its citizens and citizens must be taken care of, otherwise. Boris Tadic showed last night in the most brutal way what a coward he is and how small a man he is. Namely, on a show where no one could answer him, because he likes to go on shows where no one can answer him, Boris Tadic attacked the SRS MPs, but also SRS President Vojislav Seselj, saying some there are wearing some shirts, the symbols of Serbia, which embarrassed its name in '90. A year. Boris Tadic is much more than a disgrace to Serbia. If we had a President of the Republic, he would call together every day and ask – and how is Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, does he need any help and support from the state of Serbia? What is it that the state of Serbia can do for its citizen the leader of its country's largest party, who we know has no serious indictments, because we wrote against it ourselves. If we had the President of the Republic, he would know that we are not unculturally dressed: that we should come in suits, and put on a shirt, as a symbol over a shirt and tie, to show how much we love and respect Vojislav Seselj, because Vojislav Seselj is a man who today is five years in the detention unit. He's one of the bravest people. He has been in the detention unit for five years and has failed in no way and has not disappointed Serbia. No one in Serbia has said a single word against any Serb soldier! No noble volunteer, who laid his life on the altar of the Fatherland, has said a single word! He didn't save his own skin by putting someone else on the spike! Boris Tadic has dared to attack Vojislav Seselj and the largest parliamentary group. He dared to attack because he was a small man. Because he can't come out to face ideas and different opinions. Because he's only allowed to be with his equal-minded man where he's going to act, for God's sake, a great deal of concern and concern for our country. Vojislav Seselj – whether someone agrees with his political ideology or not, we Serbian radical, his followers, but I am also talking about people from other political parties, they have respect for this man, because he shows principle and courage, determination, loyalty to the country, which is most important. Because his love for Serbia and for the Serbian people is greater and more important than any of his wishes: to be together with both children and family and everything else, because Serbia is a liability to him and what will be discussed in the future about him and his work. And there's nothing to say about Boris Tadic. Sam, maybe, the fact that, since I forgot to read something else, you'll let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1095	Please, just hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1096	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. This is an important historical structure from the historical archives. The newspaper 'Time' said that you do not think that someone who assumes, so, when Mr. Micunovic, Domazet, Vučković, Ljuba Tadic, Boris Tadic, signed the following, the example works – Zoran Djindjic told the journalist "Nina" that politicians should not deal with business as well as business politics. At the same time, on the Democratic Party Executive Board, Zoran Djindjic has blackmailed all those present with a request that Slobodan Radulovic, director of the 'C Market', come to the second place in Belgrade, with an explanation that he, Djindjic, wants to now, commit himself to such a concept and people, that Radulovic is a sign of recognition of the Democratic Party. That's the boss of the bankruptcy mob that's being called out for and who's today who knows where! And this is what Boris Tadic wrote to Zoran Djindjic. These are all historical documents, historical buildings, archives. I can read more names for you who signed here... Bora Kuzmanovic, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1097	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1098	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I thought this was both very interesting and very interesting to you, and it certainly is for the citizens. I have a message for Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic, abandon Vojislav Seselj, you are not up to his knees! You are a small man, O great men only history, the people and great men can judge!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1099	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Rajko Djuric, followed by Mr Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1100	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is enough today to read the headlines of the Belgrade lists, so see the compass of this parliament. My professor Milos Erdeljan, who taught at the Faculty of Scripture the Old Jewish language and the Old Testament, began his lectures from the Psalm with the question of 'lama rachugo in', which in translation means 'Why Barbari'. It seems to me that for pedestal reasons, it would be useful, even perhaps necessarily, Mr. Chairman, to start every session of Parliament by word, by question, by why the barbarians are objecting. The barbarians are advertised at every session of Parliament, thus dissuading mental conversation, and devising action in broader proportions. Those who have nothing to say, who don't believe in anything, those who are the most incompetent, but would like to have the most capable slaves, poisoned life and social atmosphere in Serbia. Mr. Dacic humiliated you in public yesterday, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Murkonjic, as vice president of the National Assembly, and in his eight-way style, he brought down the reputation and dignity of this home. Given that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic led, I must say, a very correct session in Parliament, which I sincerely thank and congratulate him for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1101	Thank you, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1102	Unlike Mr. Dacic, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I remember, indeed, both in patriotic works and in this sense as a man and as a member of the Socialist Party, I support him. Mr. Dacic doesn't have the talent of a Raynon Keno, but he does his style exercises, a metaphorical class, a surprise retrograde class, an animistic class or an onamatopheic class, so botanically or zoologically, in free or hicay style. It might be fun if our country wasn't in such a state, such opportunities, and in such unfortunate circumstances. But this Dacic's befel and act humiliated not only the Parliament, but all the citizens of Serbia, and among them, of course, the Socialist Party voters, among whom I personally have friends. Because of the misbehaving and irresponsible relationship he showed at yesterday's session, I propose to the National Assembly to give Mr Dacic the appropriate measure in accordance with the Regulation. I am very grateful to Mr Tomislav Nikolic for congratulating Verica Sheriffovic, his Kragujevchanka, the mother of our country's winner. Marija Šifanovic has prepared a magnificent welcome, confirmed and proved she has a white and clean face. He inspired me, I must say, to fight with all my strength for the good and the good of our country and our citizens. Marija Sheriffovic participated in the pre-election campaign of the Union of Roma Serbia, as well as her mother, Verica Sheriffovic, for which on behalf of the Union, Roma Serbia, I thank and congratulate them once again. Maria's uncle, Mr. Milan Sheriffovic, is one of the vice presidents of our party. In addition, I was obliged to stand up yesterday against irresponsible comments from some MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Assembly. And they are, after all, shown on television. It would be my turn, ladies and gentlemen, that those who have mistakenly commented on the success of Maria Sheriffovic, are publicly sorry. The future president of the National Assembly and its vice-presidents, I ask that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure be strictly followed. They must be vigorously prevented and disabled by those who have filled their accounts and pockets and emptyed our lives to the bottom, because they still want to gain political points and reputation by destroying the reputation and dignity of all legitimate and legal institutions and institutions, by destroying the system of democracy and order in it, destroying Serbia's reputation, spreading chaos. These individuals have already shown countless times, indeed, that they have no head capable of solving problems, but that they have problems in their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1103	Please, Mr. Guric, watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1104	Jeftushenko, and I end up, disgusted by Stalin's cleaners, wrote, "They were killing. They're killing now, so they don't kill anymore. They'll kill to forget they've killed. By paraphrasing Jephthahenko, ladies and gentlemen, I say -- they lied; they lie now so they don't lie anymore; they will lie in the future, to forget that they lied. Let's stop, therefore, Barbarian, to finally see the sun of democracy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1105	Thank you, Mr. Djuric. The word has Mr. Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the replica. Next, Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure. After that, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1106	Dear fellow Members of the People, I report to the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Since Mr Dacic is not here, and the offensive expressions also referred to the parliamentary group, namely our party and Mr Dacic, I will say the following. I really need to ask Mr. Djuric something. Mr. Dacic will be here. What is Mr. Djuric, is he a girl for everything? He's giving us some moral lessons here. And where were you yesterday and why didn't you come out yesterday and tell us the same thing? What? Does it take all night for someone to come up with a concept to write and read? On whose behalf are you speaking now? What are those grades you're giving? What, you're a know-it-all, and the rest of us don't have that level of ability to talk? There's a good custom in this congregation, at least it was, if you want to speak to someone in person, wait for the man to be there and tell him. Now, here comes Mr. Dacic, so go ahead, you come out and say what you want. Then you will hear what he will answer you. Our party deal was yesterday, we made it public, and nothing was done behind the back. Mr. Dacic went out for this assembly pay phone and told Serbia that we do not want to cover other people's mess. If the congregation majority is formed, let the congregation majority lead this congregation, and let it bring things to an end. Let them replace Mr Tomislav Nikolic in the way they came up with it. All are calling for Serbia and are driven by party interests and reasons. It's a shame to hear such a series of insults, for absolutely no reason. You show up once as the protectors of one group and others. Here, tell me now, Dacic is here, please come out for this pay phone and tell me what you have. It's totally immoral the way you do it. Besides, yesterday was the time to say it. You're not talking today, you're talking to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1107	Thank you, Mr. Beard. There's a word Mr. Vucic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask Mr. Dacic to sit in place and prepare for the replica. [[Ivica Dacic, from the place: I was mentioned, I want a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1108	So I wouldn't read it, someone forgot the songs here. It says nice, somebody take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1109	Give it to me, and we'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to what the TANJUG official has said and some other state services, according to Vojislav Kostunica's direct order, have said. Otherwise, you will find out where he lived, where he lived, how and how much money he received in this campaign from officials in Vojislav Kostunica, with one goal and task, to muddle the Serbian Radical Party. I must say, everything you said you lied. What are you talking about, man?- I'm sorry. What nonsense are you talking about from here? How can you not be ashamed to come out of here and say the worst nonsense and fiction?- I'm sorry. The Serbian Radical Party, I went out the same night and the SRS congratulated Maria Sheriffovic on winning the Eurovision song. What are you talking about? Speaking of which, I must inform you, Jasko Sheriffovic is the grandfather of Marija Sheriffovic and has been a member of the Serbian Radical Party since 1995. How are you not ashamed to say stupid things, to abuse something, because you were summoned this morning by an official from the office of Vojislav Kostunica? There's something else I need to tell you, or he's got that warrant back at the time of the election campaign, and we're now collecting data where you're going to see about processing documents around the Holocaust Roma, which is a very important thing, to see who took the money. It's going to be a very important thing, to see how these things work and how they work. But let me inform you, when DS representatives pressured the Roma in the Vicika settlement to vote either for them or for you, they didn't even know that you were directly the official of Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet, precise data will soon be found out about it, hired for an election campaign. Then we sent our members to the village of Vicika in Kragujevac to protect them from pressure, not to vote people under pressure, but to go out and vote on their conscience, completely normal. One more thing. We are known as the people who Roma, not only do we have great respect for them, literally, we love Serbs as much as we do Serbs. We're not making any difference. You could see me in an election campaign for Belgrade if I had entered every Roma village. It's the same as every Roma child, as it is Serbian. I pardoned every child and treated everyone as I treated my child. Don't make that distinction for us and don't lie about the Serbian Radical Party anymore. You've lied enough, according to Vojislav Kostunica's orders, in the election campaign. You took a lot of money from them, people's money, state money, which they gave you, in black, in cash, in hands and in all other ways. Enough with the fraud of Serbian citizens. We're proud to have Roma as an MP today. We also had a Minister of Roma. We will have many other Roma, from Estrepar to Ramadanovic, and so on. You know that the Serbian Radical Party is the most popular among the Roma people. But those lies and those frauds are no longer worth it. Of course, yesterday and Tomislav Nikolic congratulated Mary and Verica Sheriffovic, we were looking forward to it. I asked Tom Nikolic to come out early, if there is a possibility that if the session continues, we will participate in the joy. Because we think the big thing for Serbia is done. Don't lecture us anymore. When an official of the government of Vojislav Kostunica thinks that you should go out for a pay phone to read a letter to Serbian radicals, don't do that. Learn that, because we will read the letter and that official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica. You like to be power, be, but leave the radicals alone, especially when they are righteous, honest, and tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1111	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. He has the word Mr. Petrovic. Sit down, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm replicating what Mr. Vukic was talking about 10-15 minutes ago. There is, of course, a major political struggle in Serbia. It has been run for 17 years and it is perfectly understandable that people, whether they are alive, Boris Tadic is the president of Serbia, or that their ideas are alive, and Zoran Djindjic is alive and here in Serbia inspires citizens of Serbia, inspires people who are involved in politics, represent the topic. The time will come and the time will come, which I am fully convinced of, and I hope that this time will come quickly, when we will not be forced to listen to this way of expression, when we will not be forced to listen to such outpourings of bad emotions. And that's the path Serbia is going to and where we'll be there in a short time. But, as the ideas of Zoran Djindjic brought this country, while he was alive in 2000, to a path that he will not come down from today, so Boris Tadic is the one who today, by his politics, defends this direction, and that direction will be continued. There was a small danger that this country was turning the path that its policy was going on and that didn't happen. It's good for Serbian citizens, it's good for this country, it's good for state interests. We will defend everything we defend against our state interests. That is why I am fully convinced that the citizens of Serbia, with relief and with very good emotions, have welcomed the news that conditions have been created to form a new government. I believe that this parliament will have hearing and state responsibility to turn this fact into a real life and that the new government of the Republic of Serbia continues to lead this country towards the EU, where we will eventually, in no time far ahead, arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1113	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now seen a miracle unseen, Dusan Petrovic has come out to replicate the quote. So, he didn't replicate to me, but to a quote by Boris Tadic. So, here, I agree with what it looks like and I will only read one part: "Plain emphasis – critical analysis of the Djindjic procedure", I read, therefore, what Boris Tadic says, "put emphasis on usurping the authorities in the DS and changing the party's identity and nature by turning DS into a leader's authoritarian party". But what's more important is that I have to read it to you one more time, and that's what I think it says about the character and the future government, but also about what's going on and what's going on. "Jindzic's usurpation of authorities in the area of party money deserves special attention. Djindjic, with some insight from President Micunovic, held that money, paid people by his criteria, determined the priorities of the payout, often paid people directly out of his pocket. The Supervisory Board didn't meet or control the finances. So Djindjic was also a commanding officer, cashier, accountant, accounting chief and his own controller. "Fairful! "In time, he became accustomed to the money that only through his merit and engagement enters the party and that only he has the right to deploy it, that is, no one else has insight into the inflow and spending of money." Now, that's what Boris Tadic told you about Zoran Djindjic, ladies and gentlemen. Are these my emotions or emotions Boris Tadic, or Dragoljub Micunovic, or do I not know who else? I understand, Mr. Petrovic, that you will come out to say something seriously, and you have repeated the same thing again, without explaining or answering the question I ask you. We heard that empty story again – yes, it was a danger, and now Boris Tadic will be steering. He doesn't control anything, he just listens to what Solana tells him. He, well, doesn't control anything living in this country, not even the finances of Zoran Djindjic, not even the team. And he used to try, so he didn't make it, and he couldn't know about it or do anything about it. But there's one other thing. Boris Tadic says only one thing all the time: "We will arrive in Europe". I don't know where we're going, I don't know what we're doing. I ask you: is the European Union seeking to destroy the constitutional order, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, yes or no?- I'm sorry. Does Boris Tadic support the anti-constitutional action, therefore, of some international factors who directly want to destroy the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the country of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Is the best one who says every day – I support Ahtisaari's plan and that is the only solution for Serbia's future?- I'm sorry. Is that your answer, is that your European future? The European future to take our territory, to tear down our constitution? It is not a European future, it is Serbia's occupation future, it is Serbia's saddest and poorest future. Now, we are fighting against that future of Serbia, and we are fighting for Serbia's future with Kosovo and Metohija, to make it clear to your friends who want to take it from us so that they can't take it from us and fight for the future of our children, not for the future of Zoran Djindjic and Boris Tadic, who are going to fight over. But you can go out again and deny the quote, the list is "Time," so say it's not true. We've heard a lot of things. And once again for Boris Tadic, do not touch Vojislav Seselj, you are a small man to speak of such a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1115	Thank you, sir. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported about what Mr. Rajko Djuric said. I don't know how I misbehaved yesterday. I just want to tell you, Mr. Djuric, since you're obviously a member of DOS's political option, because you've been pushing for lustration all along, and I'm not surprised you found yourself called yesterday, because you expected the SPS to help you form a government, if you want to form a government, no problem, do it without us. Well, do you think we serve here to bring you to power, to take responsibility, to choose the government, or to take responsibility for not choosing the government? What's in it for us? We don't participate in any of your deals. And who told you today that you're attacking me, tomorrow the SRS or everyone else, is part of your political agreements, and you wouldn't even be running for election if someone hadn't told you and that someone in the government didn't give you money to run for office, to kidnap the Roma votes that belonged to the SPS and the SRS. Well, you can tell from the plane. Besides, you're not the only Roma in Parliament. This is Mr. Shane. I apologize to him. What someone sometimes thinks of the Roma Party, of course, there are other parties, Jova Damjanovic, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1117	I ask the MPs to turn around and welcome Miss Maria Sheriffovic, who seemed to have listened to your discussion and your good wishes. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. I'd like the heads of the parliamentary groups and my colleagues from the presidency to have a soda in the salon with our Maria. Thank you very much. We continue the session at 12.15. [[After break – 12:30]] Please continue your work. The deadlines are very important, and I like to respect the deadlines. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Rajko Baralić, then the replica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1119	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking 20 minutes ago, Mr. Rajko Djuric has violated the provisions of article 101 and reporting by article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Djuric here has different observations on various issues, reads essays he wrote on these or those questions. Mr. Djuric, don't act like a trust fund of the conscience of humanity, you're not. Don't cluck lustration, Mr. Djuric, because at a time when you became journalist of Tanjuga and deputy editor-in-chief of Tanjug, to become one, a five-step UDBE check was necessary. Don't let it happen to you, Mr. Guric, to self-lustrate. It doesn't make any sense what you're saying. In 2002, Mr Đurić, when your friends from DOS were in power, a brilliant young woman from Cačka, Roma, Tanja Mitrovica, applied for Judge of the Municipal Court in Cačka. She's the only one voted for by SPS MPs, Mr. Djuric. There are various issues that can be discussed in different ways. I do not dispute the right for you to address your constituents, but our own have not apologized to you. You are selected on the basis of one criterion in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which is called positive discrimination, and whenever it has a positive one has a negative one. A few hundred people voted for you and therefore you are a national MP and, of course, it is your right, it is no less than those chosen by a million and a half votes, but I really ask you, about morality, about the sermons, about what you've been saying here, leave it for another opportunity and for another time. Don't talk about lustration. I can blame you for the different small servants who sent you here because it's not easy to be in the service. Officers are your domain, you have to work hard, you can fight for your personal dignity by not having a boss. Now you have a boss who'll show up here on the balcony tomorrow, when we choose the government, we'll watch him on the balcony. You spoke to us many times in ways we didn't deserve. We have nothing in common. You have your own political problems, we have our own political agenda, but in our political programme, there are all those issues and all the political goals that you stand for. Have a good day's work. Thank you for asking, the SPS is very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1120	Thank you Rajka Baralic. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask Mr Petrovic to stop causing fear among Serbian citizens, since I am no longer the president of the assembly. If he could at a time when I was president to say it was a danger to Serbia, he should not now say that Serbia was in danger while I was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Petrovic, the only danger that existed because I am the president of the assembly was to immediately convene a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the moment of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. If that's a danger to you, then you'll tell me why it was a danger. The only consequence of my having the right to convene a session of the National Assembly, which is why you insisted that I be removed, would be that I immediately convene a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If that danger has been removed, it means that you planned that we do not have a session of the National Assembly at the moment of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. No other danger, though your propaganda headquarters invented a hundred dangers because the MPs voted mostly and chose who would lead this session. If that danger exists, I guess I'm a little less a member of the old regime than Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. That danger is even greater to you now. If there was a disturbance that G17 plus enters the hall while Tomislav Nikolic presides, there is no danger of entering the hall while Milutin Mrkonjic presides. Because if you compare me, I may have been with Slobodan Milosevic ten times in my life, and I think Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is proud of being at least a hundred times... (President: I'm proud, Comrade Tomo. ) Thank you very much. I didn't expect you to betray it. So, the danger wasn't and you know it very well, the dangers will be from tomorrow at midnight, since you took over Serbia. Mr. Djuric, just one thing to say. I feel Roma because in your mother tongue, which I happily served as a child, since I was surrounded by Roma, that means man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1122	Thank you. Mr. Vlado Sekulić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sekuli.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 101. The Rules of Procedure, whose injury Mr. Djuric made. I would like to remind Mr. Djuric, I come from the territory of New Belgrade, where the Roma population is the most represented at Ledin and the Old Fair. If the SRS is winning somewhere, it's in the polling stations of Ledine and the Old Fair, where we must be the strongest party and now it's a little illogical to accuse the SRS of having something against the Roma. There at the Old Fair and the Ledines no one knows about you. By the way, I'm head of the committee group at SO New Belgrade. And Mrs. Susana Grubjesic is here and I always fight for the problem of the Old Fair and Ledin and the Roma population, to provide them with a better life. Nobody knows you there, and you can tell by the results. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1124	Thank you very much. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I still can't remember all the MPs, so I don't know the name. Mr. Simonovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand Mr. Djuric trying to impose himself as leader of a Roma organisation, but I don't understand that he's doing it with fraud and lies. What Rajko Djuric is trying to do is separate the inseparable, which is that whenever it was difficult for the Serbian state and the Serb people, it was also for the Roma people. And it's approximately, similar and very close. There's no need to show yourself that way, how you're the one who's practically trying to protect the Roma from calling some radical problems. Mr. Djuric, you need to answer a few questions here. First, why did you take the people of the Roma population to the territory of the Municipality of Grock, say, 15 days before the election, ID cards, allegedly to make war damages to Germany, and on the day of the election, you came with these ID cards to vote for you. During that time, Mr. Djuric, I, as president of the OO SRS, built a plumbing and sewerage for all those settlements where you went to pray for a voice. You cannot protect the interests of the national minority of Roma in this way. You need practical, not declarative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1126	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic. Mr. Damjanović, Mr. Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, just to take care of the weather, we're working until 1400 hours and you need to talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the world and Europe, there are not three Roma MPs anywhere to be in parliament. I know that for a fact. The only parliament in the world is this Serbian parliament where we have three MPs who are by the nationality of Roma. I wonder, one Roma came upon a proposal from his party, which is called the SRS, for a minister in this country and the whole world knows, which I said last time, who was allowed as a minister, thanks to the SRS, to make a great contribution to his people in this country. I was almost at an international gathering in Bulgaria and they asked me if I was elected to this home again. I said yes, I was elected to the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. They asked me about the SRS programme and what Dr Vojislav Seselj and his colleague thought of the Roma. I said the SRS has no difference between the Serb people and the Roma people, as well as for other national minorities. It respects everything, and it is the first party to integrate Roma and all other national minorities into politics, and that is why they are present today in this Parliament. Roma politicians, parliamentarians and ministers from the Balkans and Europe want to come and visit the SRS and its deputy president and college, as well as talk to them. They probably see who thinks about the Roma. As far as democracy is concerned, we had Roma television, all the political parties were on TV, thanks to again, whoever is talking about Slobodan Milosevic, on behalf of the Roma community, we thank him because he approved the Roma community to have Roma television. Now that it's the greatest form of democracy, the Democrats have shut down Roma television. We had two Roma TVs. I didn't have the money to pay for my stay, the other one had the money to pay and his TV works, because the Constitution and the law don't apply to everything equally, but we have double standards. He who has money can and does not have money. I see here you talk a lot about Milosevic and blame Milosevic. Milosevic hasn't been in this country in seven years. Milosevic was executed for telling the truth and defending this Serbia and for that reason being executed. I mean, for your results you haven't achieved, you shouldn't blame the man who died. Let Milosevic rest in peace where he is. Mr. Djuric, we know everything about you. The Roma Federation of Serbia will organise a congress soon in this country, not to blame the Serbian state, but to tell the truth that civil minority rights of all peoples and peoples are respected in the Serbian state. At the convention, we'll get all the documentation about how you stole the millions of people in Europe and the world. You're the one who took two and a half billion in damages, but I don't want to talk about it right now. But when we have the data, then, here, I will bring it to this House. You should thank this Serbian and Serbian majority people for allowing you to come to this parliament. Do you know how many citizens are behind the SRS? You call us fascists, murderers. I am telling the truth under criminal and material responsibility that everything the SRS has done for these 10-11 years, as far as I am a member of the SRS has done for all the peoples and peoples in this country, and what it has done for the Roma, thank them very much, because they have done so much. It's been given 1,200,000 marks. I was born in that area, we never had plumbing, sewers and infrastructure. There could have been a variety of illnesses, because they were toilets and you know how... )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1128	Time, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1129	Dr. Vojislav Seselj and the SRS did it all. Today, a road is being built and a water line is being built for the Roma in Surdulica, where the head of the SRS municipality is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1130	Time, Mr. Damjanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1131	Here, I'm done. Just let me, you, Mr. Djuric, ask for Roma's arrest and to go to The Hague. I don't know what network you're from, you're not Carla del Ponte, you're not The Hague tribunal. These Roma, if they did anything, we have judicial authorities, we have justice. They'll answer here. Who are you to ask them to go to The Hague? It's Ljuan Koka and it's Rahim Ljubic, who you asked to go to The Hague, and you work with them today, you take the money you write for his paper, then you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1132	Thank you, Mr. John. We'll proceed to the second point...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1133	Mr. Vice President, please, just this one more. Look what Đuric writes. This is not Germany, this is not Hitlerism, this is not Pavelic's state, this is a Serbian state and a democratic state. Mr. Rajko, if you haven't had your therapy, drink so you don't get a heart attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1134	Don't, John, insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1135	"They are those who, because of their selfish, inhuman interests, would be able to sharpen the knives on the Serbs, slaughter the Roma and who are ready to slaughter our children." That's how you write about one party that gave, for the first time, in the history of world integration into politics. Second, please... "Just as individuals in the days of Hitler in Auschwitz, at the time of Usta Pavelic's Usta, in Jasenovac, one of them is Jovan Damjanovic, Roma from Zemun, who is a candidate for an MP on the list of SRS, whose members in various towns of Serbia, are singing near – we will kill, we will slaughter whoever is with us." That's who you are, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1136	No more, thank you very much, you'll have a chance while I'm chairman, you'll get another chance. Mr. Momchilov, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have three minutes to speak, right, but I'll see to it that I'm shorter. Of course, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 104, where Mr. Djuric allowed himself to insult this assembly in a violent way. What's interesting and what I want to say when someone here starts with a quote -- why they rebel with barbarians, and then finally appoints those barbarians, I think it's an absolute insult to this parliament. You may laugh all you want, but I am obliged to give you two advice as a man who first entered parliament. Please understand that this is not a virtual tribune. This is the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. That's number one. I don't mind the quotes, against a bunch of quotes, but if they're involved and placed in the right place. On the other hand, this isn't a theater. Here with a lot of pathos, with a lot of theater, you expose what you're exhibiting, and the content of it turns out to be very pathetic. I would understand if all of your pathos and all of your theatrical exposure were to be used to state exactly the difficult state in which your countrymen live, if we were told here how to live in the favelas under the gazelle, then I would understand it, but what you do, what you do, what you want, is extremely unfair. Please refrain as long as possible. Now I'm saying this as one serious man, if you can understand yourself in this House. Please, be careful how you speak and what you say, and especially do not selectively insult the MPs of this Parliament, especially the most numerous group. You can do that, but the beating has two ends, and for you, that beating is very heavy!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1138	Mr. Anastasovski, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. And, please, let's end it in order to give word to the debaters.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the Palilu municipality that has, I think, one of the largest Roma settlements. I went out to replicate to Mr Đurić, because I had a better right to talk about the Roma population, because in Palil, the Roma population voted, and most of the votes were cast by the SRS – we received more votes on Palilul than Mr Đuric received in total. Mr. Guric, the Roma are the people and you should represent them here, because that's how you pretend to be. However, it seems to me that you here represent only yourself, your interests and your own pocket, so you have no right to speak for the Roma, because so far at least in the name of them you have spoken for this speaker. There's no need to pose falsely, because you know who you work for, who pays you, and this is now in the Assembly, by the way, just so you have a allowance, so leave the Roma population to those people they vote for, and those people they consider their representatives. You yourself know that you were not allowed into some Roma settlements, and you represent yourself as a representative of the Roma. Don't do that again, and leave the SRS to do its job, because it's doing great. You see how much this right hand side is represented: we have both Roma and all nationalities, and we are the real representatives of all the peoples who live in this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1140	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, and be prepared for discussion by Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1141	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this law bears the wrong name. It is more like the law on field gigs or flea market laws, possibly, of the Ministerial Federation or of the Latifundi law. So, if it is proposed by future ministries, then the future government will not be created or tailored to the needs of the state and citizens, but according to the needs of individual political parties, individuals and worse still, the tycoon, the oligarch, the real lords of Serbia. They are the creators of this government. They were scared, they were terrified, they insisted, they spent a lot of energy, time, and money to make a government like this after and after. She's massive, inefficient, dysfunctional. Of course, within it, and we'll see about it tomorrow, it wasn't about expertise and competence at all, about what a cabinet should be doing in the interests of the state and the citizens. It's nothing to do with this kind of thing. I must tell you that I am honored and proud to be the minister of justice in the first democratic government in 60 years, the government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. There is one more thing I want to tell you, out of the 17 ministers in that government: nine were outsiders, and after the death and tragic death of Zoran Djindjic, some of them joined the DS. Until then, they were really extra-terrestrial personalities. All of this, of course, is to the detriment of the Serbian citizens who will pay the rally and the bulky cabinet out of their pockets, out of their exhausted wallets in the form of customs, taxes, excise duties, taxis, because, I repeat, it is not the interest of citizens and the state of Serbia, but of some irresponsible individuals. It is already mentioned that neighbouring countries, some of which are members of the European Union, Bulgaria – 17 ministers, Croatia that has income from tourism, as we see here new experts for tourism, have 12 ministers, Montenegro – 13 and that house at the door of the European Union, from which we are far away and the future government of Serbia – 22 ministries. When we look at what it means to bid, party and party, the best example for this is what is designed as a future economy ministry, and what is said to be true, the economy ministry and regional development. It has united the former economy ministry, the ministry of economic relations with abroad, tourism, and employment, and there is much more to it. The work of the future economy and regional development ministry is described on the two sides. I have one proposal: I think that from the former Ministry of Justice to this Ministry of Economy and Regional Development should be attached to the administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, for the supervision of prisons, for the future arrangement of prisons, because there is always a need to think futuristically, always to look to the future. And when it comes to privatisation, some banks should have been named "Delta Banka", "Cyprus Popular" banka, "HVB Banka", "Centrobanka", that is, today's "Laiki Banka", "Euroaxis" banka, "National Savings Banka", and there will be material for work and work on a surplus. On the other hand, due to these settlements, the diaspora ministry has been explained in three rows and is doing so. I would also suggest that it be introduced as a special ministry - the Ministry of Relations with tycoons, what is done illegally, should now be legalised, so that it is known who actually manages this country. One more thing, the people of this so-called. "national coalitions" or so-called "national coalitions". "Legalisati" is often referred to as Slobodan Jovanovic. Well, Slobodan Jovanovic said that the government, or cabinet of ministers, should be homogeneous, compact, harmonic, solidarity, and here no one can see, here people's feet don't think well and they'll, like, make one future, and it's not true. It is not true that, for God's sake, the citizens of Serbia are relieved. It may be from some of your optics, from some of your prisms, from some of your projections. Serbian citizens are full of chills, confused, disappointed, concerned about the lack of responsibility and because they will have again the government of "silent Radovan".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1142	I thank Mr Batic, for bringing him together in the Rules of Procedure and the discussion. The word is made by Miss Aleksandra Jerkov, and may Mr Vidoje Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak after an hour and a half. Mr Vice-President, you have asked some of the more experienced MPs to help you conduct the session, and I hope you will accept my suggestion, although I am not an experienced MP, namely, to respect article 100, where it is said that the MP who reports on the breach of the Rules of Procedure must say which provision of the Rules of Procedure has a maximum of three minutes, so I ask you to respect it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1144	Thank you very much, Alexander. From this moment on, I will respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1145	So, I'm going to talk about the law that's in front of us. It is fully in line with the way that the DSS and DS in this assembly in the past few days imposes on us, which in fact encourages, out of their inability to agree on anything in the past three months, that the other parties of the democratic bloc would now force and in general force Serbian citizens and impose half and unsatisfactory solutions on them, under the pretext that we should all support it, and that it will be against those who are against the formation of a democratic government, against the European future of the country in general, against democracy in general. Other parties to the democratic bloc, even those who did not participate in government talks, are expected to unconditionally support these poor and half-way solutions and thus ignore all the obvious shortcomings they have, to abandon their principles and to betray the interests of the citizens who voted for them, and all under the pretext that the situation is so urgent that this or that must be done. The Vojvodian MPs' group is not to blame for the urgency of the situation. We will not abandon the interests of the citizens who voted for us and we want to justify the trust of the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia that they have shown us. We want to fight for their rights, and that's why we're not ready to support the wrong proposals, because you put us in such a position that something has to be decided now and immediately. The law that the DSS, DS and G17 plus have proposed is bad, not in line with European standards, it is superficial, anachron and it sees more about your need to share more and more effectively meet party appetites, but really to meet the needs and interests of Serbian citizens, to regulate the way the state works and functions in the right way. It is even bad to the extent that, like the previous Constitution, which you have all adopted together, it is linguistically irregular and full of grammatical and logical irregularities that are inadmissible and show how much neglect you have invested in making it. The Voivodjan Group of MPs of LSV submitted several amendments, which you will have the opportunity to hear in the debate when the debate takes place in particular. We believe that these amendments will bring this law to a European level, to the level of respect for human rights and freedom and respect for all the differences that exist in our country, as well as to fulfil the obligations and preparation for the great work that our country has in the integration of the European Union, which is ahead of it. Depending on whether our amendments will be accepted, we will decide whether we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1146	The People's Messenger Vidoje Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Riza Halimi be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1147	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the past five days have not been easy to be an MP. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia had the opportunity to listen and evaluate us, and we spent the last five days the way we did. Now we're minors at the beginning. We had the president of the assembly, but you saw yesterday that the president of the assembly resigned. We, together with the citizens, have experienced a kind of embarrassment, and the creators of this kind of confusion I think will be recognized by the citizens and will certainly be punished in the next election. We have the presence of acting out the will of the citizens. The SPS in the past five days has been constructive and has been intent on establishing institutions. We expected this in three to four months, but the parties' democratic options failed. When the proposal came for a new president, we saw reactions, maltenes and the crying of certain political parties, who wanted to form the government as soon as possible. The SPS was constructive and showed constructiveness all the time attending this session. Also, the SPS will be constructive when it comes to the ministry law, but you heard from our deputy parliamentary group that the SPS will not vote for the ministry law. Why? This bill was prepared in a hurry, after a quick deal between the so-called. a democratic bloc party, offered a law on ministries that was adapted in its own way to resolving only personal interests within the so-called parties. a democratic bloc. We have received projected proposals, and I hope that the proposed prime minister will certainly have a chance tomorrow to give us the names and names of the government's composition and we can freely say that the future government will be a party government. We've all noticed that, and we can be sure of that. Why won't the SPS vote for this ministry law? Not for one simple reason, because this law is not at the will of the citizens, because this law is not rational, it is not efficient, and even more because in the previous term of the previous government we had 17 ministries, and now we have 22, which means that the government will count 25 people, and the special organizations we had 10, and now we have 14. I come from a community of 20,000 people, the Municipality of Love, and I want to point out why the government will not be rational, and also why it will be party. The previous government was a party, and I personally think that many who sit here will share the opinion that the next government will also be party. The SPS has given one number of amendments and one refers to the Ministry of Defence. We haven't seen it here, and in the Department of Defense one of the broader segments of training and preparation of the population is civil protection. She's nowhere to be found. We have special organizations at the Mine Action Center. I ask the question, if we don't already have it within the Ministry's law, where will the widest form of civil protection system be found? Are you at the Department of Defense? Is it going to be in another ministry, is it perhaps going to be entrusted to local self-government? What I particularly want to say is that these days there have been stories that the Serbian budget should focus more resources on the military, or the Ministry of Defence. I didn't realize the intention of war. Here was the intention of the debaters to transform us into an army of defense systems, we move faster than it was done in this period. And I just want to say that the ministers have brought the army into this situation, our defence system as a constituent element of the state, I'm going to list them in order, first of all, that's Tadic, Davinic and the current defence minister, and we see what kind of situation the military is in today. What I particularly want to say is, the ministry law is needed to be passed. As each government is established, the ministry law is in principle passed, but no one after that refers to the system of the ministry's organisation in depth. As part of the Ministry of Defence, we have a problem achieving the rights and obligations of citizens when it comes to military obligations. I think there are about 40 and maybe 50 municipalities that don't have an organisational unit in their headquarters, the place of residence of citizens, but that their rights must go, say, from Love, in Valjevo or otherwise one of the workers from the Valjevo military department comes to Love. I think it's the need in the future government and whoever is designed for the minister, and we see that it's Mr. Sutanovac, to take special care of it when it comes to new job systems. One of the specific questions is the Ministry of Finance issue. I want to say why I said the government passed, and I believe this one will be political, too. The previous minister, Mr Dinkic, at the time of the adoption of the VAT refund law, I must point out one fact, and if so, then small municipalities will surely have problems, it is the following: Mr Dinkic is always in municipalities where G17 representatives are in power, namely, much more funds have been allocated, than is the case with other representatives belonging to other political groups. I'll list Mr. Albianic laughing, but, let's say, Loznica and Frog. The password is more than the Sabbath, and compare, let's say, how much is the Loznica, and how much is the Sabbath. When it comes to the state administration, I have a special remark. I personally believe, and I call on the future minister, and it is projected, Mr. Knezevic, that the minister, or his associates or assistants, must contribute more to their way of working, reducing tensions in local political relations. I think that in some cases, and also in Ljubljana, inconsistencies with incomplete documentation are given some arguments, warnings, etc., when it comes to the assembly majority, they have caused some problems, they have come across the condemnation of a wider number of citizens, and so have some MPs sitting here today in this House. I think our goal is to avoid the introduction of temporary measures in the local environments, because the goal is to have one stability in Serbia. If we have stability in the municipalities, we will have a secure and stable Serbia. I call on the future minister to take a broader look at the overall situation when it comes to the congregation's majority and, above all, to introduce temporary measures. I want to say that in Ljubljana, there was plenty in the paper, calmed down the situation, that we chose the president of the Assembly to normally all institutions function and work, and I have a comment on the resolution ministry, as was the case. He wanted to be one-sided, based on one-sided documentation to make some kind of decision and I warn that future work is still more concrete. When it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I welcome the idea that the Water Directorate should remain within the framework of the ministry, although it was thought differently. But I want to say one thing. In the case of criteria for the identification of municipalities belonging to the category of devasted municipalities, i.e. undeveloped areas, citizens of the Municipality of Ljubovija, businessmen, businesses, institutions, they believe that the Municipality of Love should not belong to the category of developed municipalities, for one simple reason, because it cannot use certain benefits in terms of the use of incentive funds, funds from the Development Fund. So, special organizations, such as the Department of Statistics, should give better and more precise data related to the classification of municipalities in the categories developed or not developed. I hope that the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy, where tourism is intertwined and intertwined, and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, will probably fight who will have more powers in this Republic, will take care of regional development of all communities, including these small municipalities, in order to avoid the outflow of the population, i.e. to avoid the reduction and departure of personnel that can contribute to smaller municipalities, the type of Love, and certainly those that belong to another category. The Ministry of Education, I would like to point out and call on the Minister to take care of development, especially small municipalities. We have a case where a new school was worked intensively in the municipality of Ljubovija from 2000 to 2003. From 2003 to today, we have not received only 3,000,000 for construction. I object to Mr. Minister's activities and call on the future minister to remove this stalemate when it comes to continuing the construction of the school. In order not to take time, I want to say one more time and realize that the SPS for reasons of its position that the future government will be irrational, inefficient, that it will be political, will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1148	I remind the MPs again, especially Mr Albianic, who is very nervous. Mr. Jovanovic is discussing from the SPS's time fund. The Socialists only have seven minutes left. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that this bill is unacceptable for the Alliance of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. The main reason is, by definition, non-inclusion or in general a definitive exclusion of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We know how much I remember in 2002, when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia adopted the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Minority Rights, with us introduced the minority ministry, then the Law on the Protection of Minority Rights was adopted. A minority rights service was introduced when the federal ministry, the government of Serbia-Montenegro, was shut down, and the process of eliminating the ministry was initiated, and this is definitely being abolished. I think the practice shows that this move is unacceptable, it's not rational, I don't see any reason for the ministry to be reduced to the level of service for this activity. Anyway, at the time in which the service takes place, it did not absolutely show the possibility, the capacity, to deal with this problem. The whole document, I think I looked at it, has two or three sentences dealing with minority problems. This is, as far as I can see, in Article 8, which mentions the general issues of the position of members of national minorities and the keeping of registers of national councils of national minorities, and also in Article 23 mentions – the protection of religious components in the cultural and ethnic identity of national minorities. What is given by the Constitution is that the state will guarantee special protection to national minorities in order to achieve full equality and to preserve their identity, or in the position of Article 20, where it says: to achieve the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced – if we do not reduce this ministry by eliminating the level of protection of minority rights, or maybe we pretend that in these 3-4 years we have solved all problems. In my view, this all looks like the fate of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, formed in some sensitive time: to give some deadlines – they were not achieved, and there was never an analysis, which of these plotted lenses was achieved by the two governments and what was not. He's just keeping his mouth shut. It's on paper. However, it exists as the Coordination Body, but it doesn't work, and it's being abolished here, and we don't have any analysis of what we've actually been doing these 3-4 years. Which is where we fix the situation in this area, and there are some serious problems. Vojvodina probably has a different specificity, because there are still organs at the level of Vojvodina Autonomy that solve minority rights. What do we do with other areas where there are no such instruments? I'm not suggesting that there are no problems in Vojvodina either. There are people here a little closer to talking about it. I don't think it's good that it went to that. There was no time, there were no arguments, and there are jobs on the ground, and there are also in the ministries of education and culture, as well as in other areas that are specific, in which minorities need to exercise collective rights by existing law, which is quite inefficient, unconcrete. They are guaranteed as in the Constitution of law, but they do not move further into concreteisation. And if there's no legal regulations, then constitutional provision, anyway general, there's no way to implement it in practice. Now it's essential what and what instruments we have left to achieve minority rights, according to the last 2002 census, 18% of the citizens of this country. As for Article 24 on the Ministry of Kosovo today, I will not say anything, so as not to challenge in such short time that we have at our disposal a general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1150	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Replica, Mr. Wolfie. Let's get Mrs. Witch Radeta ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1151	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike most MPs, I listened carefully to what Mr. Halimi said. Everything was fine, Mr. Halimi, until you started dating numbers. What do you mean, 18%? Do Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija have about 100,000 or do you not already count Kosovo as part of Serbia?- I'm sorry. I'm good with numbers, I've always counted well, and you have to explain to me that it's 18% of national minorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'd find it interesting if you told me that. I find it even more interesting to know that no one reacts and that everyone is silent, and that, about, there, that is European integration. I suppose you're for European integration, Euro-Atlantic, I knew right away. I don't know what "Atlantic integration" means to you, do we all have to jump to the Atlantic or what?- I'm sorry. I understand you're for Euro-Atlantic integration. I'm just asking you to answer me, with the utmost respect for Albanians in Serbia's territory, and for those in Kosovo and Metohija and those in Presevo or Bujanovac municipality, I don't know why they put Medvedju in the same basket, because there's no connection since there's no absolute in Medvedja, but the qualified majority of Serbs, not Albanians, but someone already wanted to know what to do with the whole end, is in Bujanovac, approximately, for the shade of more Albanians, and what Covic later wrote, which is and what isn't true, but I didn't understand the whole story, so that you could add those numbers to us again and tell us here how you got to those numbers? And I didn't understand under that Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, is that what you're saying, like some political friends of yours here in Serbia, that Kosovo and Metohija is not Serbia?- I'm sorry. Do you think, like Boris Tadic, that Serbia should go into Euro-Atlantic integration without Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. These are the things we're interested in. I must remind you, Mr. Halimi, that you have violated not only the principles of the Constitution, which speak of elementary matters. You have violated the basic members of the Constitution that speak of sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. From the assembly booth, each MP has the right to say whatever he wants and he does not bear the criminal responsibility for what he says from the assembly pay phone. It's an elementary democratic principle that is recognised everywhere in the world. You, Mr. Halimi, can say what you want, but do not interfere with the mind when your compatriots remove the Serbian flag from the Bujanovac municipality and when it is done in Presevo or anywhere else at that time the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been trampled. At that moment, that flag of Serbia must return to the building of any municipality, whether you like it or not. Mr. Halimi, since I have great respect for members of the national minorities, I express my absolute satisfaction with your participation in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I only ask that you do not reduce the number of minority members. Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija have much more than 80 to 100 thousand, as you have calculated. I am sure you will support the proposal, or amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, which introduces the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights, and do not throw us out in your Euro-Atlantic integrations of Kosovo and Metohoi from Serbia in the future. Don't threaten us in any way, even indirectly, with any new developments in something you called the Presevo Valley, because there's no such thing as a geographical concept. Don't think of a new name for something where you could cause tension, or anyone else, I don't mean personally. We need peace, we need security for all citizens, and for all Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. All of them will be well cared for by the state of Serbia. They'll all feel good and we'll take care of them all. We'll build them a minority and human rights ministry. Albanians will also have every right to comply with international public-legal norms. That's the policy you're supposed to stand for. And this, to introduce Kosovo's independence to our little door, because you think they're stupid MPs of the Serbian Parliament so they won't notice what you said indirectly, because you're very cunning Mr. Halimi, there's us who can't do anything else but have to listen to you. I couldn't listen to what Mr. Petrovic said today, what he or he said. I know they won't say anything smart. I hear you from both ears, and I'm also whispering what you're saying. However you turn, Mr. Halimi, I ask you not to destroy the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you have been elected as a member of the People's Parliament and do not, Mr Halimi, destroy the state of Serbia. It is not your job, you were a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and you will be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, equal to Serbs and all other citizens of this country, I guarantee it. And you won't be a citizen of another country, even though you might wish for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1152	Mrs. Radeta has a word. He can't rephrase it, that's what I learned, Mr. Halimi, but you can do it by the Rules of Procedure when the Veronica's done. Here you go, Veronica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1153	Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to comment on the proposal for a law on ministries in one sentence, then I would say - what kind of law, such a government, or what kind of government, such a law. This means that we from the Serbian Radical Party know that a very bad pest government will be formed tomorrow, and that this government should be subject to such a bad law, which we are discussing here today. The SRS MPs have submitted more than 40 amendments to the bill and since this is the first time this Parliament has called on a bill to be discussed, and some insinuations have already been heard that some good MPs will not submit amendments in order not to obstruct parliament's work, I will say the following. We from the Serbian Radical Party will always submit amendments, as we have so far. That's what we expect from other colleagues, if they have objections to the law to make it through the amendments, not to go out for a pay phone and say what's not good, and yet they won't submit the amendments, because it's obstruction. No, it is not an obstruction, but it is the right and obligation of the MP and the parliamentary group to submit amendments, to explain the amendments and, of course, to ask colleagues to vote in favour of these amendments. We'll talk about the amendments tomorrow, and this was just one principled remark. What is characteristic of the proposal for this law on ministries, and what is not particularly good, is the fact that at least three provisions of this law do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will pass through this law and I will say, at least those most characteristic members I will briefly comment on and present the views of the Serbian Radical Party, in this way on the bill. With regard to Article 2, which speaks of which ministries are proposed in this new law, we have a lot of amendments. One part of the amendment refers to a change in the name of some ministries, as you in this proposal have unnecessarily changed the names of the ministries so far, and you have not changed the competences. I guess, by the name of the ministry, it should be bombing and sound, so when someone gets a ministry there, not to be a telecommunications ministry, but to be the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, that the minister himself would look smarter in front of the mirror, and Serbian citizens know perfectly what all these people who are going to be elected ministers tomorrow. It is also characteristic that you did not foresee within the Ministry of Culture, nor within any other ministry, rather than as a special ministry, the Ministry of Information. In our parliamentary group, we've been thinking, should we suggest the formation of this special ministry? We think that's good, but we've been counting, since you've increased the number of ministries, it's not good to burden the state administration with a new administration, a future government and the ministry, and yet we've suggested that, at least within the culture ministry, it's called the Ministry of Culture and Information. We have suggested this, because it is amazing for us that the future government, that is, the assembly majority that has proposed this law, thinks it is good to have such media darkness in Serbia and that it is a good thing that in Serbia today, individual parties and tycoons are in charge of the media. It should not be regulated by law, for by law, perhaps one day, someone would have to answer for something. We also suggested that the diaspora ministry be called the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. That is absolutely in accordance with Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You will see through the amendment, colleagues who explain this amendment will say that I am now not wasting my time on what the proposal means. In the meantime, you who are lawyers from other parliamentary groups look and make sure that our amendment is absolutely in line with the Constitution, unlike your proposal. Also, we have proposed a ministry of integration with Eastern European, Slovenian and Orthodox countries. We think that this is very important, given the moment and the situation, for the parent situation in which Serbia is located and that it needs a special ministry to deal with these integrations, rather than just those you talk about, European or what you call them in recent times Euro-Atlantic integration. The ministry of human and minority rights has been left out of this proposal by the assembly majority and we in the Serbian Radical Party think it is very bad, not because we think national minorities have problems in Serbia. On the contrary, we know they have no problem respecting human and minority rights in Serbia, but we think a ministry like this is necessary to exist in Serbia. I am pleased to hear today the representatives of almost all national minorities in this House, from the newly formed assembly majority, agreeing with our proposal. Of course, I expect that all fellow members of the national minorities, regardless of which party they belong, will vote in favour of this amendment, not to appear with some amendment on the formation of someone, only, the councils, as they would already be called, who would be in charge of national minorities. Later, after the adoption of this law, one will be able to use one of the regime's TVs again and say that Serbian radicals did not vote for such an amendment. For this reason, I now urge all MPs, especially representatives of national minorities, to vote in favour of the Serbian Radical Party amendment, to have a ministry of human and minority rights within the future government of the Republic of Serbia. With regard to Article 3. The bill, which refers to the work of the foreign affairs ministry, I would say next. I ask, I will ask and we will ask Vojislav Kostunica tomorrow, how he had until today Vuk Draskovic as foreign minister, when he had neither under the law provided for the ministry, at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and when, even worse, Vuk Draskovic was never elected minister. In the workaround of this ministry, you left out something, in the SRS' view, extremely important. You have here, among other things, said the ministry will deal with the protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and legal persons abroad. It's okay. But it is unacceptable that you have not added here – that this ministry will especially take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia imprisoned in The Hague casamat. So far, you have shown little will or intention to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in The Hague, so Serbian Radicals President Vojislav Seselj, in order to fight for his fundamental human rights, had to question his life, to starve the election in The Hague tribunal for what the state of Serbia was supposed to fight for. Of course, you didn't react at the time, and I can see even in this law you have no intention of taking care of every citizen of yours. Don't ever show up again and say that you are the Democrats who take care of every citizen of the Serbian state. Don't lead, and we'll talk about it regularly and in every place. The Ministry of Defence is doing certain tasks, it is Article 4, and I also have a question here: how did Zoran Stankovic do the job of the Ministry of Defence, on whose behalf, which parliament chose him, under what law did he do the duty?- I'm sorry. And it will have to tomorrow, Vojislav Kostunica, to answer us. Here, I'm calling him today to think that he might have some smart answer, and at least convincingly, to offer to the MPs. The Ministry of Defence in the description of your affairs, of course, has left out something very important for the SRS, which is to protect the security of the state border and the movement and stay in the border belt. It is true that you, in accordance with the policy imposed on you by your friends, have foreseen for the MUP, but here I am expressing the position of the SRS relating to the Ministry of Defence and, of course, through the explanation of its amendment, General Delic will tell you more about this tomorrow. The MUP and its work cycle are described in Article 5. It's a bill of law. And here you left out two very important segments that you left completely unregulated in any regulation, or in any ministry. You didn't write anywhere that this ministry is responsible for the procurement, carrying and holding of weapons and ammunition. Is that what you plan to do from tomorrow at midnight, when we form a new government, that you will sell weapons and ammunition on the streets and that you will be able to buy it, like, everyone on the newsstand as they come to mind and carry wherever they want and how they want? You have greatly compromised the security of the country, ladies and gentlemen of the newly formed majority assembly, and it is obvious that you have no intention, either through this law or with the new government, to do anything to repair the situation in that area. Also, you did not foresee in this law, i.e. under the MUP, the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and the detection and prevention of actions aimed at undermining or destroying the Constitution of established order. It's just amazing that you didn't predict something like this for any ministry, who you think will guard the constitutional order and whether at all Vojislav Kostunica is ready after a new cohabitation and coalition with Boris Tadic to guard the constitutional order or, like Tadic, to accept tomorrow, don't give God, the secession of Kosovo and Metohija and to say -- well, no ministry is in charge of preserving constitutional order, and there's nothing we can do about it now. That is why we have proposed an amendment, and let us see how the congregation majority will react when this amendment is voted on. Also, in no ministry did you provide for a register of citizens' associations. Every day, different groups of citizens are registered in the register and, of course, it is a total democratic right, I have nothing against, or groups of citizens appear. Now you didn't predict who would register them. However, if a group of citizens is registered, there must be a law on which to register, to meet certain conditions, and we, within any ministry, this future one, do not have this activity. When it comes to the Ministry of Finance, that's where we also had the amendment. First of all, we wanted to delete from this description of the ministry a funny word that can't be used in this context at all. You said, among other things, that this ministry is doing affairs relating to the "quantification of the measure of economic policy". Since quantification means putting in place, I'm asking you now: what does this mean to you that the ministry is going to run the affairs of measuring the measures of economic policy? This is completely pointless, but it's a fundamental amendment, the one we've also submitted to this article. The amendment refers to the fact that it is necessary to say for, 'coordination of activities in the field of planning, security and use of donations, European funds and other forms of development assistance abroad', to write, instead of 'coordination of activities', 'and supervision and coordination', because it is necessary to monitor these donations in a certain way and in terms of spending, especially in terms of obtaining. Because we've been witnessing for the past seven years that very often because of some insignificant donations, we've had to do something we probably wouldn't have done. So, in order to prevent abuse, blackmail, conditioning, it's necessary to make this a ministry to oversee donations. In the description of the Justice Ministry, very interestingly, you did not leave out, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Aligrudić is not there again, but simply a poor push to sign a proposal, take off his hulachopke, and the man is gone in the O.R., and now I don't know how to communicate, how to explain this to me, you have predicted, among other things, for the Ministry of Justice, that – is making solutions to handing over the defendants to the International Tribunal for the criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. So, you have not left out what you are saying openly and conditioning further co-operation with The Hague tribunal in this way, but you have therefore left out to oblige the Ministry of Justice to provide legal assistance and collect documentation for the defendants and detained in The Hague tribunal to prepare their defences. We know perfectly well what the communication of state authorities is like based on the experience of the team to prepare for the defence of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Carla del Ponte comes to Serbia, she opens all the archives, she and her people can take out whatever papers she wants, take whatever she wants, and then when we on the team accidentally, indirectly, find out that Carla del Ponte has already received some document, then we ask the Committee for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and then, I guess, forget it, so they don't take off the dates or think we're not careful enough to take care of it! Before, of course, Mr. Rasim Ljajic comes out and announces on all televisions that the state of Serbia is also taking account of the defence team of Vojislav Seselj: it provides all the necessary documentation provided by Karli del Ponte, and then we see the accompanying act that Carla del Ponte received that documentation in November last, and the defence team Vojislav Seselj, on her request, only in March of this year. We therefore insist, ladies and gentlemen, that this law provides for the mandatory provision of legal assistance to persons imprisoned in The Hague tribunal, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that you did not foresee this in the framework of the Ministry of State Administration, and you did not foresee it in the Ministry of Justice, who is in charge at all, and which ministry would be competent to propose those laws to the National Assembly, or laws that we had long been obliged to pass under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by the Constitutional Law. You obviously have no intention of doing that. In the framework of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which also lacks a good name, you have envisioned a whole position relating exclusively to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's competence. This is probably about some of your "trange-frange" relations between future ministers, but we will see tomorrow who Kostunica will propose to us for which ministry, so we will be able to specifically respond to this completely unclear solution in this bill. The Ministry of Mining and Energy is talking about some nuclear power plants in this proposal, and you forget that a strategy for the development of energy, which does not mean, or prohibits the existence of nuclear power plants in Serbia, has been adopted. I really don't understand which, then, energy nuclear systems to worry about this ministry and this minister who has been so far, will appear to be again, and his basic task will be, as so far, costing the power by 15% and has already announced, namely, his opinion that 15 per cent is small, so that citizens know, as soon as a new minister is elected, there will be a new collection. In Article 15, you are talking about the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, among other things, about protecting monuments and mentioning the markings of Serbia's Liberation Wars, and that's fine, but it's amazing that you didn't specify both the country wars and NATO aggression. You did not predict that this ministry would also take care of the monument of small Milice Rakic. May it indeed serve you honor! In Article 17. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, you left out one very important segment, which is – the waste water treatment programme and municipal waste. But as we hear on one television, a certain Dusan Vasiljevic is scheduled for the Minister of Environmental Protection, and for his name I heard in the book of Prof. The sympathies of Abraham, of NGOs. Prof. The sympathies of Abraham mention some of the money this gentleman was getting, but that's what we'll see when we're sure it's him. That's the one, I read in the book of Professors. Avramov! Of course, I haven't included half the members of this law. He'll talk to my other colleagues, but I'm only going to brief this last member of the 58th. It's unconstitutional, ladies and gentlemen, that what you wrote about this law taking effect on the day of its publication in the Official Messenger, because Article 196. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the laws enter into force on the eighth day since the day of publication, 'exceptionally', if there are particularly justified reasons for their adoption. Mr Aligrudic, the proposing representative, did not explain to us whether there are specific reasons, which are specific reasons. So this is one of the unconstitutional provisions. We know that there are special reasons: Javier Solana, Boris Tadic, Olli Rehn, Vojislav Kostunica, and therefore we will not vote for this law, of course, nor for the government that will operate under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1154	I thank Mrs. Verica. The word is Željko Vasiljevic. Before that, Riza Halimi. Rizzo, please, if you can say anything in a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1155	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. The Republic Bureau of Statistics says – the census of the population, households and apartments in 2002, I made few mistakes in percentages: 82.86% of Serbs in Serbia, then I was wrong, and it is true that there is 17.14%, and not 18% of others, which should be minorities. As far as Kosovo is concerned, why should we talk about this, when it is known to be an international protectorate. After all, in Article 24, you have read, there are no Albanians, as this is being taken into account by the international protectorate, civil, military, which are currently in Kosovo. I don't see what the dilemmas are about. As far as Euro-Atlantic integration is concerned, Serbia is in Europe, and we are actually bordering the Atlantic Ocean. What's the misunderstanding? As far as the flag is concerned, since Mr. Nikolic on that show on Pink TV presented the information that you have, in fact, that's what you're talking about, I checked it out. On that day in the Bujanovac Assembly, Serbian radicals asked for the old flag to change new, because both in Presevo and in Bujanovac were held flags, I don't know since when, probably some of the old ones from earlier. About Medvedje, the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley has votes in both Presevo and Bujanovac, and in Medvedja, both in Belgrade and in most municipalities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1156	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's only one thing strange to me, why, when Mr. Halimi comes through a smile in the most brutal way of attacking the state, some people find it funny. Mr. Halimi, what you read with 83% of Serbs, it's without Kosovo and Metohija and you didn't accidentally do it, Mr. Halimi. (Telephones from the bench: It's official. You came here on purpose... Officially? Officially? It is official because Boris Tadic is the president of Serbia, so the census is without Kosovo and Metohija and without counting on all people living in Kosovo and Metohija. And that's our shame, that's true. But it's a shame that you and Reese Halimi admit it. Mr. Halimi, I must introduce you, first of all, to Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 clearly states that the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is part of the territory of the SRJ, or its legal followers. So once and for all, Mr. Halimi, Kosovo and Metohija is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia!- I'm sorry. In Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs, Albanians, Roma, Egyptians, Gorans and many others live, but also in Šumadija live members of many nations, as well as in Vojvodina and in all other parts of Serbia, and will never distinguish them in any way. Mr. Halimi, it's nice to have two, three, as many as you want a councilman, all you need to know is that in that county, so, Vranjski, there's a river of Pchinj, not an ocean, and it's Atlantic. And it has nothing to do with the Atlantic Ocean or the Bujanovac or Presevo. Maybe if we did something to process the water in Pcinja, so we could figure out how to make people take advantage of that water more, there'd be some scales for all citizens, for Serbs and Albanians, and I don't know from the Atlantic what way anyone can, Mr. Halimi. As for your further objections to the flag, where you mentioned Tomislav Nikolic and me, you could have checked whatever you wanted. Three days earlier in Presevo, you brutally removed the Serbian national flag, and in Bujanovac, when there were clear provisions on how the official flag of the Republic of Serbia should look, you deliberately did not want to change the flag and did not want to hang the flag of the Serbian state. Only after the pressure of the SRS parliamentary group, which received more votes than all the other Serbian parties combined, as you know Mr. Halimi, was then again the Serbian flag, the flag of the Serbian state, because don't forget, whatever you want, whatever you dream of, Mr. Halimi, and I would like to see you dream more of a good life, a better life of citizens and Presevo, and Bujanovac, and Bosilegrad, and Belgrade and any other place, both Presevo and Bujanovac and Medvedja, but also Prizren and Pec and Gjilana and Gracanica and Pristina and Kosovo Mitrovica were and will be Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1158	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 225. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. I think MPs should know, some, maybe they don't know, that Mr. Riza Halimi is a member of the Party for Democratic Action, where, among other things, that party belongs to, for example, Shaip Kamberi, the president of the Bujanovac Municipality of Nagip Arifi. It was the party that insisted on voting the declaration that, in the event that Kosovo and Metohija gain independence and three municipalities from the south of Serbia Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja should gain independence. These three municipalities are not connected in any way. The Medvedja municipality belongs to the Jablanic district, and Presevo and Bujanovac belong to the Pcinj County and does not exist as a geographical concept, nor did the concept of Presevo Valley ever exist. The way local self-government is being realized and how it works, how minority rights are exercised where Mr. Riza Halimi's party has ruled, particularly in Bujanovac, since 2002, when Nebojsa Covic handed over power there with numerous manipulations of the voter lists, says the fact that in Serbian communities and Serbian villages you absolutely did nothing. For example, in 2006 of the 52 million dinars invested in the travel network, 50 million dinars were invested in the environment where only Albanians live, and only two million dinars in the middle where Serbs live, but, of course, through companies that you control and through which you launder money. So, you tell the only thing you've done for some village where citizens of Serbian nationality live, so for Lopardins, for Klinovac, for Grahovac, the Serbian house, Osloa, Levosoje, Kleniki, for any village from the Bujanovac municipality. You didn't do anything. What is still very interesting, and what the citizens of Serbia do not know, was held a memorial for liquid terrorists, as you would say members of the so-called. The Preshev Liberation Army, the Bujanovac and the Bear. So, you use the money of the Serbian state, you use the home of culture in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and you honor terrorists who are fighting to destroy Serbia, to destroy the constitutional order and to tear our country apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1160	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Mr Vasiljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, comrade and gentlemen of the presidency, on behalf of the SPS and the Serbian Veterans Movement, I would just like to tell you that we as the SPS will submit a significant number of amendments, first of all, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In my presentation, I will look back at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to introduce you to how many war veterans there are in this Serbia, who all belong to this population. One hundred and fifty thousand, still alive World War II veterans, about 300 thousand of them who took part in the wars after the 1990s. Today in Serbia, you have 62,000 wartime wartime people and members of families of fallen fighters. Indeed, an impressive figure of people, who were willing to offer life for this country, and some of them remained as descendants of those who died in previous wars. Unfortunately, we can see from this bill that what happened in 2000 with this population will happen during and out of this government. It will, unfortunately, be pushed back to the margins of society, and indeed society will show them a dose of irresponsibility and inhumane relations. I must say that Serbia, with great pride, is the fifth country in the world to have the Law on Military Disabilities since 144 years ago, it is indeed, for the country's pride, throughout this period of legislation in this area, that went the upward path, except in the period of dictatorship. In a period when only in Serbia could there be a parable of "All these people will gold". We sang our heroes in epic songs, especially those who died, but when the time came, the peace of state had no understanding of their suffering and their suffering. What's the situation today? I'm just going to paint you up and explain that wartime military people with disabilities in Serbia are "the only military disabled in the world" who pay for their treatment from the consequences of being wounded. Is that normal, gentlemen? I'm sure you'll say it's not. I totally agree with you. However, the proposed law and this way the proposed ministries, in which the name of the 'fighters' or'veterans' has been ousted under the new Constitution, made it clear that this government will treat these people. I must also say to warn this government, and Mr Mihajlov and Mr Kostunica know what I'm talking about, that we are a very combative, well-organised population and that any reduction of our rights or disrespect for the norms of humanism and human rights will be punishable by fiercely protesting on the street, as we have twice had to protest against the Serbian government last year for trying to pass one, indeed, radical law that will reduce 25% of these small rights. That is why I would like to point out one fact, that in April of last year, when there was another major protest, we spoke in the parliamentary groups of the then Parliament, here, Mr Ristic is there, he participated in a conversation of veterans, attended by Mr Petrovic and Milan Markovic, Zoran Alimpic, and we had a firm promise from them that he would indeed not continue with the practice he had in the past seven years. Now I invite them to remember that promise, and if they don't remember, I get the circumstances, I've got it on tape, so I'll be able to let them see what they said back then. I'm sorry that this isn't Mr. Dejan Mihajlov who conducted the negotiations, under the authority of Mr. Kostunica, with us, and he promised us that what happened today would not happen, that the ministry that will take care of 450 to 500 thousand war veterans would not be called the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because, indeed, pushing this population into the social community is inhumane, non-democratic. I mean, it's democratic what's humane. I'm really asking that by tomorrow or until you can make a change, if you can't form a special ministry, and I think it's hard now, to at least make a change to this ministry's name. We will allow you to accept, by submitting a large number of amendments to this article of the law, some of our amendments to accept that they are an integral part of the Government's proposal. In short, I will refer only to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1162	Time, Zeljko.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1163	To be collegiate, we'll talk about it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1164	Thank you, Zeljko. Mr Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica. I ask Mr. Alexander Marton to prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the MPs of the SRS are giving up further discussions in the debate on the draft law on ministries, in principle, to allow the debate on amendments to begin tomorrow in time and the debate on the choice of government and its composition to be concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1166	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has Marton Alexander, so Mrs Vesna Pesic, and previously Mr Cedomir Jovanovic would have ended it. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. So there are only two other debaters left, Mr. Marton and Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1167	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in line with the agreement made during yesterday's consultations on the proposal of the then-President of the Assembly of Tomislav Nikolic, we will refrain from further debate in principle and respect the captain who obliges us to find ourselves at the debate on amendments during tomorrow's day, so in 24.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-14-0.u1168	Thank you very much. I think Socialist Bojan Milovanovic will quit, too. (Dusan Bajatovic, from the post: On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I give up. Thank you, Mr. Bajatovic. I'm finishing the initial search. According to Article 140(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm setting a time-out until tomorrow at 14.00 p.m., when we will continue the review of the bill in particular. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 members of the sitting are present, or 90 MPs in the hall. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. None of the MPs signed up to be absent. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE MINISTRATIVES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Rajko Baralić, Zoran Krasić, Dejan Mirović, together Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradović, Dragan Todorović, Radiša Ilic, Željko Vasiljevic, Aleksandar Vučić, Nemanja Sarović, Goran Cvetanović, Slavisa Topalović, Amjad Migati, Veroljub Arsić, Saša Valjarevic, Vitomir Plužarić, Milorad Buha, Milovan Radovanovic, Natasaša Jovanović, Zoran Masović, Stefan Zaković, Darko Glišić, Jovanka Tabaković, Vesna Nikolić-Vujalić, Milošavić, Milošavić, Miložar Bužilović, Milović, Milović, Jadrijavić, Jadrijavić, Žradnović, Žražović, Žradnović, Žražović, Mirkodar, Mirkodar, Miražović. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
