ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12308	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by the 101st National MP. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Meho Omerovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic (the follow-up in particular) The National MP Jadranka Vuković submitted to the 27th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, squirrel. I always love it when the morning starts with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12309	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I remind you that we are talking about a bill on the President of the Republic. The MPs of the SRS have tabled a large number of amendments with the intention of correcting the text of this law. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted our amendments, or it is just one or two. Mr. Milan Markovic, the minister in charge of representing this law in the assembly, was here all day yesterday, but apparently without the intention of including himself in the work and without the intention of listening to the MPs. Today, I see, he's not here and he's being replaced by some paper in front of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12310	Excuse me, Verice, there's Mr. Milan Markovic, only in two minutes he asked for something to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12311	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic Milutin, I see perfectly and see the paper here in the place where Milan Markovic should be. And where he is and what he forgot, it's really not our problem. Don't defend him so rudely, and I don't know why you're even defending him. So, Article 27. The draft law speaks of the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic. In the fourth position of this member, it reads: "The Secretary-General has a deputy, whom he himself proposes, and whom he appoints and relieves the President of the Republic." The SRS thinks that this is not a good solution, that the Secretary-General is a public function and that it cannot possibly be a private matter of function. We suggested that the words "whom I propose, and" be deleted. The Secretary-General has a deputy appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic – that would be a good solution. The government says it does not accept our amendment 'because it proposes to delete a formulation that determines that the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General is proposed by the Secretary-General to the President-General of the Republic'. This is a completely unambiguous explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't understand what they were going to say, except what we were meant to say yesterday at one point Milan Markovic and said that they simply had no intention of accepting amendments, that they had predicted such a text of the law and that what we are doing was about to be a useless job. We, of course, think that it is not, because we really want to convince the Prime Minister and the MPs to vote for our amendments, and on the other hand, we want to explain to the citizens of Serbia what kind of laws the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes to the National Assembly and that the National Assembly is actually the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the MPs of the Assembly do not participate in the work at all when it comes to proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's really completely nebulous that the secretary general himself proposes to the deputy. Well, imagine how far this goes – now every official needs to see his function as private. Yesterday we spent four hours explaining to the government representative and the assembly majority what a public function is, what a private function is, and now a proposal like this appears here that someone is proposing to themselves a deputy. Every time we have something like this, we have an association in the SRS at The Hague tribunal, the fact that this tribunal makes its own rules, that it changes them from case to case, and when it sees that it cannot deal with Professor Vojislav Seselj, then it changes its rules. First of all, because of this association, we're totally against it and we're bothered with this kind of formulation. Imagine now, the secretary general suggests to himself a deputy and they argue after a few days, who knows why, maybe because of some commission, some job at the National Office, etc. We got what? We have a re-election of the new deputy secretary and so on. This is, first of all, legal uncertainty, complete illustrativeness that some function as it exists, and depends solely on the one who is his superior. So I am convinced that the minister is here to accept at least this amendment, to understand the essence of our amendment. But unfortunately, the minister is not here again. As you can see, Mr. Big-Ass, he's lost a lot, he's been looking for something he's forgotten for a long time. I hope the MPs of the day to vote in favour of this amendment. I see that, apparently, our criticism of yesterday was influenced, when we repeatedly called out the MPs of the congregation's majority. Not because it means something to us your presence in the O.R., but we simply don't think you have the right to destroy the credibility of the National Assembly by not sitting in this room, which you are not participating in Parliament's work. We understand that you support the government, that you support the minister. However, one part of MPs -- the government of Bozidar Djelic, the other part of MPs -- the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the third -- the government of Mladjan Dinkic, as the whole of Serbia knows we have three governments in Serbia instead of one single one. That's what you can see when there's a proposal on the agenda for one of those governments. If it is the government of Vojislav Kostunica, then his party's MPs participate in parliament's work, others boycott it. As for yesterday and these days, the proposed government of Bozidar Djelic, then only DS members are present, these others boycott the minister, the proposal. And then we're wondering why the media is bad about parliament, and I'm telling you that MPs do their part with their behavior. Serbian citizens expect the MPs to do their job, expect us to sit in this room, discuss proposals, express our views. I fully understand that the government representative or the assembly majority do not want to accept our amendment because of some conceptal difference, but all it takes is for a representative of the government to come out and explain it, that a representative of the assembly majority will come out and explain it, just to make sure that the citizens of Serbia see the difference between the SRS and all the others. We insist on it, and in every place we want that difference to be visible, because it does exist. The fact is that the SRS is different from all other parties in Serbia and we are convinced that the citizens of Serbia have long recognized it, that the confirmation of it will be in the next presidential elections. True, we haven't formally established a candidate at the Central Country Administration yet, but I can safely say, when elections are discussed, that our candidate for president will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I am also convinced that Tomislav Nikolic will be the president of the Republic of Serbia after these elections. That's why we care even more about this law being good, that it gives no special privileges or privileges to the President of the Republic, or to the Secretary-General, or to his cabinet. We think that the president, as well as the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to serve his people, to serve the citizens of Serbia, absolutely to all citizens of Serbia. Yesterday we haven't been able to convince you that the President of the Republic can't be president of the party. We couldn't convince you. Believe me, it's a big mistake. Believe that even Serbian citizens cannot understand how someone can be party president, while at the same time the President of the Republic says - I am the president of all citizens, and an hour later, at a party meeting, which is also public, says - members and supporters of the SRS are evil for Serbia, we will fight that evil. Of course, I'm talking specifically about Boris Tadic, the current president. In this way, he shows that the president is only his own party, that he has no say in being the president of all citizens. There are many examples, and through the People's Office these examples are visible. That's what we talked about yesterday, but it's not too much to do again. National offices are opening up wherever the DS is in power, without any legal basis, without public knowledge of how the public office is financed, which it is actually serving – for gathering members of the DS, for bribing Serbian citizens to do this or what they do if they join the DS. It's a completely illegal and unconstitutional office. We know she's open in time for the promotion of Dragan Gilas. And he was able to, as newspapers these days announce, raise his rating to an entire 9%. So it wasn't the people's office that helped him, or what he would have done. I remind you that citizens who turn to the People's Office neatly within about 15-20 days get a letter from the People's Office to inform them - the esteemed Mr. That and that, we received your letter, we met your problem, we're sorry, we can't help you, thank you for having spoken to us. Such mocking Serbia's citizens and insulting the intelligence of Serbian citizens is much more so even if it is from Boris Tadic. That is why we must not allow this post of the secretary-general to create another such powerful character, the jargonically speaking, who himself will edit the functioning of that secretariat, who will choose his own deputy. Then I wonder why we need laws, what we need institutions. You swear to strengthen the system's institutions, that the system's institutions have been functioning since 2000. We are telling you that everything is the opposite of that, that the institutions of the system do not function in Serbia, that everyone does what he thinks is public service. And all Serbian citizens know this and are very dissatisfied with this situation in the state of Serbia and will know that they explain and show it in the right way already in the next elections. And until then, I suggest you prevent the secretary-general from proposing to himself a deputy because, as we have practice in the DS, he may bring in a woman, a mistress, a aunt, a aunt, since all ministerial women are state secretaries in some other ministries, and such an experience is more reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12312	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stojanka Petkovic first appeared, then MP of the people, Nada Kolundžija, and Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12313	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure. 225 and 226. It has been 14 days since the terrorist attack on my family in Zvecan, Kosovo and Metohija. After 14 days, I find out that one false information was presented here, that it was only done because I applied to the Kosovo elections. Once again, I want to clarify some of the things that I have explained in front of many journalists on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. The G17 Plus party did not, as a party, apply for the Kosovo elections. Three civil initiatives have applied. Among other things, I was on one list in Zvecan municipality. I guess it's clear enough that no one gets off the horse on a donkey, if I had to say so, and it's perfectly normal that I, as an MP, wouldn't go down to the municipal councilman's seat. I'm really asking you not to interrupt me. This is very serious stuff. I wouldn't want anyone to see what happened to me wish your family were dead and destroyed. So, to explain why I did it, it is to clarify the situation where the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in Kosovo and Metohija was spent, which I drew attention to all the time at the meetings of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and I am almost certain that two-thirds of here know the truth. Please, if the procedure allows it, everyone takes transcripts from the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and read what Stojanka Petkovic said and there, in fact, lies the answer to all that. Based on the information I've been getting lately, and especially the one I got last night, I'm still very scared for my family's safety. Now I'm telling you publicly that if my family doesn't make sure, I will be forced to put the house for sale and move out. Now I ask the following question: why still, after 14 days, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the Security Committee have not yet taken a stand and reached a conclusion? I have a message from Kosovo, but I'm asking you what your message is. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen to anyone. Maybe I'll be the first Serb to move out of Kosovo for the sake of the Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12314	I thank the People's MP, Mrs Stojanka Petkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic spoke. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported two things per article 225 and 226. The first was, last night I was in Prokuplje at the promotion of the book of Prof. Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić" and I met with reservers who have been strikein' for a long time because the state had not paid off what was owed, it did not pay them off their daily war days in Kosovo and Metohija. That's where I heard the amazing things. Some DS gentlemen charged, and they did not cross the administrative border, so they even charged for their wives, for being afraid because their husbands were in danger. And several thousand reservers and today, eight years after the daily earnings, eight years after they put their heads in the bag and went off the other side of the administrative border to defend the Serbian nembud, the eight-year state owed them. I call upon the Minister of the Army, the military minister, as he otherwise likes to be called, Mr. Sutanovac, to resolve the problem of the reserve in Prokuplje immediately. The other thing I've come to say is that while we're here discussing whether the future president of Serbia will have the secretary general, deputies, assistants and how many of them they will have, there will be an incredible robbery in Belgrade this second. The Museum of Contemporary Art is being renovated. Dela Predića, Nadežda Petrovic, therefore works to buy a villa on Dedinj, are transported in regular trucks, thanks to G17, in a safe designated by Mladjan Dinkić, without any documentation, without any accompanying paper, without anything. I remind you that two years ago from this pay phone, I was talking about an incredible robbery that was done at the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, when the posters that were given to Tito at the time were different unions and other associations, which measured by 700-800 grams of twenty-four-carat gold with 10-12 brilliants (end in a minute), and these plaques are gone and the rest are just empty boxes. The same one who stole the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, or similar to it, today steals the Museum of Contemporary Art. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge the judiciary and Minister Jocic to stop this robbery because it will be too late in a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12316	I thank MP Momir Markovic. People's MP Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the Security Committee, then Mr Vladimir Milentijevic, president of the Kosovo Committee, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mrs. Petkovic of the ruling coalition spoke of shows, in fact, what unity exists in the ruling coalition. Was the ruling coalition's stance not to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija? Was that the attitude of all parties in the ruling coalition or not? By going to Kosovo's elections, for Kosovo's interim institutions, which were otherwise rejected by the assembly resolution more than five or six years ago, so-called. Hackerup's constitution has been declared worthless by this assembly. By going to the Kosovo elections, you gave the institutions legitimacy to say that Serbs participated in a future independent declaration of Kosovo and Metohija independence. And it's not a simple political move for each of you to decide on on your own. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the peoples of this nation and this country, not just in your own name. So, by doing so, you completely destroyed the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia and the state negotiating team. I don't think there is a country in a more difficult position, which deals with more irresponsible topics than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. The KFOR commander made a monstrous statement yesterday. I don't know if you're interested in what's being said or not. You're interested in the presidential election. You'll do what no one would ever do. Is there any government in the world that will withdraw the draft budget to vote the bill so that you can call the presidential elections? Is there any government in the world that thinks her budget isn't question number one? The budget's getting the government down. You'll act the opposite. I don't know if you're aware of the days we're going in. I don't know if you're aware of what topics we should be dealing with. The KFOR commander said yesterday that the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved because Serbs will biologically disappear from the space. It's a genocide, a Nazi, a fascisoid, a goebbel statement. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen, almost all parties have condemned some members of the Machine, who allegedly had fascist ideas. This idea has a KFOR commander. His task was, as I led a delegation that was in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, they swore they would ensure the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. No one has the right to remain silent after this statement by KFOR commander. We're expecting a statement from the government today. We're expecting a statement from the minister. What do we do here, ladies and gentlemen? Do we think that the main issue Serbia will face in the next month will be the election campaign? Oh, God, that's the way it is. I don't think we'll have time for that. I expect the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to invite the presidents of all parties and inform them of the current position we are in. I'm talking about a meeting that is normal, with party presidents, to schedule the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You, as MPs from the ruling coalition, are probably informed of what your president is doing. I don't know what your president's doing, and you must know what's going on within your parliamentary group. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Dacic, please. ) Therefore, we expect urgent sessions on these issues, we expect a reaction to these topics. I don't want anything bad to happen to you, Mrs. Petkovic, but you must understand that you participated in the elections that Serbian people and the state of Serbia decided to boycott and not participate in. After all, I hope the KPS, since you have confidence in the institutions of Kosovo and Metohija, will well determine what happened to you there and guarantee your safety. I absolutely condemn everything that's happened to you, but your move can't be justified. Participation in Kosovo's elections means giving legitimacy to those who will declare Kosovo and Metohija's independence tomorrow in Pristina. It was your move, unfortunately, you who are a member of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12318	I thank Mr. Dacic. The word is Mrs Stojanka Petkovic, so Mr Milentijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12319	Thank you. I really don't want anyone picking up political points today based on my accident. Mr. Dacic, you and your party would have the least right to discuss me in this manner personally and in the ruling coalition. The consequences of your policy are best felt by the people who remain in Kosovo and Metohija. What happened, what Stojanka Petkovic says and points to some mistakes that are happening, even in the ruling coalition, is nothing wrong and nothing terrible. And there's one more thing to tell you. Mr. Dacic, I want you to listen to me. I didn't go to the Kosovo elections. So you've been misinformed. The moment we received information from the government of the Republic of Serbia that Serbs should boycott the elections, we announced to the public and invited all citizens not to go to the elections, pulled the lists, now for a month, then there were three weeks ahead. And no one went to the election. So you can't place here that G17 plus went to the Kosovo elections. We pulled a list of the moment we came to the information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia said it should not be released. I would never want it to happen to you, to anyone, to anyone who did this to me, I just want to tell you in public today -- why did the Committee, when I said in public and loud in front of all the press that I was being threatened, why didn't anyone draw attention to me but the next day, the assassination happened to me? Today I publicly tell you that I have received another piece of information, that my family is at risk again. If anything happens to me, it means that you all knew and it does not diminish the responsibility of any of you, whether you are in the ruling or opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12320	The word has the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic, and Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12321	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this case is concerned, two days later, these speakers are almost all MPs, starting with the chairman, through the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, via Mr. Milivojevic, I, as chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, have all condemned this crime. After all, I conveyed from this pay phone the conversation and conclusion with the Petkovic family, so that it would be the last thing that should happen in Kosovo and Metohija. I wouldn't be free to comment on motives and whether it's for those and those reasons. After all, for all that is being commented, we should all be here, and we all care very much about knowing what the motives are and what the perpetrators are. So there's no dilemma. As for the appointment of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, the incident took place on Friday, and on Monday I asked MPs to schedule and maintain the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. An hour after that, MPs, members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, went to negotiations in Brussels. Mrs. Stojanka Petkovic knows we don't have a quorum there. I went to the press and explained that for these and these reasons, Mr Srdjan Milivojevic also knows, for which reasons the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was not held. And today we don't have a quorum to call the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. If you think we should put that on the agenda after 15 days, let's see if we have a quorum, and we can discuss it. Do not impute now to the chairman of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee that he did not want to schedule the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, and all members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee know there was no quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12322	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12323	I don't know if you understood that I might justify what was done to you. I said I'm judging. But what you just said shows the peak hypocrisy of the party you were just talking about. Well, did we support you for three years when you were in power? How come you didn't mind the SPS then? How can you not be ashamed? What you didn't say in principle: we don't want to go with you and we don't want your support. No, when you need power, you're good at socialists, and now you don't need it, and you're ashamed of the SPS. You follow what Milosevic achieved by Resolution 1244 and the entire people would be pleased. You think it was easy for us to support your client? You think our people weren't blushing, they weren't looking down when they voted for your ministers, your governors and everything? So what? That was a political deal. And be correct until the end. Did you say yourself that we had a good political partnership? What's the problem now? What's wrong with Milosevic's policy? Do Kostunica and Tadic speak differently today than was said in the '90s? Does everyone advocate Kosovo's autonomy within Serbia? Does everyone agree that they will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence? What's the difference? What will you do, ladies and gentlemen, if they declare Kosovo and Metohija independence? Will you sign it? You won't sign it. Even at the cost of the bombing, you won't sign it. You won't! That's what we did. So don't talk. You are now in a position to lead this country. There's no one else to take it out on. Milosevic is dead, we are not in power. Here, run this country. Who's bothering you? Just be correct and principled to the end. Political relations in Serbia are built on the basis of political correctness, not on the basis of political indiscipline -- when who needs it. I've always been about to tear down all the walls that were between us in the past, but in this way we can't do that. Because you've been in power for three years thanks to the SPS' support, and that's what you're talking about. You should be ashamed, because that's why you survived as a party. And as for other political partners, I think we've shown all these days that we have a proper relationship with state and national interests. We have our own party interests. Our party interest is that this session lasts ten days. Do you want us to act in harmony with the party's interest today or with the state and national interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12324	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Zvonko Stević, appeared, and the messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, and the messenger of the people, Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the SPS these days and I have personally condemned the attack on the house of the Petkovic family and us as socialists and myself as residents of Kosovo and Metohija, we do not think that this is a way to solve political problems and the overall situation in Kosovo and Metohija and for every conviction. But, dear fellow Members, that's what you do these days, and Mr Batic does it, that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are guilty of everything, which is not true, and we don't need Serbs who are left behind and who remain in the area of Kosovo and Metohija to impute such a mortgage. If Serbs have done so, which I have no information for, then KPS and security forces and KFOR should establish and say who these individuals are, not that all Serbs are in Kosovo and Metohija, because they are guarding the state of Serbia, allegedly guilty. Your findings here and the statement that these are the consequences of the SPS, absolutely does not stand. Maybe 2001, 2002. Ma'am, tell me what you did for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija for the eight years of the democratic coalition, democratic capacity, to make their lives better. Is their life safe? It's not. Can they move freely? They're not moving. Did they get their property back? It's not. How many people are returned to their jobs in Elektroprivreda, Amortizera, Trepč, etc.? Indeed, there was no negotiation, the negotiations had failed. You'll have to admit that here. No negotiations, it's just a front. Power centres are in Brussels and Washington, and fortunately, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia are the centre of Moscow's power, which advocated respect for international law and implementation of Resolution 1244. Any negative outcome of resolving Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will be one of the biggest losses in the DS and democratic capacity in Serbia. Let me remind you, about the election. The SPS never advocated and accepted the election. Why? Because there are no minimum conditions for the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. What kind of election is this? And you, ma'am, were in the so-called Return Coalition an MP to the Kosovo Assembly. Tell the public and citizens here what the Return Coalition, participating in the Kosovo Parliament, has done good for the people of Kosovo and Metohija. It's really incorrect. Let you defend Resolution 1244, respect international law and keep Kosovo in Serbia's composition. If you do, then it's fine, but it seems you can't and you'll have to admit it after eight years of your reign. And during the SPS rule, you well know, after 50 years in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs could say they were Serbs, but all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija were equal. The fact that Albanians are seeking to create an independent Kosovo and a large Albania is a particular problem and that is the state's problem and should be addressed by this country, or the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12326	Thank you, Tink Stevic. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, has the word. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12327	Mr. Milivojevic, I'm going to ask you for seriousness because I have no intention of arguing with you, and from the post of vice president and to your insecure insolent insolence, I would say brazen and rude, in such a difficult situation for the state and the people. But that's like you or probably the party you belong to. I answered, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, under article 27 concerning the work of the president of the National Assembly. I expect Mr Oliver Dulic to come, because I have some very important information for him and for you. Mr Dacic told you that the Defence and Security Committee has visited the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We've been informed, when we leave on Sunday, that members of the Obor from the ruling coalition cannot travel with us. We, the Serbian radicals, who were the most numerous in the delegation, and to Mr Dacic, and how pleased it was to go to NATO headquarters and to have those who bombed us for 78 days, who occupied Kosovo and Metohija, who made us such sacrifices that will be remembered and that will make the Serbian people on their souls and hearts have the early centuries that are ahead of us, we say everything we think about them. Of course, they were most interested in whether we were for Euro-Atlantic integration. Given the fact that Serbia is a signator of the Partnership for Peace Agreement, do we want to join NATO? We said no, because at least two-thirds of Serbian and national representatives sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot see NATO and do not want to join NATO. A Partnership for Peace, within the frameworks of the Russian Federation and other friendly states, which favor our people and which want to defend territorial integrity, or those within the Mediterranean group, why not such co-operation. But only under conditions until it threatens the stability of our country and people, otherwise some future political leadership may make a different decision, that we don't need it too. Responsible leadership, headed by the SRS. I called to say that a colleague from the Italian parliament appeared in the first day of our stay at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. His name is Djancarlo Gjordjeti, and he is the initiator of the initiative to vote in Italy's parliament on an urgent procedure for the resolution. This is the English version. I have now received information, half an hour ago, from Rome, that yesterday the Italian Parliament adopted this resolution, although with some changes compared to how it stands in this English version. I'm going to try to read some of it to you, or translate it, to see how much you're distracting us with all this nonsense and with your petty party or large financial malfeasances and robberies, at the moment the people of Kosovo and Metohija are expecting December 10th with suspense, and because of the fact that this villain, the KFOR commander, said yesterday, what Mr Dacic just said, that we would be biologically lost as a people. And our commanders at the Shape base, as soon as they came forward, assured NATO generals, who are handling all operations, including all five battalions in Kosovo and Metohija, that they will protect Serbs. We told them that their mission was unsuccessful, that they were the biggest cowards between 17 and 19 March 2004, when they were throwing weapons, hiding behind tanks, and running behind buildings under the attack of the Cypriot terrorists and asking them: and what if it were true that there were tens of thousands to the teeth of the Shiptara armed? They didn't have an answer to that. This one, who runs those formations, even said: you know, we haven't seen anyone and we couldn't arrest anyone on the street, neither we, nor UNMIK, nor KPS, because they don't carry guns. They will not show them, of course, as they did not show in 1998, when they killed and shot at everything that is Serbian and when our famous army and Serbian generals dealt with the gang of villains, as well as the Serbian police. This resolution, ladies and gentlemen, which we do not have on the agenda, you see, is being considered by the Italian Parliament at the request of 23 MPs, because Mr Georgetti's initiative was also signed by his colleagues, and then voted yesterday in the Italian Parliament, which just arrived as a statement from Mr Georgetti's cabinet. It says nicely that the status of Kosovo and Metohija, in the first sentence, is defined by Resolution 1244 and that only the state of Serbia can decide on the fate of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in agreement if the latter so-called. the negotiating side of the Shiptarian leadership. And that no one can step on Resolution 1244 and that the Serb people must be protected below. And, of course, in those four members as many as they are here, but now I hear, in this new version, which is given for translation, there are several members, clearly and loudly standing, as the Italian government should do, watch out, December 10th. Yesterday, they adopted a resolution predicting that the Italian government should act on December 10th, and today, on November 30th, we are under the law on the President of the Republic, which was to be passed five months ago, for the president of the Republic, who will be the Serbian radical Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12328	Please, Miss Jovanovic, watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12329	Allow me, Mr. Grouchy, I think it's important. I'm sorry I overstepped my time, but I'm just going to read what's in what the Italian Parliament adopted, that is, in Mr. Georgetti's proposal. So to prevent any violence within the framework of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's issues and status, and to resolutely reject any unilateral recognition of the southern Serbian province's independence, they wrote Kosovo. That the solutions are within the Security Council and the UN, respecting Resolution 1244 and considering the date, they say, on December 10th, a "set line" cannot be accepted as such, that this will be the final day, but that further solutions will be found that will be acceptable for both sides during further negotiations, and that December 10th is just the date of the report. And to repel any unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija as independent states of all members of the European Union. That, gentlemen, was adopted to you in the Italian Parliament, and you're dabbling over that people's "self burns and the grandmother combs," doing whatever you want and what you think is useful to you, but the people despised you, especially what you want in NATO, because of the kind of villains who did this to us and you weren't prepared to send your representative. I am also proud of my colleague Jadranka Vukovic and Dr Cvetanović, of course, with respect to everything Mr. Ivica Dacic has done, which we have told these villains in these three days everything in the face.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12330	I thank Miss Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Zeljko Vasiljevic. Just say which member of the Rules of Procedure and what you advertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really can't believe this is happening in the Serbian Parliament today...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12332	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12333	A violation of dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12334	What member is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12335	Article 103 or 104 Article 104 doesn't matter. I want to speak for the Veterans of Serbia movement, a political party founded by people who were killed, who fought at KIM for the freedom of the Serbian people and who fought for people like Mrs Petkovic with their lives. I find it really hard to believe that you said this, that you said that the situation in 1999 and the war in Kosovo was the responsibility of the SPS and the SRS policy. It proves your absolute ignorance of the situation in the world, the geostrategic reasons why there was a war. Mrs. Petkovic, I ask you today, in 1999 there was a war, in 2000 you came to power, so why today there is a tendency from the great forces to separate Kosovo from Serbia? Is this the policy of the SPS and the SRS or maybe the G17 plus? Did your wrong policy lead to a requirement for Kosovo to gain independence? You have no answer to that question. I'd like you to come out here and say why today the great forces, above all, America insists on Kosovo's independence. Is that the price, their request, for bringing you to power in 2000? Do you now pay the price of agreeing to play in a car with the devil? Our fight and the sacrifice of several thousand people who died at KIM in defence of the interests of the Serb people – and if they knew that you would be here today and say this, believe me, that you would consider your sacrifice in vain – led to Resolution 1244, the only strong factor in these negotiations that stand in Serbia's interest. The only thing we have at this point is Resolution 1244. The only thing we have in Bosnia is the Dayton Agreement, which has been certified by the blood of thousands of people. Don't, Mrs. Petkovic, make your statements that you are baffled and annuling those victims, because they really had no other interest, and for nothing else they were given, but for the sake of the interest of the Serbian people and Serbia's defence. What you did, which you applied to the election for KIM although the unique position of all important state institutions, from the president of the state, the Prime Minister and all parties, was not to go to elections, there is no other name, Mrs Petkovic, but only one - betrayal. I know it's hard to hear from this pay phone, but it is. Is this betrayal, which you've done, motivated by money, some private reasons or political attitude, it really has nothing to do with it, but it is treason.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12336	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12337	Thank you. I'd like to get this discussion back to normal. I really don't think there's any room for such burning emotions. To go back to who's a traitor, and who's a patriot, I guess we left that behind, a decade ago, a dozen years ago, and I don't think that's really something Serbia needs right now. Serbia needs indeed a little more peace and rationality at the moment, especially as regards Kosovo. I would ask you not to bring that question down to the level at which the previous speaker spoke. I answered, in fact, in a replica of Mr. Dacic, because he really talked about my stranger in an ugly way. What's this about? I think this question, which Mrs. Petkovic spoke of, is really not a political issue. So, when it comes to G17 plus, I want to remind Mr Dacic that G17 plus policy and SPS policy have nothing in common with each other and I think it is to the satisfaction of both the SPS and the G17 plus. Why was G17 plus in the government, and why did the SPS support that government? I want to remind you that G17 plus never negotiated with the SPS and never asked for SPS support. G17 plus he was in the government, and now I'm going to remind you why. So that the dinar would be stable, that we would introduce a VAT that no one had the courage to introduce before, to introduce fiscal cash registers that no one had introduced, and all of that to keep the budget stable, so that pensioners would receive pensions, and employees in health care, education and other services would receive salaries. So to restore the middle layer in Serbia, doctors to do their job with dignity, so that we all as patients have decent hospitals that we can go to and the appliances needed to diagnose our situation, so that we can return the old foreign currency savings... No, I have to remind you because the question is why. So to repay even that loan for Serbia's rebirth, if you remember it, so as to introduce agricultural loans, housing loans... It's all normal now, but I need to remind you why G17 plus took part in the government and what he did. And why is G17 plus in the government now? Because we want to start-up loans to encourage entrepreneurship in Serbia, to make people less poor, to be less unemployed, because we want more chances for young people, because we want Serbia to develop evenly regionally. Whether or not the SPS supports it – it is their policy. As for Mrs Stojanka Petkovic, it is absolutely not a political issue. The safety and life of an MP and his family have been compromised. Do you really think that here, in this House, we should politicise this issue, or should we all really stand behind each and every one of us whose safety and family are at stake? Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12338	I thank Mrs. Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12339	To Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Sometimes I wonder if there was even a Prince's dinner and whether the citizen Lazar Hrebeljanovic, on his own and contrary to the interests of the Serb people, tried to stop the greatest force of that time in Kosovo. Slobodan Milosevic was not a Serbian prince in 1389. The Serbian Orthodox Church canonized Lazar Hrebeljanovic, a Serbian prince, for what he did in Kosovo, and has Satanised the other, as you do others. Today is the same dilemma in Kosovo. Will it be Serbia or will it not be Serbia? You did not act as a political laser at the time, but, contrary to the interests of the Serbian people and its territory and its state and its national being, you thought - if you free yourself from the influence of Slobodan Milosevic and his political positions and his political parties, it would be easier for you to resolve the issue. Because you were promised that Kosovo was a democratic issue, so when you come to power, how much tomorrow, all the issues will be resolved, with this in mind, to the general satisfaction. It's not, unfortunately, true. Kosovo and Serbia, Albanian interests and Serbian interests are limited by a project called the Prizren League, which has lasted for decades and nothing has changed there. It's our interest not to have this project realized. I guess it's no one's interest here to realize the Prizren League project. If he is, let him say it in public. There are questions, they're so-called. previous issues that should not even be discussed. Whether it should be Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia – it is not discussed, that is understood. That's what you're born with, that's what you live with, and that's how you raise kids. But it's not the point, it's the point of being on the highest, the hardest hill pushing a car downhill once it's estimated that whoever pulls that car can get these others into power. Here's your authority and here's your Kosovo and solve Kosovo. But you can't because those who don't give it didn't give it up before and don't give it up today. And don't embarrass yourself on this subject. This is not a political issue in Serbia, this is religious, this is a global, global issue, this is a fundamental issue of the conflict of two civilizations from centuries ago. Don't talk about it today and don't talk about the SPS in that context. I said yesterday -- if it hadn't been for that policy in 1989 and the constitution, there wouldn't have been a topic today, neither would Vojvodina be a topic. It would be, de facto, three states today. We are proud that Serbia today is a single country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12340	I thank Mr. Baralic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, then the MP of the people, Misa Petronijevic, then Momir Markovic, all according to the Rules of Procedure, then Željko Vasiljevic, and we will see if we will report further. Please, Mr Vasilevich, read a little Rules of Procedure, don't get too upset. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12341	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered the line because my name was mentioned, completely wrong. On several occasions, I asked for a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to be scheduled. I can't understand, regardless of the political differences, regardless of the party divisions, how they can be silent when they're on the house, on the household, on the family of one of our colleagues, a member of Parliament, throwing bombs, conducting diversions and sabotages. Mr. Milentievich, you had to schedule a session of the Committee every day to see who would come to that session, who would not come, why he would not come, whether the reasons for his absence were justified. So you're wrong that there were no conditions for a quorum. It was. It's been 15 days since. Yours is to schedule a session once, twice, three times, and the subject is so serious that you should have scheduled it every day. That's one thing. It's another thing. Of course I didn't mention that all the tragic events in Kosovo and Metohija were done by Serbs. It's just a matter of work. There is, of course, and I've kept pointing out, the responsibilities of members of Serbian nationality and conflict between Serbs, which is the worst that can happen to us at this point. That's what I've been up to all the time. Of course, I don't know who committed this crime on Mrs. Petkovic's house, but she, too, and more people, told the official, and she warned in advance, of course that someone could have abused it, that it was Serbs, apparently. But I mentioned a dozen things – double morals, money from Kosovo's budget, money from the 'Mork Albanians' register for my private engagements, for my private firms, for my pockets – that's double morality – and here full of mouth stories about Kosovo, cradles, roots, etc. It's immoral. I mentioned building roads without a tender, illegal border crossings, smuggling. Well, Mark Patrick, who was a paratrooper, who was on the front line the whole time, was killed by Serbs. This is all I mentioned by the Serbs. The teacher, whose name I mentioned yesterday, was driven from Kosovo by Serbs. So let's open that topic up, see the problems between us that we can and we have to solve. That's my appeal. Of course I wouldn't get involved in the controversy between G17 and SPS. Gentlemen, you were in power thanks to the SPS's votes. You took ministerial seats because they provided the parliamentary majority. Whether you made a direct deal with them or it was done through the middleman, it doesn't matter, it stays. But since many things have been quoted here what this government has done, let's see the effects of that love. Montenegro has gone, Kosovo is further away from Serbia, we are the last on the road to European integration, the institutions of the government have not yet been established, the torments are being plagued with the Constitutional Court, etc., crime is booming again, inflation has begun. What's positive about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12342	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word has been given by the People's MP Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12343	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out to agree with Mrs Stojanović-Plasic in one thing: the SPS and the G17 have nothing in common. I totally agree with that. Secondly, given what Mrs Plassic said, I would just like to point out - do not push us to support the SPS's security threat, not only Stojanka Petkovic's MPs, but any citizen, because it is not true and it is a lie. The SPS condemns the threat to security and asks the competent authorities to find the person responsible for this. And it has nothing to do with politics. Our relationship, which we have shown in relation to political action, is our right. We reacted the moment Mrs Stojanka Petkovic said Kosovo was the result of the SPS policy. We said, in one sentence only: The SPS and Slobodan Milosevic provided Resolution 1244 in the most difficult conditions. You who spoke in 2000 and who today thinks it's 2000, just save it and nothing more. Third. In the score list G17 plus, I'd add just a few more. G17 plus was in power thanks to the SPS' support in the assembly. The SPS didn't participate in the government, and it doesn't know what's going on there, it's been giving a parliamentary majority here. The SPS didn't wonder whether the government would form or not, but G17 plus, if it had what it had to have, would say: I will not be in such a government that will support the SPS. And by the way, there were direct negotiations. In the end, let me continue these policy results, as Mrs. Snow White said, G17 plus. She's listed here, I'd like to add just a few more. The results of this policy are that today 400,000 children are below the poverty line, that not all children can be educated. The results of this policy are that today there are millions of unemployed, it's easy to lose a job and it's hard to get it. The result of this policy today is that over a million pensioners are at the poverty line, that pensions are paid regularly, but that they are 50% of the profit average. The results of this policy are that it is exempt from value added tax computer equipment, but it cannot be freed from baby equipment. The results of this policy are that mothers today receive 60 percent of pregnant patients and that I do not count further. These are the results of this policy. Of course, one smaller percentage of people live well in Serbia. When you do it on average, it's a middle layer. Those who live well are small and huge, the number of those who live badly. On average, it is a middle layer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12344	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Petronievich. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can't betray without thieving, you can't betray without stealing, and you can't steal without treason. It seems to have become a rule of behavior from a bulldozer revolution over here. I just asked what vault Mladjan Dinkic is driving from the Museum of Contemporary Art of Invaluable Value - Sava Šumanović, Nadezda Petrovic... The Museum of Contemporary Art, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, is used for the settings of Philip Morris, for all sorts of things, just to see what it's called, I haven't been interested so far, Grace Jones. Says the woman of exceptional energy, wild energy. He's probably playing something over there. Again, I return you to your previous mandate and to that when I warned you, even asked for a survey committee to be formed for the Yugoslav History Museum. It's an incredible robbery of everything that's worth it. Everything with artistic value and financial value is gone. Mrs. Borka Vukic can list which pictures were all before the entry of those with socks on their heads and kalashnikovs into the National Bank. See if there's any of those pictures in the National Bank now. Where are those pictures? Let me remind you, the incredible works of art from the Museum of History of Yugoslavia have been stolen, and now we're going back to the current robbery, to the Museum of Contemporary Art. Sorosch is in the Museum of Contemporary Art. A certain Branislava Dimitrijevic, sister-in-law of Vojin Dimitrijevic, with a mid-term, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art, and a certain Branislav Dimitrijevic, son of Vojin Dimitrijevic, is likely to be now, director of Soros for Serbia, and now Deputy Minister of Culture, is leading the round at the Museum of Contemporary Art. The works are related, the museum is renovated. And let me tell you one more piece of information. Here, and the Theatre Museum is about to renovate. Wherever there's something worth it, because they see that the end is near, to steal as much as possible, to rob. I demand, ladies and gentlemen, that we take matters into our own hands, solve the problem, stop the robbery. I remind you of those robberies that are in NIS, I remind you of all the robberies, all the affairs that have been discovered so far, and those that have not been discovered. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Museum of Contemporary Art isn't designed to have rock groups in it holding concerts for the selected clientele, because there can't go all kids who love rock and pop music. The amplitude of crime and betrayal has reached its peak. Let's find a way to stop it. And it's all about a certain encrypted interest group, pretty much yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12346	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12347	Mr. President, I've come forward with a replica about the presentation of Snezana Plassic. I just want to say that I didn't speak at all about the party you belong to. I just wanted to ask you why you're ashamed of the time we were in power together. I will remind you, for your information, that the day before the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where you were, in the DSS headquarters, on Paris Street, held a meeting that I was invited to, as the chairman of the SPS General Committee at the time. The host was DSS President Vojislav Kostunica. Dragan Marsican, then president of the assembly, was present, or was on his way out. On behalf of your party, he was the president of the Miroljub Labus party. On behalf of the SPO was Vuk Draskovic and on behalf of the NS was Velimir Ilic. So much so that you don't even know about it. So don't pretend to be ignorant. You can say whatever you want, you weren't in power without sin, to use a slightly different term. Every government has its own price, every government has its privileges, so I don't see any reason why you're talking ugly about a party that's been supporting you for three years today. I don't think it's correct and it's not human. It's not human because, based on our votes, you've exercised power here as corporate directors, board presidents, assistants, state secretaries all over Serbia. At least be so correct and don't spit on those who chose you. As far as these other matters are concerned, I repeat again - what do we have to do with the incident that took place in connection with MEP Petkovic? We don't have anything to do with it. We condemn these incidents. I'm just pointing out the fact that, as much as my memory serves, ma'am, you were an MP and in the former assembly of the Kosovo Assembly on the list of the Coalition Returns. At the time, there was some attitude that should or should not go to the polls. This assembly rejected Hekerup's constitution on the basis of which elections were called. So what happened to you is that we condemn and demand that the perpetrators be established. And what do we have to do with it? If you as the ruling coalition have a dilemma whether or not you should participate in the elections, if you as the ruling coalition have a dilemma whether you should move from Kosovo or not, what will those Serbs who look at you as leaders and leaders of this country do? President, there's just one more thing I want to say. The Socialist Party of Serbia has its own party interests, but will always subordinate state and national interests to party interests. Conversely, we will always subdue our party interests to state and national interests, and we have done so so far. So we have in mind the difficult situation in which the state is located, we have in mind and the need to comply with the constitutional law. Please, the SPS can't serve someone here as a mat. To come out for this pay phone, he says a lot of things and he gets an ovation from this other side that requires us to be constructive. You don't have it now, you don't have it. We're the opposition. We let you build a government. Our constructiveity and these right-hand ones were made by this government, not by your merit. Keep that in mind and clear in your heads that it's been seven years since that date you thought was historic. Clear if you want to work together or if you want someone to be on the mat and someone to play the mat. We won't let that happen for sure. We have our political views and we have our own state program. We've been constructive all this time. We didn't spit on anyone in a way that anyone could be ashamed of what he said. We believe that political culture should be dominant in this parliament, that we should be an example for all other citizens of Serbia, not for Serbian citizens to laugh at the way Parliament is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12348	Time, Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12349	So, Mr. President, I ask your ruling coalition to properly clarify what kind of relationship it wants with the parties that are in the opposition. If you want correct relations, we're here. If you want incorrect relations, we're back. Just know this will take a while and it won't go so smoothly. So, you have your own party interests and goals, we have our own political agenda. We're here, and if you're ashamed to cooperate with us, believe that sympathy and antipathies are common and mutual and, I must say, maybe a little stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12350	Thank you. Now let me ask Parliament to, on behalf of that interest that you mentioned, which is really the need to comply with the constitutional law until the end, continue to work on the amendments. There are a lot of amendments to this law, and there's still a lot of work to be done and a hard day ahead of us. Please, Mr Dacic, let's make a deal, since only your MPs have reported to the Rules of Procedure, to continue our work and thus demonstrate our constructiveness, as we will, I'm sure, to you. Here you go. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12351	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, when I spoke earlier, I spoke very nicely, politely and culturally. I was told from this pay phone by the ruling coalition that it was me and that we were the last to have the right to talk about it. And you, on this left, who make up the ruling coalition, applauded it enthusiastically. What do you think now? Now what? What are you asking us to do now? Should we admit that we're the last ones to talk about it? No, we're the first ones to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12352	Thank you. The word is Hope Kolundji, head of the DS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12353	I want to say that the DS has supported one fate by its reaction and tried to say that it is important for us here every time that the Assembly supports every MP, anyone from whom it is threatened. So we have not applauded any political position, we have given support in one situation where a national MP was found. I'm asking you to really understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12354	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break, and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the meeting in O.R. One. [[After break – 11.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I give my first word to the G17 plus Suzani Grubjesic, and then to the head of the SPS Group to Ivica Dacic. Here you go, Mrs. Grubeshic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12356	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I've reported to you under Article 103. A Rules of Procedure which says that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, and it is not to the contrary mentioned in Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. In that sense, I urge all MPs to continue working on issues that are on the agenda, to continue the debate on amendments. I think it's in everyone's interest that the National Assembly works well and efficiently, to do the work that the citizens have chosen us for and for which we've been paid. In front of the G17 Group of MPs, no one will report to the Rules of Procedure anymore. So I ask you to continue the debate on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12357	Thank you. The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we wouldn't even be using this institution to report to the Rules of Procedure if there were no certain nuances in the controversy that affected the feeling of a number of our MPs being called by other colleagues. That is why I would call on you all and warn you that in our mutual relations and communication we respect the basic standards of political behaviour, political culture and equality of all MPs. We must not treat each other with understatement. Every messenger has received the votes of the people, and by insulting any of the messengers, we insult those who voted for him. We will no longer report on this subject under the Rules of Procedure. We will take part in the debate further according to the amendments, but I warn you once again, the SPS is ready to make constructive approaches and topics on behalf of the state's initial interests where it might have some different party interests. Then we spoke and now we say that of all our parties, of all our seats and of all our chairs, presidential, ministerial, prime ministers, more important states and people whose people we are Members. If we lose that country, we will lose both the party and the parties, the parliamentary seats, the presidential, the prime ministers and the ministerial chairs. That is why, if we want such an approach, we need unity, a consensus on the most important national and state interests, and we really don't need such a fight in our Parliament. We also wanted to contribute to encouraging unity, not having a different approach to the most important state and national issues, such as the issue of elections in Kosovo and Metohija organised by UNMIK. We will continue to work, but once again we warn you to treat all parties in an equal manner, respecting their dignity, their political ideology and, of course, respecting the right to think differently from the ruling majority. As long as the debate takes place, whether there will be any reports again in the Rules of Procedure, it will also depend on the course of the debate. At this point, we have no reason to be ashamed of anything we've said. We have not offended anyone, we have not justified anyone's act against any MPs, we ask that the competent state authorities declare this, but of course we do not agree to the qualification that we do not have the right to talk about it. No one here came to Parliament to keep his mouth shut, on the contrary. It is better to speak in parliament than to have conflicts on our streets. We'll keep working. I just called to say that our MPs, who have applied for a reason, respecting this constructive approach, will not report on this point in the Rules of Procedure and we will continue the debate according to the amendments. Please understand, this is no one's whim. This is the preservation of every party's dignity and we would justify any move by any party or any individual if his dignity and integrity were attacked.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12359	I thank all the MPs of the people for their construction. We're moving on. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that there is a serious difference between the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition when it comes to the law on the President of the Republic, and that is the fundamental difference, and that is the reason for the large number of amendments that have been submitted to this law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. True, he's not a fundamental nature, he's a legal-technical nature, but I think he's showing that a lot of unprepared authority has entered into the preparation of this law, that the law is quite inconclusive and that there are serious technical failures. So, the amendment, as I said, refers to Article 27, and that's attitude 6, to a finding that's extremely rough, and here, I'll read to you so that you can judge for yourself what it's all about: 'The Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General are the officials whose function ceases if they resign... ''My amendment gave a much clearer, more logical definition: ''The Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General's functions ceases to be resigned, resolved and sworn by the new President of the Republic''. So it's quite clear that this finding is more linguistically justified, more logical. The explanation I received from the government refers to the need to point out that the Secretary-General is a functionary. I think it is completely unnecessary because we already have the Law on State officials and deputies who define this issue, and also in the first position of Article 27, it is said that the Secretary-General is headed by the Secretary-General and that it is resolved and appointed by the President of the Republic. Therefore, it is quite clear that it is about appointed persons. I would add that in the next article 28, in the first position, we also have an obvious finding that the Secretary-General is a functioner, so this explanation, which came from the government, is inappropriate. It, unfortunately, shows the government's unpreparedness and unwillingness of the Minister for Local Self-Government to commit themselves to this law, to understand the well-meaningness of all amendments and proposals of the opposition MPs and to organise this institution in a more permanent, more serious way, which is of paramount importance, and not to, on the basis of its presumption of who will and who should be President of the Republic, make laws that affect all institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12361	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12362	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't report in the Rules of Procedure just now, although I did need to say a few sentences. I'll use part of the time to explain the amendments to, above all, the public, say that hypocritical behavior is the congregation's majority. And it lasts every day. We spent two hours here today talking about the Rules of Procedure. Members of the SRS did not participate, we do not defend ourselves because we participate whenever we need to do so, but those two hours by the Rules of Procedure were initiated by the first announcement of one MP from one parliamentary group belonging to the assembly majority. Then it's amazing that you can't, Mr. Dulic, before the beginning of the session to agree with your congregation majority how they should behave in order not to challenge the MPs of the opposition. Why are you doing this? You're not even naive. Don't do it by accident. I don't mean you personally now. You want to take a break after those two hours, and then the citizens of Serbia see it because, God, the opposition has made some kind of a problem, they've been talking about it for two hours in the Rules of Procedure. And the poor ones of the congregation's majority, they want to talk about the law right now, to finish the law we were supposed to finish five months ago. That's not what you're gonna say, but that's why I'm saying it now. What else do you want? You want the opposition's MPs to be exhausted by convincing you by the Rules of Procedure that you are wrong and that you are wrong, using your right to the Rules of Procedure. Then you count on the opposition MPs to get tired, eventually lose their concentration, and you say, "We're working tonight until we're done," even if it's five o'clock in the morning, because it fits into some of your plans. I now advise you to include in your plans the possibility of reporting to the Rules of Procedure and to include in your plans the fact that there are opposition MPs here. At least as far as the SRS MPs are concerned, we will always defend our views and we will never let any of the congregation's majority insult us in any way, and then we will remain silent to enable, as you say, not you personally again, but representatives of the congregation's majority as they say, to continue to work on the agenda. You must learn that everything possible by the Rules of Procedure fits in with the congregation work. Whether the agenda is currently on the agenda or whether the agenda is disrupted by its response to the Rules of Procedure, it is absolutely legitimate, it is absolutely legal and there is no way for you to prevent us from doing so. And it's not nice, Mr. President, to interrupt the Assembly every time you start speaking a little bit longer in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, you can and I don't mind saying it's because of the consultation with the heads of Parliament, but I've never heard you say "please not abuse the Rules of Procedure, not cause the MPs of the opposition to react to the Rules of Procedure" but "let's do it on the agenda". We understand that, but I said all this because I want the citizens of Serbia to understand it. I don't want to get the impression that in any way the opposition is holding back the work of parliament. On the contrary, the opposition is very actively involved in parliament's work, unlike the assembly majority MPs. You cannot spare the time that you have lost, which we all in parliament have lost thanks to the assembly majority. You cannot save time by the assembly majority MPs not participating in parliament's work, which, of course, is their problem. I don't call you and challenge you. If you think it's nice to sit, sleep, read the paper, go to coffee, come back, that's your business. At this point, it's in the part of this room where the MPs of the SRS are sitting pretty empty. It's like that every Friday because on Fridays at 12:00, it's the SRS Executive Board. We have even depicted Parliament's work because, according to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not work on Fridays and this is a regular state of affairs. It's not like that anymore, you don't even know when workday is, or when it's a day off, or how many hours of workday. We of the SRS can endure all of this, we will do as you ask, because you are the assembly majority, because you are the President of Parliament. When I say 'what you ask', then I only think about the times and the days you set for work, but we will do as expected by the MPs of the SRS. So, as always, we'll talk about amendments, laws in principle debate. It has never happened, nor will it happen, that the MPs of the SRS do not participate actively in the work, any topic that is on the agenda, but also every time we have a need to do so, we will also use the business opportunity and speak in the Rules of Procedure. And I ask you, first of all, the heads of the parliamentary groups of the congregation's majority, to sort of organise your parliamentary groups, to sometimes talk to them and to have these, who love to run out or get us out of the bench some insolence, something inappropriate, etc. Check if you want the Assembly to work exclusively on the agenda. Of course, it never occurred to me to defend the SPS parliamentary group, they must be able to defend themselves, because this morning it was all about communication between the SPS and the G17. I say this in principle, because you, Mr. President, abuse such situations in front of Serbian citizens. Because when Serbian citizens hear you asking for a session to be interrupted to start talking about the agenda, then they think the MPs who speak here are irresponsible, irresponsible, etc. No, we're serious, we're responsible, we're involved, we're out there, and we're always going to bring out all the negatives, and as far as the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the Republic, and the majority of the assembly, and whatever rules you bring in, you'll never stop us from doing that. I hope you understand that. But I don't understand why our minister isn't here again. Indeed, this is the second or third time, the minister somewhere, where he's watching this transmission with coffee, he knows exactly that I'm going to ask where he is and he shows up at that moment. Welcome, Mr. Minister. Here, if you've been following Parliament's work somewhere, I'd like to ask you now, if I'm not going to explain, if you accept this amendment. I'd like you to tell me what the amendment is. That's what I expect from the minister. So you don't know. It is the amendment to Article 27(6). We have proposed, therefore, nothing essential, purely legal-technical order of this attitude 6. Read, believe that what we have suggested is more appropriate, closer to law and legal norm than what you have written. We have proposed that the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General cease the post by resigning, resolving and taking the oath of the new President of the Republic and that is absolutely in line with our legal order, with our legal system. You keep trying to get some new ones to introduce something that you overwrite, and then you get a bad translation. Believe me, that sounds very ghastly in Serbian. As this proposed position of yours sounds like: 'The Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General shall be officials whose function shall cease if they resign, if they are resolved or when the new President of the Republic takes an oath'. There's a lot of unnecessary, extra words here. What we've suggested is more concrete, more concrete. And your argument is that the amendment is not accepted because ''the amendment does not contain a provision that the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General are officials (as set out in Article 27(6)). A bill of law, which is very important because it distinguishes them from the civil servants'. This explanation has nothing to do with the amendment or common sense. Now, let's write in every member that the secretary general is a functioner, that the deputy secretary general is a functioner... I guess whoever Tadic is planning to set up after this law would know he's going to be an official, so he can tell mother-in-law, aunt-in-law, aunt-in-law: I'm Tadic's official. That's unnecessary. We have one law that regulates who officials are in the state of Serbia and there is no need to write in every other law something that already exists, something that is understood. It's not to be understood, it's already legally regulated. There's no need to write that again in this proposal. So, I suggest you, Mr. Markovic, accept this amendment. You're a man with many years of work experience, you've applied a lot of regulations, I know what you've been doing. I believe this formulation of ours is much closer, much more appropriate to you. Don't let the laws of this kind of raving formulations that no one who applies them understand, and obviously, neither does the one who brings them. So please accept this amendment. As you can see, it doesn't touch your concept of the law at all, but show at least that you follow the work of this Parliament and that you understand what we're saying to you. There's no reason either you or the MPs in voting day will not accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12363	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Let me say something about what you said. In the last few days, all MP groups have shown great correctness and efficiency as far as congregation work is concerned. I hope that's the way it's gonna be by the end of the year. We have an ambitious plan and a commitment, as a Assembly, to pass all those laws that we are bound by the Constitutional Law and to adopt the 2008 budget. The reason why we have to do more than the Rules of Procedure is that tomorrow it would not be in that same public that Parliament is ineffective, and I think that you are all very honest people who are doing your job and that Parliament is very effective. My intention is to show it. That's why we do more. Please understand that. I'm sure you understand some state-of-the-art interest in what we're doing. Today's problem with reporting according to the Rules of Procedure has been caused by the parliamentary majority, I am saying so because of the citizens of Serbia, as it has sometimes been caused by someone from the opposition. What's very important is that we always have mechanisms to bring the congregation's debate back to the way it is now, and that's the course of doing it on the agenda points. I will always defend every MP, no matter whether he's from a position or opposition, as I've done before. Thank you. If he no longer appears under this amendment, we move on to the next amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a period ahead that will mark the election campaign of the two presidential candidates. He is the current president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who was elected to the post in 2004. Following the convincing leadership of Mr Tomislav Nikolic in the first election cycle, who alone fought against the entire party conglomerates that are both laterally and vertically, however you like, and the media campaign that was led against him managed to win the majority, in the second election round, it happened that Kostunica called on his DSS to vote for DS candidate. Of course, there are people who didn't want to accept it at the time, and they represent some of you perhaps less familiar or less in the public of the affirmative officials of the DSS. I am convinced that they will also do such a job on the ground now, that, and if Vojislav Kostunica does so, this time tell their members to listen to the voice of reason, the voice of the people, the voice of the Serbian citizens who want to make changes, who wants a patriotic president, the president who will be determined, wise, who will at all times bear in mind that he is leading Serbia in delicate situations and that these people, including members of that political party, will vote to the fullest extent for the SRS candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Why am I telling you this? Because it needs to be cleared up by now. This is the first stage, the first stage in setting up, I would say new and different functions of the President of the Republic, because Boris Tadic was elected under the previous Constitution and because the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives precise and clear authority to the president, as well as those following laws that will be absolutely correct and best possible for Serbia and its future to fit in with the elected president, I am already absolutely convinced of that, as well as a huge number of Serbian citizens, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has spent his entire working life, and I have the privilege and privilege of knowing him since the renewal of the multi-party in Serbia, spent as a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, along with all those of his own, and as a father, and as a husband, thank God and as a grandfather, with all those jobs he did, and as a man who had and how a successful business career. However, from the moment he dedicated himself to the congregation's work in renewed multilaterals in Serbia, he made an immeasurable contribution to legislative activity. That, I am convinced, with all these human and moral qualities, is his leading reference in the upcoming elections, of course, and a programme that will offer citizens much better, for a much different, more stable and orderly Serbia than the current president does now. That's what I'm telling you because it's all about the amendment to Article 28. Starting with the law giving him the authority to elect the head of the Republic's cabinet of presidents and advisers, however, this outgoing President Boris Tadic has, Tomislav Nikolic will take a lot of account of it. Knowing him, I am convinced that the stability of the state and the people is first and that, taking over the functions given to him by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he must first take care, when he is already forming such a cabinet, that they are people who will be with the same energy and with the same zeal to follow him in the work he is doing. This amendment, in essence, represents a legal-technical order and, I would say, a language correction, that the law does not sound better than when anyone reads it, someone who doesn't even participate in our pre-election campaign and electoral system, some colleague from another country, so they correctly translate it, to say, why are these people one member who implies they should have it, one body that needs to have the President of the Republic, wrote in a conditional form: if they resolve it, if they set it up... if this, if that. That's completely pointless. You will see for yourself, Mr. Markovic, because of the public I will read, that much better sounds this member of the law in these changing attitudes, as suggested by fellow Zivkov. A colleague of Zivkov's suggested that Article 28, and the title above the member, "Head of the Republic's President and Councilors of the President of the Republic", be changed. You said: "The head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic and the advisers of the President of the Republic are officials" – of course they are, I don't know what the word "yes" will mean – "named and resolved by the President of the Republic". It is much more appropriate and better to make it as in the proposal, without vanity, of course, to accept it, because you may not have even been able to follow in that language how your associates or you yourself were designing and conceiving this law, and the essence is the same. To hear from other colleagues, perhaps, if the minister does not change his mind and accept it now, you agree on the voting day and you will see that the difference is great and that it is better as Mr. Zivkov suggested. He said, "The head of the Office of the President of the Republic and the advisers of the President of the Republic shall appoint and resolve the President of the Republic." There's no word 'yes', there's no word 'if', and you see how much better the sentence itself, better written in technical and language terms of the rule of law. She didn't need any special philosophy here, just to throw out too many words. You know, sometimes, when we use a congregation speaker, we use some words that are excess, in the sense that we explain a term, an event, we report to the Rules of Procedure, etc. The colleague Vukicevic will tell you that it is not in any free interpretation, if the actor does not give God a confusion, allowed even in the theatre, because it would ruin the purpose of the play and what its role is and the role of her colleagues. Now imagine what it should look like in one law, where you have the next position, which says: 'The head of the Republic President and the advisers of the President of the Republic ceases to function... '"So now you're alleging cases. You will see, fellow Markovic, since you are primarily an MP and only now a minister, that you do not have such a solution in any law, you do not have in the Law on Local Elections. It says - by putting up with it. Well, I'm sure you don't even have DS statutes, even though nobody resigns there. You're getting worse, everyone in the same places and enjoying their functions. You say, "If they resign, if they are resolved or when the new President of the Republic takes an oath." Well, you know, it's impossible for you to tell Mr. Rakic, who is the head of Cabinta Boris Tadic: sitting there, Rakic, the people will no longer be Boris Tadic, he chose Tom Nikolic, and you will remain the head of the Cabinette. The moment Tomislav Nikolic takes his oath, he will appoint his head of the cabinet. The question arises as to what kind of people are and what kind of advisors your officials have chosen. That we may come from the advisers of Bozidar Djelic. It is a ridiculous Olympics, indeed. I mean, really, if we mention these guys around him, who they're for the circus, who they're for making fun of, the functions that he has, because he himself, Bozidar Djelic, is the kind of thing that's by nature and by the way it is and the laws, that I'm not talking about those thieves in Meridianan Bank, as a phenomenon, I'm not going to say funny, but likable... That's it, funny, come on. But if it's not supposed to be a state official, if it's meant to be a serious man, you'll see, let's say, now you're making a difference between Bozidar Djelic and Boris Tadic and now you say - Djelic is who he is - he's a part of a cartoon character at one point, and so I've been doing it for the rest of his life, and he's not mad about it, and he's all around, and he says - this is my godmother, I guess he's got that nickname, but if he's who he is, and he doesn't mind, you get out of it, and then he's got a serious face for Boris Tadic, so his hand in his pocket, and he's all those problems that I was talking about last week, so you should have serious people for the counselors. When there – Krstic and Shaper. Come on, for this Krstic, you know, not to mention the distinguished colleague Vukicevic, who spent her life in cultural circles and was impressed by our act, let's say, let's say, even though he goes to anti-Serbian B92 or anywhere, to go somewhere, a man will say -- this guy knows something as serious as to represent himself, that he's not such a charlatan, and he's just a loser. And that Saper when you see him, he really does associate you with another cartoon from another cartoon or something. And now, they meet on the terrace, even if it joins them and runs over Cedine Zebra Milivojevic, the party is complete. So it can't be run by the President of the Republic's Office. Councilman of the President of the Republic for Legal Affairs, remind me of his name, he was completely wrong to advise him. I remember that day, when the SRS authorised me to, together with my colleague Vukicevic, counterpart Spah and my colleague Stojanovic, lead a delegation in discussions on the fact that the SRS won the parliamentary elections and that it is the turn, since it is only now being defined, and last night I followed the debate after returning from this visit to the parliamentary assembly that we had, that you were just discussing this particular member, in which way the President of the Republic should entrust the mandate, and I also followed Mr Baralic's efforts for 126 signatures and so on. But it's only now being regulated by law. The most normal thing was that at the moment we arrived, Boris Tadic respected the Constitution. He was quite unprepared for that kind of conversation because he was badly counseled by counselors. In addition to Mr. Raduk, there was his counsellor on legal matters. If it were you, Mr. Markovic, or Mr. Radosavljevic, you might advise him better. I don't know, really, what's this gentleman's name, but in our conversation and in that briefing we had he didn't find himself at one point confused but kept repeating: and who's your candidate for prime minister, and who's your candidate for prime minister? You know, they have kids that say when they won't say anything to their father and mother sometimes, when they're in a bad mood or when they're in a bad mood, and imagine now serious politicians come and he's stuck: and who is, and who is? It's not yours to ask for a personal solution, it's yours to admit that you've been defeated in the election. When he admits, that's the only one who resigned, and then re-affirmed, it's important for him to be a minister, this tycoon of yours, Dragan Gilas. So it's not our place to talk to counsellors and head of the cabinet to the president of the state: and who is it, in a personal sense. You admit it and say it: victory is yours. You show up in seven days, you have candidates or you don't have them. That's how Boris Tadic should have done it. If he'd done so, you wouldn't have waited for that last moment to vote for yourself on May 15th. Things would have happened a lot faster. He's because of the head of the cabinet and the bad advisors and because he wanted to buy time to see what Solana would tell him, what Ollie Rehn, this one or that one, for months, or until the last moment, was silent about the candidates. If they were in that moment -- you see how important the role of advisers is, Mr. Amjad Migati knows best – that the role of the advisor of the President of the Republic for legal matters was such that he was well informed of the fact of the situation, he would tell us, the delegation who came: here you are, I trust you with the mandate for the formation of the Government, report in seven days, in ten days, and we will see whether you have a congregation majority or not. It would be done by a responsible politician who carefully selects responsible advisers. But that wasn't the case here. The President of the Republic must indeed, under our Constitution, take care, and in accordance with these powers at this delicate moment and at a future foreign policy moment for our country, of who will represent us abroad. We will now have in our embassies, diplomatic representations, a very delicate situation. For some time, it will somehow roll this congregational majority of yours, which is so complex in five to twelve in May as you knew and had to, and as Solana ordered you, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic will already have to search and tell the people in charge of the area: bring me a list of all the ambassadors, although he already knows them, because some of the remaining shots of the time of Goran Svilanovic, whom, by the way, we have seen on that trip to Brussels. There goes a man, he finishes his work. Once an agent -- always an agent. Whether a UboB agent under the conspiracitative name Socrates or working for NATO or working for others always ends the job. But it is very important that this adviser, here for foreign policy, comes to Tomislav Nikolic and says, "Here, Mr. President, that's the situation, that's not good." Because how in Mexico does someone like Vesna Pesic represent us? A woman went out to have a good time and came back after I didn't know what time and said, well, I didn't learn the language. So, what were you doing there? We really can't think about the role of Chief Cabinette and his advisor. You all know and you're really smiling, but that's the whole truth. Now let's ask you about some people and representatives of our diplomatic representations, it's indeed a disaster. These people go because, like that unfortunate anti-Serb, that evil of a man, Radoslav Stojanovic, is going to stab some little girl somewhere, whether she's going to go there to briefing him, to meet Nuys or with such villains. Guys, he can't be that kind of representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12365	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12366	I'm done. You know it all very well. I based on the essence of this, what the chief of staff and advisors should do, illustrating it to you with numerous examples, saying futuristic, but it is a near future, the choice of Tom Nikolic as president, but as I have read to you, it sounds much better, because among you there are people who do both writing and who are linguists and who are professors of literature. Please, Mr. Markovic, consider and accept this amendment to make this member sound better, so that both the head of the cabinet and the advisers of Tomislav Nikolic will be better elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12367	I would like to thank Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS MP and the vice president of the assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word. Did we say there's no notification under Article 225?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12368	Since this article reads "The Councilors of the President of the Republic" and is not a certain number, which areas are there, then I would ask the next parliamentary question, or ask an explanation from the current President of the Republic: how many advisers, as they are called, which areas and how many of them receive a monthly salary? Please let the president and his cabinet answer those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12369	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Proposal to add a new member. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 33a be added after article 33a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12370	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is here about an amendment that actually means introducing a new member into the bill, and that Article 33a would read: "In the event of the death of the former President of the Republic, his spouse is entitled to retire of 75% of the salary of the President of the Republic." So, we said that the President of the Republic is one of the most important institutions in the state and the Constitution is said to represent the Republic of Serbia, it represents the country, it represents all citizens. All citizens are looking at him and the entire international public. The significance of this institution is certainly so great that there is no need to waste words on it. It is also necessary to make an attempt here, in the National Assembly, that the institution be indeed as it should at all times, if necessary by the Serbian state, if necessary by its citizens. Of course, he needs to be created by all conditions so that he can perform his role in the best way possible. It certainly is important that the President of the Republic cannot be anyone. Declaratively, of course, anyone who meets formal conditions can run for President of the Republic. But the President of the Republic should have special integrity, it is known which, and he will certainly, and by his integrity, multiple, vote as a candidate in the election race to reach the seat of the President of the Republic. It deserves attention and what are the conditions for his regular work, but it certainly is important what will be tomorrow, when there is no President of the Republic, which is, of course, regulated and proposed in this bill and what is yet to be said. But, of course, something needs to be done in what are members of his household, which, in this case, is his spouse. In the previous Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic, we have a provision that speaks of the pension of a spouse in the event of the death of the President of the Republic. Far from putting it through an example right now, but this is about a future president of the Republic of Serbia, who unfortunately may die. This, of course, is possible, is a natural process, or fact that can happen. Then, at a time when his spouse, as president of the Republic, legally exercise the right to retire, that pension should, according to what the SPS proposal is, be 75% of the president's salary. I think it is very important to make sure that this institution is honored and that there is one so regular and human and, of course, with great respect for the institution of the President of the Republic, that this too should be respected and taken into account. For these reasons, the SPS proposes acceptance, Mr. Minister, of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12371	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP of the SRS Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12372	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic speaks of how unseriously you have approached the drafting of this text of the law. We spoke yesterday, according to some other amendments, about who you've all placed in the circle of the president's household, which all the privileges of this circle of the president's household. No one knows today, nor will they know when this law is passed, who are members of the president's household under this law. All of these x-rays, ipsylon members are given security just as they are given to the president, privileges to the spouse of the president and through part of the salary, and I don't know what you didn't see coming. And when it comes to something that is completely logical, completely life-saving, because anyone that is in any function simply, the law has to predict it, and you didn't predict it in either election, or resolution, or termination of the president's office -- and the fact that death may occur during a term of office. What happens next? Why didn't you predict, or if you haven't already, why can't you accept this amendment by fellow Milletic Mihajlovic, who is perfectly fit? Especially from the aspect of what you said yesterday and tried to defend all of the amendments that we have endured, which you have not accepted, of course from our unknown reasons or, better yet, from the familiar ones, because you do not want to accept any amendments. We think that, again, what was observed yesterday, you planned this law, that you could freely call it Boris Tadic's law, because you wanted him to follow through this law, and then you met and wrote everything that he and his saint around him and his unknown family, according to your law unknown, which all the privileges can use, and what is appropriate, what is probably accepted and acceptable everywhere in the world, it does not occur to you to accept through these amendments. You're having a bad approach, Mr. Minister, we're going to have a very bad law. I call you once again, it is not too late, vote for this amendment and for all or almost all the amendments that the MPs here tried to explain to you yesterday. I really didn't hear any amendments that I would say were inappropriate, that they couldn't fit into this law, and no amendment had essentially changed the law, on the contrary, each one was governed by the law. The intention of all MPs is obvious, because we all must care that the law on the President of the Republic is a good law, comprehensive, to bring more than once, indeed, here in the third term I am a member of the Parliament and to wait once in this House to pass a law that will not take place in the next three, four or seven months to suffer alterations and complements. It's a waste of time, which you won't listen to the MPs, which you won't accept the amendments, and you're aware of which amendment is good. And then in a few months, we'll have amendments and additions to this law, as we have in many laws where you've put the amendments that are proposed to you during the debate on the law through changes and additions. So, it's only about your vanity, your very bad principle of trying to explain to the Serbian citizens that you don't care about the opposition, that you have your direction, you're pushing it your way. And what that direction of yours means is an increase in unemployment, a real drop in wages and pensions, health problems, issues in education, problems in management, so on all levels, strikes are on all sides, but you'll start running an election campaign and then you'll change this budget proposal that you've already given us to increase profits for all these people. We have no objection to the increase in profits, on the contrary. I still think, Mr. Minister, that it should be uncomfortable for you to be driven by a driver whose salary is 16,000 and your $160,000 or 140,000, here you say, is a $220,000 minister's salary, so nice. So I'm asking you if you're uncomfortable being driven by a driver who has 16,000 salaries and does that mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks it's so little worth your head when he lets you drive by a man who has to think about feeding his family with a salary of 16,000 dinars, without being able to do anything extra because his time is 24 hours. So, you have to and should, you don't have to do anything, of course, but you should think about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the government does not exist because of the ministers, but because of the citizens of Serbia, such as the National Assembly because of the citizens of Serbia, as the citizens of Serbia send us to this parliament to represent their interests. I have yet to hear any MPs, not to call individually, from any party in the parliamentary majority, what the citizens who elected you think about the position of the President of the Republic. I guess you've been telling them something in the election campaign, and I guess the citizens told you in the election campaign -- we expect you to do that, too. Do you keep what you promise citizens in the election campaign? Of course not. You're lying to the citizens in the election campaign and you're getting ready again for this presidential campaign to lie to them. We already know which way, here's the hint, we'll talk about it, of course, in detail. That's not good, ladies and gentlemen. Not that it's not good for you, frankly, I don't care about the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it's not good for the citizens of Serbia. You're exhausting, people, this people. Do you know how many citizens in Serbia live below the existential minimum? Is anyone who rules this country taking care of it? Of course not. You're enough yourself, it's important to you that you live well, that you take care of everything you need. Now you've informed us that you've increased your salary to 220,000, so I don't really know... Here, dear citizens, says Mr. Milan Markovic that every 15 days the government increases salaries. This is really a shock to me, too, and I can think of it as only for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12373	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12374	Ladies and gentlemen, the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act speaks of what Mr Miletic announced in the membership change. So 75% of the spouse gets after his spouse's death. I don't know why Mrs. Veronica didn't say what she was thinking, and I'm gonna say it now. Look what it's all about. Why won't they accept this amendment? Just because they're so insolent and they know theirs will never come for the president of the state again, and then this member won't accept it as an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12375	I thank the People's MP Vuceti Toskovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Name of Chapter 9. National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted an amendment proposing a change in the name of Chapter 9. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Proposal to add a new member. National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 34 be added after article 34. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12376	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have proposed an amendment to add a new article 34a, which reads (for the sake of Serbian citizens): 'Right to the honorary name 'ex-President of the Republic', all presidents of the Republic of Serbia have been elected since 9 December 1990, i.e. from holding the first multilateral elections, as well as the presidents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the presidents of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro who were from the Republic of Serbia'. Why did I propose such an amendment on behalf of the SPS? We already talked about it in the principle debate. I want to do it again here. It's not easy to become president of any state in any system. So someone's presidents, someone's not, but everywhere in the world, the former head of state is a special person. The former head of state is taken care of in a special way by the various services of the country and abroad. They often deal with very useful political and public work at all. One state is a serious state if it can define the status of former head of state in a dignified way, as it has been resolved in every normal state in the world. So there's no exception here. We're asking for nothing more than what any former head of state has in the world. So it's completely clean. If you ask me exactly who this applies to, I'll tell you exactly. It refers to Mr. Dobric Cosic, Mr. Zoran Lilić, Mr. Milan Milutinovic. So these are the former presidents who, based on the acceptance of this amendment, would have this status that the SPS advocates. Of course, and Mr. Kostunica, he was the president of the SRJ. Doberica Ćosic is an academic, well-known writer, doesn't think about a party policy that I belong to any good, and I advocate that he has the status of former president, with all the honors that belong to every former head of state. It is not a question of what his relationship is to us or what our mutual, public or political relationship is. It's at the level of principle, at the level of principle, which should be respected. Please accept this amendment because in this way we are removing certain other problems that will occur in the time that is coming. So it's not expensive for a country to fund this. It's expensive to fund tens of thousands of others who weren't, and they take what they need or otherwise provide much more than I'd like to guarantee these amendments. It's always in Serbia, and when it was a princess, and a kingdom, this is what it's all about. I remind you that Natalija Obrenovic, in Serbia known as'maman', had a royal pasta of six and a half thousand ducats a year and had a castle in Bijarica, which unfortunately our country has failed to return today. I was informed that the Jakovljevic family and other families who proved in court that they were trying to bring this property from France to Serbia in blood relation to Obrenovic, i.e. to have this property. So this isn't gonna piss anyone off, nobody's gonna get on this one. With this amendment, if we accept it all together, we will raise the dignity of these people to the level that presupposes their former function. It's a completely clean position and there's no politics here, there's nothing controversial. This is a polite way to resolve the status of a former head of state who, you will admit, and just because he had insight into the most subtle state and other secrets of one country in a time period, he has the right, and we have a duty to ensure that these people function and help their country in normal conditions. I don't know any of these people who get away from their country, on the contrary. I know that many of these in different international interventions, in different jobs that are not very often and completely public in the way someone would want them to, but these are simply such interventions, doing something that does no harm to the state of Serbia. So that's the point. There's no policy here, no party or any other. We are not in any special relationship with Dobric Cosic or Vojislav Kostunica, so that is why we are now pushing for this to be resolved. We're in good relations with one principle that says this should be solved in this way. If we were to compare how this was resolved in other countries, we would see that this was resolved at a higher level than I propose by amendment, that Article 34a be added after article 34a. who exactly counted all this stuff that I tried to convince you here. I hope so. If you accept this amendment, then we have a correct solution. If you do not accept, then we have a chance to talk about this politically, and we will do so, because then you consider the head of state to be the only one chosen after Vojislav Kostunica, which is the current head of state. If that's true, say it in public. I don't believe you have that opinion, on the contrary. This is something that I fully hope is acceptable to all political parties and we ask you to accept this amendment immediately to shorten the debate and to work on other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12377	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Proposal to add a new subtitle and a new member. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new subtitle and a new member of 38a be added after article 38. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the word wish for MP Miletic Mihajlovic? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12378	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what was the story about the amendment to add a new member of 33a after article 33a, which I was talking about, is practically a continuation of this story, only, of course, it refers to other situations. This amendment reads: After Article 38. The bill adds a new subtitle and a new member of 38a, which reads: 'The rightful spouse of the former President of the Republic. Article 38a – In the event of the death of the former President of the Republic, his spouse shall be entitled to pension of 70% of the President of the Republic's salary. I would just say that such a bill, which we have before us and which regulates the rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, and by doing so, as well as that of its members of the household, including spouses, once improvisation, one indifference in considering all aspects of this matter, only that the ruling structure, which is in power today, thinks it will remain in power for the most part. And not only will they remain in power most of the time, but that she is immortal and that their mandates and their lives will continue indefinitely. It's a beautiful wish, I want God to grant them such a wish, but it's truly unnatural and impossible. So here we are talking about what is the institution of the President of the Republic. The institution is respected, not only in the image of the current president, of any current president at any time, but also after that, in relation to the person who is the former president, in relation to his spouse, etc. Of course, there are many and many aspects left. The other day we had in the press, two days ago more precisely, some texts saying that the SPS and I, as a MP, are proposing Miri Markovic, I don't know, a pension of so much and so much, was given the amount. It's about the addictive media. When I say addictive, I mean it depends on you, gentlemen of the ruling structure, from the ruling coalition. It's a very personal approach, I'd even say it's small-town. I think it only depicts culture and reach the civilization level and certain layers, and certain professions, and certain personalities, who look really in an unacceptable way, which is not at the height of either profession, nor morals, if you will, and however you will. This isn't about Mira Markovic. Then the media had to ask me what I was thinking, or anyone representing the SPS, and explain it to them nicely. Mirjana Markovic achieved her right to retire under the law that was passed. That's a special question. But the law is passed. Of course, laws are respected when it suits you, and they are not respected when you have reason to challenge the constitutional and legal right of another, which is not at your wavelength and is not in your political option. We as a state, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course should respect ourselves. As much as we respect ourselves, says the world, so will others. We deserve respect, but what kind of relationship we had in the past to our rulers, in the earlier period towards kings, later to our presidents, and today, of course, we can't do it and we've shown it in the worst possible way. Maybe that's why, or among other things, many in the world don't respect us, which we don't know how to respect our institutions and personalities that were in those responsible places, etc. But don't expect anything to change with those of you who are on behalf of those institutions today or tomorrow and if it continues. Of course, I personally think and want, as well as the SPS, to break up with such a relationship that is not at the height of culture, nor the attainable civilizational level of the present world, and to respect one another more, to respect our own country, to respect our institutions, and to treat our institutions equally in principle, and to the way we should, to all, no matter who performs a duty at a given time. Let me tell you something. Is it nice at all for Serbia or for Yugoslavia, an earlier state, that Joan of Broz, for example? does not realize what was to be achieved, that it is not worthy, that it is not respected, so, if you will, and Mira Markovic afterwards, etc., that it cannot accomplish what is already the law of it? It's not about this law. It speaks of us as people, it speaks of us as people, of citizens. But first of all, at this point he's talking about you, about a government that has instruments that enforces laws and laws. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you from the ruling coalition had presidents and you will have them. Of course, we'll have them, too. I'm not talking about the rights of a spouse of a particular person right now. I'm talking about the rights of the spouse no matter who was in the position of president or who would be the president of the Republic. The next day, the right to this amendment will be achieved by your president's husband. Of course, I have no intention of being insolent, nor of speaking in such a way. I am speaking in principle and trying to make a contribution, together with the SPS, to the importance of the institution of the President of the Republic, and also to respect what is right to belong to the right spouse of the former president who, for example, has passed away, or who will die at a given time, if it is before the spouse. So the intention is quite simple. In the end, I would like to say that one President of the Republic, no matter who it was, can never be an assembly for the state if it is held by the Constitution and law, if it is on the defender of the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Then he needs to be allowed to do it in the best possible way. And all honors to be given to him and the rights that the law requires him to accomplish, no matter who it is. Such a President of the Republic costs very little, even with these rights that we propose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12379	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Verica Radeta has just informed me – don't mind me, I haven't been in these past days, I haven't been to the assembly session – that Oliver Dulic has scheduled this session, with these two laws, and that he has foreseen parliamentary issues, and then they have been removed from the agenda. That's really scandalous. We have agreed, colleague Mrkonjic, that we will not report to the Rules of Procedure, that was the agreement and the president of the parliamentary groups, but I cannot wait for that moment to ask the parliamentary question who knows when, while we all disband, perhaps this assembly, and we will also have a campaign for the presidential elections. It is one truth that the daily "Justice" today, entitled "No Serbian Tromboe". All of you who read these, one of the most investigative daily newspapers in Serbia, are now able to see and, behold, I am looking, quite accidentally, but it was indeed one of the main arguments and colleagues of the government of Seculic to the law we had recently in the Assembly. Now, colleague Mr. Radosavljevic, I say to my colleague since you are my fellow citizen, you can see how dangerous it is when laws are unarranged and when you do not accept amendments to the SRS. Remember the amendments to Serbian Radicals to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. Remember a member who said the minister would make a special decision, meaning by sublaw, to regulate what flags they are and what features they can bring to football matches, or sports events at all. It's a football game that took place at the Rada Stadium two days ago and it's really amazing, and it's precedent, that fans of that Belgrade club are not... Only after a few hours of persuasion with the police commander, so he doesn't know either, Jocic didn't tell him what to do and what can't be entered. People came in, boys, football fans, and they brought in a Serbian three-boy. Here, look what's behind us. What are we? Serbia. Serbs and citizens living here, loyal citizens who know they appreciate their flag, their coat of arms, their "God of Justice" anthem, their national features. People came to the football game, and this one says, "guys, you can't go in there." They ask why, and he says, "You have a Serbian flag." They say, "What's the problem?" He says you're playing with a New Market club, you can provoke international conflicts. Please, what kind of hypocrisis is that? What country do we live in? You have to make sure that we predict every situation. Here and now, when Radeta's colleague talks about the amendment of counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic, or any other, you know, people, you have to watch what's in the day tomorrow and that's some event that's going to happen sooner or later. What makes all this work, creating unnecessary tension? And just by assembling those people you called hooligans, and like these and like that, there's been a really correct conviction, and I have to tell you, what another mess is in a series of our country that we don't know. And so I ask the question, through Parliament President, Minister Jocic -- did he finally determine which flags they were, did he ban a Serbian trio at the sports events held in Serbia? He had to react to a member of the Russian State Duma in charge of security, a respected colleague, a member of the Security Committee of the Russian Federation's National Duma, it's like us, the Defence and Security Committee. As if one of us who are members of the Committee were to write, imagine a game of Dinamo or some other Moscow club, and someone says: You can't enter at the Lužnjiga Stadium, which is a reverse tricolor, a Russian flag. It would be a scandal unseen. Well, that wouldn't happen to those Russian traitors from Apple or these, as they are now called, the United Forces, this handful of misery, who these days have Western support and are fighting Putin. Please, Mr. Grouchy, and I hope Miss Stenographer wrote it right, to pass it on to Minister Jocic. It really doesn't make sense that these things happen in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12381	I thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. The word has been given by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet, by amendment, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12382	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, all MPs know that when you chair the session, you very often warn MPs not to earn from the bench and I do not understand why you do not have the same relationship when it comes to ministers. I haven't reported to the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to use it very briefly before I talk about the amendment, to warn you that you've violated Article 104 in relation to Article 113. The Rules of Procedure, because just now Mr. Milan Markovic, the minister who sat here, insulted me, you heard it, and you didn't react. Namely, when a colleague from the SRS, Mr Vuceta Toskovic, in his presentation, said, of course, that he did not know why Verica Radeta did not say what she thought (that was in the context), Milan Markovic said: she does not think when she spoke. You heard it and you didn't react. It's an insult, Mr. Grouchy, and it's inadmissible not to react, and of course we will react. I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure for that, but we will certainly speak to Milan Markovic from this point on in line with that statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12383	I accept your criticism. I really didn't hear. I'm sorry. Here you go, speak again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12384	Thank you very much, just please, when the minister returns to distract him publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12385	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12386	Thank you. So, Mr. Mihajlovic, don't expect this amendment of yours to be accepted, as well as that of your previous amendment, as well as the amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic. These amendments are essentially the same, although they are different and we absolutely support all these amendments. I'm going to be really completely open and I'm going to say why this amendment isn't accepted. First, for the sake of the public, I'd like to say that you suggested adding a new Article 38a to the president's law. The title would be "The Right Wife of the Former President of the Republic." You said, "In the event of the death of the former President of the Republic, his spouse has the right to retire at 70% of the salary of the President of the Republic." Your explanation is: "Amendment is established by the right of the spouse of the former President of the Republic to retire in the event of the death of the former President of the Republic, at the height of 70% of the President of the Republic." He says the government doesn't accept that amendment. "We consider," they say, "that it is not necessary to establish the right to retire to the spouse of the former President of the Republic after the death of the former President of the Republic," a good thing that they haven't once again said the former President of the Republic, 'and therefore he is particularly privileged to the other citizens'. There's obviously one word missing here. I guess they thought he had special privileges on other citizens. Why is this amendment not accepted and what is the essence? First, everywhere in the world is normal, and this law predicts that the President of the Republic must simply have certain privileges. We're not talking about any name, we're not talking about any man. The man is the President of the Republic, but we are talking about an institution, something that must be respected by the legislator and that is the case in law, of course the citizens would respect their President of the Republic when he is, and even when he is not. According to our current constitution, and according to the previous one, the President of the Republic is elected in direct elections. It would be the same if the SRS' position was accepted to be elected in parliament, because if we elect someone in parliament, it is elected by MPs, but MPs also represent a large number of citizens who have sent MPs as their representatives to this parliament. So there's no difference, and it's totally irrelevant. But why can this amendment not pass and will neither be accepted by the removed minister nor by the congregation's majority? Because the current assembly DOS majority think the world was created on October 5, 2000. And it wasn't, the world was born long before that. Unfortunately, there has been chaos and evil in Serbia since 5 October 2000, but citizens, we hope, will remove this evil from power and return Serbia to some normal flows. I don't want to say anything around here, as always as Serbian radicals say, but I will speak very directly. Why can't the President of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic and his wife use this right? That is the basic reason why this amendment will not be accepted. Why? Slobodan Milosevic, the late president of the Republic, was killed in The Hague. He went to The Hague by being kidnapped and, contrary to the law, taken to The Hague. The family of Slobodan Milosevic is being persecuted in the most brutal way possible. I remind you, they weren't allowed to come to his funeral either. Slobodan Milosevic's wife can't even accept her pension, which she earned, because, God, she's being sued because she was encouraging some instigator to assign a one-bedroom apartment to someone. So it's completely pointless. I don't want to defend Mira Markovic in any way now, but I am talking about the principle and asking the MPs, and I remind the citizens of Serbia: why can the wife of the murdered Serbian prime minister get to use the villa on Dedinj, and the wife of the murdered president of the Republic can't even get her pension? What's the difference? These five-octobar revolutionaries will say: the people wanted it so, Slobodan Milosevic was wrong about this country, about this people, that's why he was in The Hague, that's why he was killed in The Hague. Of course, they won't say he was killed, but we know he was killed. In this way, he will try to explain that Zoran Djindjic is responsible for democracy, that his widow should enjoy all possible and impossible rights, but I must remind you, those of you who think so, gentlemen, that such thinking lasted from October 5th 2000 until about June 2001. It has already begun significantly to change the situation in Serbia. Today there are many more citizens in Serbia who think that Zoran Djindjic's path was wrong, who think that Zoran Djindjic's policy was criminal and who in no way support that policy and do not think that wife Zoran Djindjic should have some privileges. Many more are aware that Slobodan Milosevic, defending Serbia against the infamous UN war crimes tribunal, was killed there. Those who resented his poor policymaking here in Serbia have forgiven him for his fight against The Hague tribunal. This amendment of yours, colleague Miletic Mihajlovic, will not be adopted for that reason alone. They won't tell you that. There's no one to say it, because all three MPs are the congregation majority here and they don't care what we're talking about here. This is a good amendment and should be accepted. Let's not shake hands, that's what you said to yourself, the name that we're thinking of the president. We think of the president as an institution, we mean someone elected by most Serbian citizens at a certain point. Sometimes it's one policy that's popular with citizens, sometimes it's another policy. The situation is changing. It's perfectly normal in a multiparty system. That's what we all fought for, that's what we all wanted, that's what we got. And it's perfectly normal that there's a change in government, new ideas, ideology, etc. It's something that, I guess, no one has anything. But we can't let someone who was before us function, just because they're from a different political option, we're completely wiped out. That can't be allowed. If you don't mind... To you? I don't even know who I'm talking to anymore, because there's only two of them, I apologize, three DS MPs, and I see you're in the way... And here comes Srdjan, fourth. So it bothers you when we say that Zoran Djindjic's policy was criminal and criminal. That was the attitude of the Serbian Radical Party. We don't mind if you say the opposite, but that is why you allow yourselves to wave colorful balloons on the day of the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, and there is no way for you today to say whether this amendment should be adopted or not. We argue that you should, not look at the fact that this amendment might assign a pension to Mirjana Markovic, because it wouldn't, because that woman herself earned her pension and, therefore, it doesn't matter whether she did or didn't. But don't make a difference. You can't have a widow of one of the officials who's been everything to you and everyone having all the privileges, and we'll talk about it in a day when we have parliamentary issues on the agenda, then I'll ask you specific questions. In any case, I will remind you, to return you in time since 2002, Dr Vojislav Seselj published the book "Stanko Subotic - Cane Frog, King of the Duvan Mafia". That's when you laughed at the ugliness when all you mentioned was the title of that book. Then Stanko Subotić - Cane was the gentleman who gave Zoran Djindjic the plane, to fly his plane and do state affairs, with an explanation that it was cheaper for the state, imagine. That was funny back then. Now, when a certain criminal procedure is launched, it's no longer funny to you. There's a report, so don't worry about it. You are responding, Mr. Milivojevic, because you have read the book of Vojislav Seselj and because you know that the trail of the king of the tobacco mafia, Stanko Subotic - Canet Zapca leads directly to Zoran Djindjic. For this reason, you will not take the polling committee, related to Mr. Miskovic's possible monopoly. Not because you want to protect Miskovic, but because you know that the road from Ceda Jovanovic would lead to Zoran Djindjic. Five million marks, which Miskovic claims to have given to Cedomir Jovanovic -- the question is what would the polling board determine who ended the money in. It is known that at the time, the direct employer to Cedomir Jovanovic was Zoran Djindjic. So these are your real reasons. We have no reason not to talk directly and openly about this. The one who was a high-ranking official – of course, respects the fact of death and respects a certain time when this man is not spoken of – but someone who was a high-ranking life official, too, had to be aware that even after his death he would be told about his character and work. Then let's talk about everyone the same way. Don't let me repeat, forget, Mr. Democrats, that the world was created on October 5, 2000. No, it was a long time ago. What you have done to Serbia since 5 October 2000 until today will not be forgotten by the citizens of Serbia. You'll see it in the next election. This amendment I suggest you accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12387	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12388	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. We live in a country that doesn't guarantee the level of rights acquired. So, there are a few dozen people in Serbia who cannot exercise a fundamental right to receive a pension, because, let's say, someone in the state won't do it or because the UN tribunal said so. There is no country in the world that can issue an order for a citizen who has obtained the right to retire (at five or six basics, this right is exercised; it can be personal, family, disability, etc...that he can't receive it. So, the state where it happens -- it's not a state, and the citizens in that country don't have legal certainty. I remind you that there are MPs here who are retired and, while they are MPs, they receive full pension and plus that pension receive everything they receive from the Rules of Procedure and every other MP. His pension doesn't shrink because he's a national MP, because it's acquired the right. And what are you doing here? You say you don't like this guy or that guy, and he can't get paid for his pension. Where is it in the world? How can we talk about this today in the 20th century? Retirement rights were granted 100 years ago. Ask someone if they've got it somewhere. There were other examples of me not taking the time, we can talk about it as much as you want. So it can't be that when someone doesn't like someone, when someone has political reasons, when someone has personal reasons, they make a list. The U.S. administration can say: I don't let them enter my country, from here to here, 500 and some names. This can be done by the state of America compared to our citizens who want to go in there. But our country can't tell its citizens: you don't have the right to receive a pension. And you're doing it. Now you're doing it. For everyone on the UN tribunal's indictment, who is a pensioner, you say: his property is frozen and he has no pension. Who gave you that right? Retirement is retirement. They'll spend it on a lawyer, on a family, to buy peanuts -- that's his thing, that's his pension. And you serve someone's interest by being courteous and saying, "No, no, we're not giving them a pension as long as they're there." Excuse me, gentlemen, there are 50 lawyers here. Those indicted in The Hague tribunal and those who are there, and those who are being prosecuted, who want to arrest The Hague tribunal, are innocent until the quasi-sud says they are guilty. By that time, no one can say that Jankovic cannot receive his pension he has earned. And you're doing it now. At least 100 citizens of Serbia who have the problem I'm talking about. So let's say once again exactly what's on the subject here. They mentioned colleagues, there is an executive court ruling in this country, for four years, that Jovanka Broz can get the right to her shoes that she once had. It doesn't matter who took her, there's an executive court ruling. Phila's law firm conducted the procedure and won it and executed it. She can't get any photos, no shoes, no ring she ever got private from someone. How is that possible? Is this a state or not a state? What's the problem? Is the state threatened that someone will get their possessions or that the former president's wife will be entitled to 70% of the salary of the President of the Republic (or spouse, may also be a spouse, however)? No, but you will shine like little children: in-ta-ta, die, crack, do not give – whatever you will. They won't die hungry. That's not what this is about. It wasn't even Mr. Mihajlovic's amendment. Miletic Mihajlovic, on behalf of the SPS, submitted an amendment to resolve this once and for all. Mrs. Radeta said what your arches were like. How can someone 300 square feet in Užička and someone can't even take their pension? Come on, guys, please, what are you talking about here? How is that possible? Someone can have 500 advisors and I don't know what else, etc., to fund them informally from informal funds, and later we find out they're from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and someone can't claim their pension. That's the theme here. If you can't call it a real name, if you won't, and if you can't, that's another question, but these are facts. And we ask you to accept this amendment, so prove to us that what I said, take a stenogram and read carefully what I said, and then say, "Here, we are doing this to stop it, to stop the chican, to stop revolutionary justice, to stop revenge." But you won't. You're wrong, Mrs. Radeta. On October 5th, the world came into existence. The world of the underworld came into existence, because then the underworld took over the state. It's not half-world, these are educated people who are in contact with the underworld. What's this about? Return the paintings to the blue salon of Prince Pavel Karadjordjevic in the National Assembly, return everything taken from Belgrade on October 5th, and we will trust you. There are 106 pictures missing from the Federal Assembly building today – Šumanović, Konjović and others. Where are the pictures? They didn't burn, they went where they went. Half of them are in Athens at Chuck's.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12389	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miletic Mihajlovic and the National MP Slobodan Maras appeared, and then, after the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12390	I'll use the line. I just want to say, two days ago, I guess the SPS, and I, myself, as the applicant of this amendment, should have been ashamed because the journalists, so they saw, thought and wrote that I advocated the pension of Mira Markovic. Let me tell you, I'm not giving up Mira Markovic. I respect her very much as the wife of the former president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the SRJ. What the SPS is talking about is that the late president's spouse is respected, which means that Mira Markovic should also be respected. There's no dilemma about it. I guess that's the elemental culture that we all have to perform with. At least that's how it works in a civilized world. So when it comes to acquired rights, that is, the law tries to regulate some of the rights of former presidents, spouses, etc., that should apply to all former presidents. This was proposed here, beginning with Dobrica Cosic, who was the president of the SRJ, through Zoran Lilic, then President Milutinovic, then SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, Svetozar Marovic, who was the president of the state union. Secondly, acquired rights belonging to Mira Markovic, if we mention her, under the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, should be confirmed through this law or that even these rights are more examples of the real importance of the institution of the President of the Republic because, by giving rights to the spouses of the former presidents, we are, in fact, showing what is important to the institution of the President of the Republic. If you're already talking about being tolerated, having a broad democratic capacity, show it in action, and show it in action, and what's elemental, and what comes from the essence of these proposals, show humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12391	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12392	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, member of the 104th Rules of Procedure, to present a letter from Ms. Radeta. First of all, I would just look back at what Mr. Baralić just said, and we've heard more than once today - where are the pictures. Where is ten years of the lives of the citizens of this country during the 1990s? You're talking about some pictures, and where has our life spent ten years in the 1990s on account of the policy your party president led? You, Mrs. Radeta, have tried to do something that is extremely incorrect. You said the ruling majority would not set up a polling committee on Delta's business, or political influence by the company on the country's political life. You said that the reason it might have been discovered that five million marks, which the criminal said had given to the president of our party, might have gone into the hands of the late Prime Minister Djindjic. It's a shame you made that statement. You know it's not like that. Why didn't you support the work and establishment of this polling committee at the meeting of the heads of parliament, but now you're here to tell citizens a completely incorrect story? What happened on March 12th? Do you remember? Who went to see your party president for a pigsty when Prime Minister Djindjic was killed? Do you remember that? And you, Mr. Milivoevich, and the rest of the DS, how long are you going to put up with this? For days, it has been mentioned that October 5th is the greatest evil. Well, October 5th, thanks to citizens, has led to some changes in this country, and Serbia has begun to take the road to a normal state. Unfortunately, March 12th has been stopped. I'm really asking you to take care of the way we talk here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12393	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic came forward, and then Nebojsa Rangelovic, and Mrs Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12394	I answered on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to answer one of these questions asked by my colleague, Marash. Comrade Maras, if you were in Serbia in the 1990s, then you lived like all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you lived somewhere else, then tell us a little bit about your experiences, because the life of a vast number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia was conditioned in the Republic of Serbia. Those who finance parties similar to yours and who have exhibits in this country, who speak Western country politics, were responsible for the situation. Remember, Mr. Maras, if you don't already know, that I remind you, that sanctions were imposed on Serbia on May 31st 1992 for supporting the Serbian people through Drina, for an imaginary crime, which was proven after a few years. Remember, Mr. Maras, that those countries that support your party and individuals in your party who certainly, both logistically and financially, are in a bad way supporting, that they have led the campaign against both Serbia and the Serb people and that those crimes in which innocent people have been attributed to Serbs in other places, that they have led the Serbian people's bombing in Republika Srpska, that they have led logistically and in any other way, those actions that led to the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Croatia in 1994 and 1995. Remember, Mr. Maras, that they have achieved the stated goal, which Tudjman set for them, that the number of Serbs in Croatia is down from 12.4% to 3.8%, to make them, unfortunately, an insignificant factor in the structure of the population of Croatia and, according to them, that they can no longer be a remethyling factor for the state of Croatia. Remember, Mr. Maras, that those countries that support your party and individuals in your party challenged Racak and created a cause for the bombing of our country in 1998. Then remember, Mr. Marash, that these parties and these countries and financial aided October 5th. And it is, the greatest evil in the history of the Serbian people is October 5th, because it was not a spontaneous expression of the people due to some alleged dissatisfaction, but a well-organised action planned months ahead in the Belgrade City Assembly and led by the late Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic. If you don't believe me, read the book and what he wrote about October 5th, and you will see that he sat in the White Court and agreed to turn the elections into a spontaneous expression of the people against allegedly stolen elections. Who was given orders to control the army, who went with the police, who prevented Belgrade from the south, who's from the north, who's from the west? You will get many, many interesting answers. There he is, Mr. Milivojevic admits to being from the south. What was the Resistance doing in Budapest, how did they get money for this supposed political activity? How did they get back with bags of money? So tell us about the age. After all, we enter 2008 in a few days (Mr. Chairman, one more sentence). We have lived in a very difficult decade because we have been punished by the international community for the policy we have led. Since October 5th, we are free, independent, independent, democratic, transparent, open in every way, state, so look where we are, look at the results. But don't compare the economic results to the 1990s and the sanctions, but show us what it's done. Serbia has been robbed, humiliated, and its country is being kidnapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12395	Thank you. Word came to mind, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12396	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, few colleagues and colleagues spoke about the reasons for, and which against, the polling committee. I don't understand why there are reasons against the board of inquiry. If what the LDP claims is true, then it is necessary to make the survey board, to determine the truth and thus expose and remove the crime team from the political scene, both from the economic and any other social scene in Serbia. If that's not true, there's a unique opportunity for you to tell us one more time, but now you're argumentatively saying you're wrong, and it's as true as what you were saying about LDP. I'd like to hear, from this pay phone and in general, one serious reason why someone is against forming a survey board. A respected colleague of Radeta said that the ruling coalition is against the formation of a polling committee. I didn't understand why they were radicals against the formation of a survey board, and as long as they hide behind moral flossules, they will appear from this pay phone as an absolute image of morality, and on the other hand they will boast with a coffee drunk at Mr. Miskovic's. That's really not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12397	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12398	Thank you. This is a replica. You've told the Rules of Procedure, but this is a replica to Mr. Marash. First of all, my colleague, Marash, I am a National MP, and I would ask everyone to call me that. You asked what happened to your life for 10 years. I don't know what 10 years you've been thinking about, and I don't see what's wrong with your life. Everyone who complains about that period, you were very young and I don't know just when you managed to become successful, many and rich, etc.? How come someone stopped you in those last 10 years of that century? But I ask you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia: what about seven years since 5 October 2000? It's no longer worth it to you. You know, you could've been half a year, a year, and two years to talk about something past, but you're seven years, you're the dossal authority, no matter how much you're fighting now, you're all the same with the same ideas you've come up with. You said, "I'm asking you who went to your president's pig house on March 12, 2003." It's a shame, Mr. Marash, that you have so little information at your disposal. Prof. Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague since 24 February 2003 and certainly could not, nor would he celebrate the murder of Zoran Djindjic, as Serbian radicals have not done. Unlike you, when someone dies, we don't wave colorful balloons. We're just, unlike you, not hypocritical. You can't make us say that Zoran Djindjic's policy was good. We've always thought ill of Zoran Djindjic's politics, and we can't talk any different now that he's no longer alive. That's the point. So, we're not looking forward to it, and we weren't looking forward to anybody's death, but we weren't being hypocritical. What you want now to fight with DS for Zoran Djindjic's legacy, the struggle now between Ceda and Boris, which your voters will believe is closer to Zoran Djindjic, that's your problem, that's absolutely not touching us. You fight your fight the way you think it's best. And as for the polling committee and your actions in relation to Mr Miskovic and Miskovic, compared to Mr Cedo Jovanovic, here, we call on the competent authorities to resolve this dilemma in the right and the legal way as soon as possible. But I repeat, the authorities won't allow it, because DOS still has a major impact on both the prosecution and the law enforcement and the judiciary at all. They won't allow it because they know that the road from Chad leads to Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12399	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Slobodan Maras, and then the People's Messenger Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I, the Witch of Radeta, will tell you, dear colleague, who was at the pigsty at Mr. Seselj's on March 12th. I know when he voluntarily surrendered to The Hague tribunal, i.e. I know that he was then in The Hague tribunal, but at the time, at his invitation, in honor of killing Prime Minister Djindjic, they were the killers of the Serb people Naser Oric, Tuta and other criminals. You know that because he boasted about it. When they were to question him about his involvement in the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, then your party president, Mr. Seselj, said: yes, I did so on March 12th for that. And he led witnesses who were all guests. And why he was not responsible for his involvement – that is because he is in The Hague. I came out provoked by what you said, that the polling board was not founded because the ruling majority did not want to determine the involvement in Miskovic's abduction to prove that the money was actually going to the late Prime Minister Djindjic. You know it's a lie. And we're ready, our president has repeatedly testified, five convictions made in his favor, only that the media in this country won't announce, in which every time he's proven innocent of everything they've accused him of and went to Central Prison. All those security guards you pulled from Central Prison to testify in court said they'd never seen him there, all 11 of them. He's the only one who went to the polygraph. Just one more question. If you are so moral and so much in favour of some values in this country and in our lives, why not support the establishment of a survey committee, but rather the deputy president of your party publicly boasts that he drinks coffee once a month with the owner of Serbia, i.e. Mr. Miskovic? I think there's a reason why you're against setting up a survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12401	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word is by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, also by the Rules of Procedure, and then probably by the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104 to respond, first of all, to Mr. Marash. Mr. Maras, we discussed on the Committee on Abuses in the Serbian Market and Monopolies ruling on it, but, Mr. Maras, and then I told you and now I want to tell you, the SPS has supported the formation of a polling committee, but not out of the selfish and interest of your party to deal with one of the people you consider to be a monopoly. The SPS has a clear view on this. The formation of a survey committee is only supported for reasons to determine the monopoly of all tycoons in the Republic of Serbia. Not one, not two, but all. The only reason why we support the formation of these polling committees is to determine who has the monopoly, and to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from establishing that monopoly, namely that these monopolies would lose that monopoly and that normal conditions such as those in all regulated economies would prevail on this market. This is a very important difference between supporting the formation of your party's poll committee and the SPS. There is also a significant difference, which is why the SPS, and myself personally, on the Committee on Trade and Tourism, supported the view that there was pressure on the Antimonopolis Commission. You wanted to prove that Miskovic is doing it, and we wanted to prove that it is done not on behalf of only one man, but on behalf of all tycoons, and on behalf of the Serbian citizens. The policy of the SPS and this parliamentary club is that all Serbian citizens benefit from what we are doing and we think that the SPS, by its push for the establishment of the polling committee, has made it clear that it has the interest of citizens in the first place, that the party's policies and interests are not above the citizens' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12403	I thank the People's MP, Zeljko Vasiljevic. I'm taking a break until 3:00. Please, after that goes this order you gave: Mr Milivojevic, Mrs Radeta, Mr Migati, Maras and Natasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12405	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a replica of the presentation of MP Slobodan Maraš, who, in the afternoon part of the session, presented a series of insults and lies at the expense of the SRS and our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. First of all, I would like to remind you, since Mr. Maras was moved by my comment on Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr. Miskovic and my assumption that the appropriate actions against Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic are not being conducted because he is afraid that the road from Cedomir Jovanovic will lead to Zoran Djindjic, I mentioned those five million marks, which Mr. Miskovic claims to have won Cedomir Jovanovic after his abduction, Mr. Maras said that I had said that the money had all gone to Djindjic. That's not true, I was just wondering how much of that money ended up at Chad's and how much of his employer's. Furthermore, Mr. Maras said that we were taking some witnesses out of prison against Cedomir Jovanovic and that nothing against him could be proved. I really don't know what he meant, what witnesses, from which prison. With that SRS absolutely never had anything to do with it. The fact that the indictment against Vojislav Seselj was written by Zoran Djindjic, along with Natas Kandic, Nebojsa Covic and Goran Svilanovic, is something that we always talk about and, of course, remain in every place to talk about. But Mr. Maras said our president was celebrating after the murder of Zoran Djindjic in The Hague tribunal, that he ordered and that they ate the pig on-Tuta, Dr. Vojislav Seselj and Naser Oric, as he said, Tuta, who was in The Hague tribunal for killing Serbs. Of course, at first, that is not true, he is accused in The Hague tribunal of killing Muslims. And as for Naser Oric, imagine which, I must say, stupidity was spoken by Mr Maras when he said that Naser Oric was eating pork in The Hague. The only thing about pigs and The Hague tribunal is the fact that the UN Secretariat of The Hague tribunal brought a pig to honor Muslims during one of the Bayrams, and that is what Vojislav Seselj wrote the book The Hague Bayram Pig. I am interested that Mr Maras did not think to ask what we Serbian radicals are publicly asking - which is why Naser Oric received such a small sentence in The Hague tribunal and what is the role of Naser Oric in the capture of Serbs indicted for war crimes in Republika Srpska. We know, we have information that Naser Oric is actively involved in this, and if someone really wants to speak in principle, then we should talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12406	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. The total time for the SRS is three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of MP Miletic Mihajlovic is absolutely legal, is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, is in line with some basic human and moral standards. As MP Verica Radeta said, history in Serbia has not started since 5 October 2000. It was until then that the president of the Republic, who was also elected under some laws, even the first president of the Republic of Serbia, the late Slobodan Milosevic, was elected as President of the Republic in 1990 with so many votes that no candidate in question won the number of votes in half. On this occasion, we do not defend Mirjana Markovic's character or any other wife of any former President of the Republic. It's about one elemental principle. A multi-party democratic system was established in the Republic of Serbia in 1990. That same year, the constitution was then in force, and in December 1990, the first elections for MPs were also for the president of the Republic. I suppose it would be some elemental order that, when it comes to the rights of the former presidents of the Republic, or their wives, these rights have been in progress since 1990. As for Mrs. Jagoda, you're a doctor, you don't understand the retroactivity, but here's what I'm going to try to explain. Okay, you "yellow" know everything, you just don't know what you need to know. When this assembly adopts the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Servants, Mrs. Jorga, for your information, then Mr. Milan Markovic here has publicly admitted: well, he says it is retroactive, but you know, what you're going to do, we don't have time, no competitions for civil servants, we will knowingly crush the constitutional norm that prohibits retroactiveness, but, you know, what you're going to do, we're in a time frame and that's how it has to be. That was his main explanation. That's when you kept your mouth shut. Now that we're talking about the rights of the former presidents of the Republic, you're laughing, but I'm telling you that one former president of the Republic of Serbia has been killed manically in the Hague tribunal. That might be funny to you. We don't think it's funny. The man was heroically defending Serbia and the Serb people. No matter what we said about him while we were opposition, the fact is -- while he was in The Hague, he absolutely did not accuse any single Serb. He defended the Serbian people, defended Serbia's positions and was killed in The Hague. As far as pension rights are concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats, let me remind you, today's SR Germany, which is your great political mentor, out of its budget and today, paying pensions to former Vermacht members, therefore, of the German army at the time of Hitler, who committed mass crimes, including in Serbia. I don't know how you don't mind. I don't know how it is that Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic are more of a danger than former Vermacht members who fired at Kragujevac, Kraljev, Šapac, etc. You see, there has been a huge controversy here about not admitting the rights of the former president of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic. On the other hand, you saw yesterday, defending the character and the work of Natasha Kandic. Yesterday, I was just quoting those attributes that Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in the title of his latest book, gave her. Otherwise, it is about this lady who, among other things, made the following statements - I am for the unique Bosnia and Herzegovina without entities, with great local autonomy; Kosovo has been de facto independent of Serbia since June 1999, but it must bear an official seal; I will not vote in favour of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because it implies a territorial claim by Serbia towards others, here I think of Kosovo above all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is this Natasa Kandic, whose character and work is being defended here, and here she is chosen by Professor Vojislav Seselj as an example of the evil which was created in 1992 by the fake Croatian affair, in order to establish a balance between the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman and the political regime that was then in force in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12408	Mr. Martinovic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12409	Mr. Dulic, there's something else I have to say for the public. The same Natasa Kandic received a medal this year from the new Ustasha chief of staff, Stjepan Mesic. That epithet that Professor Vojislav Seselj gave her in his book is absolutely not offensive to her. I don't know why you thought she was offended yesterday. From how she behaves and from how she works against Serbia and the Serbian people, I think she is very proud of that attribute from the title of the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12410	Thank you. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic has submitted an amendment to Article 41 on behalf of the SPS. The bill also proposes that this member be changed. I apologize on behalf of Mr. Bajatovic, who, for good reason, cannot defend his amendment. He's on another assignment now. We also discussed in principle that the head of state should have security, and when we say security, we mean that he and the members of his family are safe, because the head of state was doing a job that was extremely subtle and delicate while he was in office. But there are state reasons here. There may be heads of state who have some ambitions to deal with illicit affairs when their mandate ends. It is not wrong for the government to have a legal tool available in a formal sense, and it is a member of this law if you accept such an amendment, that it is simply sometimes found near the former president, although I do not believe that there are such in this country, but you never know. Why? Because, you've seen from recent history, and also from ancient times, government and state presidents have information of valuable content in the fate of the state and the people. Compared to how they behave, the state could, in a sense, be interested and where they are moving and who they are meeting with. But that's not the basic thing. The basic question here is whether someone who may have a special interest in such a man, therefore the former president, is kidnapping him, to extort him from recognition regarding certain knowledge he has or that in this way the country, whose former president he was, is evil. By accepting this amendment, this security risk would be eliminated. If you look at the laws on the presidents of some of our neighbouring countries, you will see that there is exactly the same provision as Mr. Bajatovic suggested by the amendment. The amendment says, "The former President of the Republic has the right to provide life security by police and the Serbian Army." So here we said the former president was right, we didn't say the state was doing it all the time if he didn't agree. It's a thing that in a particular situation here some of it would happen. I suppose you can accept this amendment because it better regulates the text of the basic law and because it reduces security risks throughout the former president and members of his family, but also provides a state position in a better way, because it is not a bad idea that the competent services that exist in each democratic state and in other countries know what the movements of the former President of the Republic are like, with whom he meets. I don't think he's being secretly followed, God forbid, but simply to know what his activities are. The normal states, we talked about this before noon, former presidents, former heads of state used for public, cultural, political needs and their action, are always meaningful and I did not really have the intention, nor did Mr. Bajatovic, to question any of the former presidents in any way, but only to allow them to have what we have proposed to other amendments: that the former president of Serbia, both the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro have the appropriate status and that, based on that status, they also have the right to provide security. Otherwise, something's going to happen that's not good for the country. I believe that the state of seriousness in this matter could prove by accepting this amendment. Of course, if you don't want to -- that's another question, but I remind you that in every country that's neighbouring to us today, this is regulated in this way and that the former president of the state is never a private person again, or is not just a private person, he's a former head of state and, as such, they belong to him with proper honor, proper status and security. In that sense, this amendment was submitted by Mr. Bajatovic and we ask you to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12412	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the SRS is concerned, we don't think Article 41 is good, and we think the state has to take care of its former presidents. After all, it is a practice in many countries of the world. Mr. Bajatovic's amendment, in our opinion, should only be with this first, or member to read: The former President of the Republic has the right to life security by police and the Serbian Army. This second part of the amendment is not good. Here, I'll try to explain to you why it's not good. Anyone who enters the presidential race and gets elected by the people as president automatically accepts certain obligations. He's not a private person anymore. Not just while he's president, but for the rest of his life. Whether he is threatened or not, he has no right to request that security be withdrawn because the state is responsible for him. That's why the state has to give him security all the time. That's one thing. The other thing is, he's not even able to have all the information on whether his life is in danger or not. Even the state doesn't have that notice. Because you can assume that someone, a person who is ill, who has health problems, mental problems, will try to hurt and deprive the former president of life. These are objective possibilities, i.e. cases that happen. Therefore, in no case would it be good to accept a completely similar amendment, i.e. the 2nd position would have to be deleted. What's the problem here, too? We meet again with the arguments of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I really can't find a single explanation for why the amendment was rejected and it was too much. The explanation of why Mr. Bajatovic's amendment is not accepted says: "Amendment is not accepted. We do not feel that it is necessary for the former President of the Republic to have the right to long-term security and that the solution contained in the bill is more flexible and more subject to change in security estimates. '"Why didn't they explain? Is someone in the government controlling what you're sending to the National Assembly? Who thinks so, based on what analysis? Has anyone made expertise, has anyone made any assessment of Serbia, compared to another country, where it will give us reasons that suggest that this argument would be acceptable in any way to the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly? No, I don't. This shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely not interested in amendments or that those who are considering amendments and writing reasons are not up to their job. This sort of explanation is underestimating the Assembly. Among other things, yesterday I read an explanation about some members where the minister laughs because apparently he didn't write these arguments, but given the circumstances and since the government's proposal under this law has to sit and listen to everything that would otherwise, that in the MPs' benches, he was extremely fiercely attacked and argued and disproved all of this. That's why I think this amendment as it is proposed is not good, but it's not a good member of the law either. We must once cease to have a picture of the man we write the law for in front of us. We simply have to write a law of completely general character, where at no time will any political reasons be seen. In general, there is a problem with the whole law that every member is pursuing the wish of a legislator to provide himself with an arbitration role, that he assesses whether he should do this or not. That's wrong. Not just for this law, but for every law. The law has to be precise and clear and to be general, not because we think it's gonna be someone or write for someone, so if it is, it's going to be applied like this, and if it's someone else, then we're going to apply it in a different way. I have one more thing to say. If we had respected the Law on the President of the Republic, we would not have come to the situation we came to with the former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic. We can politically agree or disagree, we can at one point think that something is justified or not, but by such a gesture we, as a state, as a people, have done ourselves a bear favor. We have made ourselves a grave shame and a disgrace that will follow us through history. I understand if there was a need or if there's a need to be tried by any president, normally on legal grounds, then that's what this country should do. How come it didn't occur to you? Imagine if your children were to raise neighbors and enforce sanctions. How many times have you been in a position, come on, tell the neighbor: if my child has done something wrong, come and tell me, but don't you enforce the sanctions. There, because of these harmless things and the situation in life, a man takes care to protect his dignity, his family's dignity, to possess authority. What did you do? You have kidnapped the SRJ president in the most shameless way, although a contract was practically signed that he would not be handed over to The Hague tribunal, and handed it over to The Hague tribunal. Believe me, many, in all reactions at the time, can tell you that since I'm in transport, I've been given this by drivers, who felt miserable and miserable at the borders they were crossing, no matter where they were, whether they were in Germany, the Czech Republic, because they made fun of them and underestimated them because they came from the state that handed their president over to The Hague. That is why we need to pass laws that will never put us in a position to underestimate ourselves, to bring ourselves to a pillar of shame. We should not be guided by political reasons, we should be guided solely by the reasons and interests of the preservation of our country and the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12414	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12415	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, explaining Mr. Dusan Bajatovic's amendment to the SPS parliamentary group, I must say that the refusal of his amendment and an explanation for this refusal by the government is totally unacceptable for us. However, I must say that this attitude has occurred as a result of one delusion that Serbia has export personnel, that Serbia has people who are skilled in all areas of the past and that we can waste them and spend them on such unloved people and not save them. I have to tell you, otherwise you're aware of that, that the President of the Republic, doing its job, whether four or five or two mandates, for 10 years, really acquires enormous experience and great knowledge in performing these functions. We know that the president, by performing these state functions, meets the most important people in the world, is running some negotiations with them and really establishing a relationship that doesn't have to be friendly, but the relationship of acquaintance exists anyway. We are, as a state, obliged, especially in these difficult times, to make the most of all our former presidents in carrying out a diplomatic mission and to achieve the better position of this country and this nation in the world. For this reason, we are obliged, as a people and as a state, to treat the former president with due respect and to do everything to show the world how much we respect him and how much more he can be influential, not in a formal sense, because he is no longer acting as president, but in that personal sense he can truly have great support for citizens and that a large number of citizens may still consider that former president as their president. Therefore, Mr Dusan Bajatovic and all former presidents should really accept the amendment and show them respect for the state by allowing them to be the security people around them, allowing them to have their own driver and, I don't know, another secretary who will perform some functions for them and help them do these for the state still very important jobs. The material resources that need to be provided by accepting such an amendment are indeed insignificant because, if we look at how many advisers individual ministers and officials have at a much lower and much less important state functions, whose salaries are enormously, far higher than the pay of MPs, then really financial resources for not accepting such an amendment can't be a reason. Simply, there is a reason not to understand the opportunities of former presidents to help this country achieve some diplomatic initiatives and to improve the position of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12416	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 42nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milosav Milickovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic. I shall inform the MPs that, in accordance with Article 85 paragraph 5, we will also work after 1800 hours per item of the agenda, which will be on the agenda at that time, not longer than 2200 hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 43 refers to the position of the President of the Republic that has been resolved. He's got two bets. In the first position of the bill, it is said that the President of the Republic who has been authorised has no right under this law to have a former President of the Republic and in the second position it is said that the National Assembly may, in a decision on the resolution of the President of the Republic, determine that the President of the Republic who has been granted an individual or all rights that the former President of the Republic has under this law. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment, it has one position. Article 43 is amended and reads as follows: "The President of the Republic who is relieved has all the rights and obligations that the former President of the Republic has under this law." Why? That I consider this amendment to be the right speeches and attitude 2. The bill and it is definitely clear that the President of the Republic is elected by citizens in the direct elections, and if so, why would they allow a two-thirds majority or any other majority of MPs to restrict or deny these rights to the former president. So, and the resolved president is the former president. Speaking of this point, I can't help but look back at what this Dossier regime brought to us on October 5th, and I'm also marking it as the biggest culprit for all of this that's been happening to the Serbian people for these seven years, Prime Minister Kostunica. Why? First, he allowed himself to be placed on the DOS list as a candidate for president in those elections, and it was, they thought, citizens, and later it was seen that they were deceived, that he was clean cheek, clean hands, etc., and in fact he was guilty of allowing all the authorities to take over the DS, headed by Zoran Djindjic, when he immediately after the victory and the still unfinished republican elections for the republican parliament, declared himself prime minister. That's when he kept his mouth shut. Furthermore, he allowed the system to be introduced then -- if one of them is the president, the other to be prime minister. It's defeating that agreed policy that brought us here. Then, Kostunica is also responsible for kidnapping, arresting and sending former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic, on Vidovdan, to indeed prove absolutely that we are humiliating our own citizens, both at times and our own people. That's even more weight. The next thing you know is that the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milan Milutinovic, has been blackmailed by Kostunica's promise that the state will help him in The Hague today, and you have seen how our state treats its citizens in The Hague. Of course, the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as you know, respected citizens, surrendered himself and left without letting anyone manipulate his name, his guilt, etc. Of course, the party's president never expected any help, no contact from this government, but I mark Kostunica as the most responsible and because he blackmails all political opponents by opening up some affairs and never ends them. It's known that the bankruptcy mob is directly aimed at the control of the DS, the Road Mafia is directly aimed at the control of the NS, the affair of the suitcase, directly at the control of one opposition party, this time the SPS, and I'm not talking anymore. If he had a desire to deal with crime, he'd be counting himself to the end and at least one affair would lead to the end. He doesn't want it. He also proved his inaccuracy and his cunning when deputy president of Serbia's largest political party and the largest parliamentary group in the republican parliament were deceived by agreeing, and Tomislav Nikolic believed he would remain president of this parliament, for which the SRS did not care much, but simply it was the choice of citizens, and then he cheated there. So, the greatest evil, I say, is Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12418	Mr. Milickovic, please take care of how you express yourself at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12419	As soon as you, Mr. Albianic, come, make a problem in the Assembly. I express my view and convince the MPs why all rights should remain with the former president who has been resolved, that this does not depend on the will of the parliamentary majority. Of course, the G17 controls through all these affairs, whether someone likes it or not. So I call on the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment that I have explained. The attitude proposed by the SRS is that it is fairer that the President is also the ex-president and that he has all the rights under this law, than that, in the second position of Article 43. The bill says MPs are determined, and I note once again that the President of the Republic was elected by citizens in the direct elections, not parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12420	National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12421	Just for a little while. The SPS controls its membership, its authorities and its leadership. There is no procedure or any affair that manages the SPS. For everything he does, he risks to his members, both present and future, and pays every price in the election. So no state authority today in Serbia, and there have been attempts in the past, in no way controlled by the SAA, nor controlled by any other foreign state or foreign service, nor is any other state or foreign service financed. The SPS is funded by members and sympathisers and financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. The country's last serious attempt to control the state security service was the so-called "SPS". Branislav Ivkovic's attempt, which I told him about and now I repeat to him: The SPS is organized as a bee society. There were a few people here who knew nothing about bees, so they talked about it at random. The bees never flew after the drone, which is Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12422	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12423	Mr. Baralic, I have to start with this from the end. Looks like some drones are flying the drone. You seem to know only one kind of bee. Therefore, do not generalize it or be on the basis that the exceptions confirm the rule. I answered for another reason. Mr Baralic, at least you from this pay phone, not just you, but more or less every MP is expressing his political views when it comes to other political parties and certain events, among other things, and in the afternoon debate, we had the opportunity to hear that on the basis of some assumptions we are making a certain conclusion. Whether he's right or wrong, it's now a matter of time or possibly a moment when we're going to get into a situation to support it with evidence. A good part of the afternoon debate was being conducted about us insisting or waiting for a moment to come up with certain evidence that, after seven years, Serbian citizens should, in some way, shed light on the previous period of these seven years. The SRS MP is perfectly legitimate, maybe he's wrong, I won't argue at all or say he is right, but there are certain facts and no one has disproved those facts. It's that "affer suitcase" that retreats as much as it retreats. Now, objectively, we can and we have a legitimate right to do so, if we honor Simic, member G17 or what, we can also honor other actors in this affair. Therefore, we had no intention of accusing anyone, as it were, without evidence or without any reasoned facts. The affair was there, the affair wasn't resolved, you have to confirm it, or someone has to answer for a lie. It can't be both. If everything that was in the paper was incorrect, if staying in Simic's prison was illegal, someone has to answer for it. I think you're okay with that. Or a deal was made. Why didn't Simic sue the state for being in jail for a month or how many days? For what? They're objective facts. Whether these facts are justified in order for us to reach one or another conclusion, we can argue on that. But in a way, to prevent us from making certain conclusions based on such facts, I don't think it's correct, because that's what we all serve only in situations where it suits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12424	National MP Rajko Baralic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12425	If someone carefully analyzed what I said, he would have to conclude exactly that I didn't have a moment in my life with either of you, absolutely. I just said, I repeat again, there is no political force, and no service, public or secret, and no power centre, financial or other, which at this time controls the SPS, and that is the legitimate position of the SPS. I do not dispute at all any MP the right to say anything about this speaker or elsewhere. So it's a political struggle. You shoot at the goal. We have a goalie. If we didn't have it, we wouldn't be here. I have to say that this goal defends itself from day to day, and that, too, I mean, the shooters are getting better and better, nothing here is disputed. My job is to defend my network and I will defend it with my colleagues, in a way that meets the interests and needs of a political programme called the SP, its membership and supporters and the potential electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12426	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, following the amendment of MP Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milickovic would not be right, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if such a member of the law were to be accepted, which defines the position of the President of the Republic who was resolved, without its amendment, would violate and step out of its constitutional powers. I would ask you, dear colleagues, to look at what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing and when and under what conditions the President of the Republic can be resolved, on the initiative of at least one third of the MPs. If they were not already in the appearance of the presidential elections and the end of the term of office of Boris Tadic, which is obvious, the SRS parliamentary group would, I believe, only three more signatures we need would launch an initiative to resolve the president of the Republic, which Mr Dragan Todorovic spoke of last week. It is impossible that Boris Tadic was not informed about the case of Slobodan Vučetic and that he was silent about the fact that Vučetic – and according to the solution received by Mr Todorovic and by the documentation he read last week, as chairman of the Administrative Board – was in an illegal state for a year. Boris Tadic is responsible for this. Whether it's because of his health, disrespect for the Constitution, bad advisors, we wouldn't get into it. But you cannot make such a member of the law that will say in this next position, imagine that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will determine in a decision on the resolution of the President of the Republic that has been granted to the President of the Republic is individual or all the rights that the former President of the Republic has under this law. First, since the constitution of the Constitutional Court has not been completed, whoever you choose, or Boris Tadic, after you have agreed, on this list from five other members, the Supreme Cassation Court, whoever is the President of the Constitutional Court, will be the criminal Dragisa Slepčević, would be trampling the Constitution. You have to understand that the Assembly can't do this. In the resolution decision, following a debate that is hypothetically led at the request of one-third of the MPs, if conditions are created that two-thirds of us may be resolved by the President of the Republic, there is only a decision which is why he has been resolved, the basic reason, in breach of the Constitution, and so on. Based on what? Under this law, the Constitution does not give you, gentlemen, this kind of authority to move on. The National Assembly can only go so far as to launch the initiative, to resolve the decision by two-thirds of the MPs and make a decision that must be precise and clear. You'd probably be sitting, I guess (is that right, colleague Radeta? ), the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which would define what a decision on the resolution of the President of the Republic is. I am speaking to her, as well as to other Serbian radicals, counterpart Jojic and others who are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No one could write a decision any further. Then it could say, today was a day like that, it was raining, or the MPs were taking a break, reporting to the Rules of Procedure... That I am not banalizing now, but this article is really written in this function of banalising an important decision that may sometimes be made by the National Assembly, that the legitimately elected President of the Republic should thus be resolved. There's a lot of mistakes. A moment ago, when I looked into the acceptance of the amendment of my colleague Stefan Zankov to Article 41, I saw that the motionary was, in fact, playing with the amendments of the SRS. He wanted Minister Markovic to say, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia: yes, we will accept something -- just for the sake of order, to accept, and then you are yourself contradictory, because it is impossible, for example, to say what we were talking about, when it came to being a colleague of Zivkov, where you put in conditional form the views of amendments concerning the resolution of the head of the cabinet and advisers, and when it comes to something that is essential, essentially wrongly done in the law, as a moment ago, that the situation that, imagine, the president of the former Republic consular and diplomatic representations particularly protects. He's a citizen just like any other when he goes somewhere. Of course, we too must be protected (it is best known by people who are in diplomacy) if every citizen asks for help. In addition, the passport issued by the competent state authorities writes nicely that, at that time, the foreign minister - please provide at any time the necessary assistance to the Serbian citizen who is in this situation. Then you can see that you have unseriously approached the examination of these amendments. What a law, that's how it's gonna be. You're in a very big error, you from the DS, and it's time you really landed on the ground. I'm not telling you this because I'm dealing with research right now, or I'm coming to the most important part to visit many Serbian citizens, but if you think Boris Tadic is your favorite in the presidential race, you're wrong. He's completely, as the jargon would say, cracked like a presidential candidate. The people won't. This law you wrote for him, and he will not be citizens of Serbia, because it is quite obvious that the situation has changed. I will end it, although it is little now, not to say, unpleasant or degutantly, because the future Serbian President, Mr Nikolic, has just entered the hall, I wanted to make at the end of this announcement a personal reminder of you who remember this period, especially the Serbian Radicals, of a December which was 17 years ago and by the way to take the opportunity to announce something. In fact, 17 years ago, on December 25th, in the former Hall of Self-Government, which you remember for some period which was part of a forged history, it was called the House of Self-Government, and now the House of Trade, Mr. Radosavljevic, who was from Kragujevac, so on December 25th 1990, at the invitation of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, Serbian Chetnik Duke Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the dissident of that time, first came to the heart of Serbia, to Kragujevac, in Šumadi. Perhaps no one believed then, because people in a crowded hall came to hear what the man who was under the communist regime in prisons said, that such an idea and ideology of Serbian nationalism would be so much to let the roots go and to live in the Serbian electoral body and wherever Serbs live. Seventeen years later, this time on December 1st, in that same hall in Kragujevac, which has, history will record and have already recorded the books of the SRS, historical and symbolic significance, so in that same hall of the House of Self-Government or the House of Unions, as you will, tomorrow, December 1st, we organize at 19.00 a promotion of the book of our party president Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". You can see how much time he can do and how much it meant to fight Serbian radicals and Vojislav Seselj. Seventeen years later, in the assembly hall, another short time as president of the largest parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic sits, and will soon be in the building across the street at Andric's wedding. Vojislav Seselj had so much to do with his ideology that the Serbian people, in the right sense of the word, and also the people of him, fought heroically there. I think that, I am confident, just like that 25th December 1990, and tomorrow, at 19.00 a.m., the House of Unions Hall in Kragujevac will be filled with respect for Vojislav Seselj, his friend and comrade Tomislav Nikolic, and the struggle of Serbian radicals for the freedom of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12428	Are any of the other MPs reporting for word according to this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment has the same meaning as Mr. Milickovic's amendment, or it's some kind of variant, trying to draft a law in the work when it comes to the rights of the President of the Republic that has been resolved. In Article 43(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill states: "The President of the Republic who has been resolved has no right under this law to have a former President of the Republic." So there's no right. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SPS, amends Article 43(1). The bill reads: "The President of the Republic who is relieved of duties for violating the Constitution and the law that threatens the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for crimes committed that violate the reputation and moral integrity of the institution it represents, there is no right that the former President of the Republic has under this law." So, through this amendment, only in those drastic cases, when the President of the Republic has endangered the interests of the Republic of Serbia, or in any other way, or by committing criminal acts has compromised the moral integrity of that institution, to have been resolved and that it has no right to belong to it as former President of the Republic. Without any indignation, please don't take it that way. Imagine if a new 5th of October happened, but this time the people threw you out of power, that new parliamentary elections be immediately discussed, and all of this to happen, I speak hypothetically, during the time your President of the Republic is in power, that is, acting as President of the Republic. So, you lose parliamentary elections and in the National Assembly, after the constitution of a different majority, which, for example, is against you, initiates a procedure for resolution, and in such a euphoria, the issue is that the Constitutional Court will assess the constitutionality when it is initiated, etc., as the judicial authorities did after 5 October in many cases, etc., there is a resolution of your President of the Republic, who, for example, did not violate the Constitution in that part as the amendment says, that by performing his duties, he has compromised independence, territorial integrity or sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and is resolved. He doesn't have any rights as former president. I have now set a hypothetical example, that this could happen to any president of the Republic who comes into such a situation, that in one way, in a situation of euphoria, when volunteering and looking at it, it would be removed and then be left without any rights. So, this amendment also makes sense to respect the institution of the President of the Republic until the end, because it is too serious to be treated one way or another depending on the current political need of the majority that is most influential at the moment in Serbia. The President of the Republic must always be respected, both the institution of the President of the Republic and the former President of the Republic. Therefore, it must not happen that the former President of the Republic is just sent to The Hague, past the law and the Constitution, in breach of some basic laws governing the issue when he can get out of the prison of inquiry and who can carry out it and by what act. When the former president dies, or when he is killed, and then the funeral is organized, balloons are not waved in the Republic Square and hepening is organized, as you, Mr. Albianic, have participated. This does not seem to be the moment when, unfortunately, the prime minister, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is killed, as no one has done, because it is not the turn. There is the difference in respect of the state of Serbia and its institutions. Therefore, such an amendment by the SPS is indeed absolutely well-intentioned and in the function of what is the state, which is respect for the state and its institutions. In fact, for these reasons, this law should cover all these functions from a previous period, including Mrs. Jovanka Broz, after the wife of Slobodan Milosevic Mira Markovic, tomorrow-to-day and the other presidents who came into this situation, when we talked about the other member when the former president of the Republic died. Of course, through this set of amendments that we have given in this part, we specifically think that all the rights of the former president and of that extent and in that form as we have proposed to the amendments, means all the presidents that we have, who are still alive. These are: Mr. Dobrica Ćosic, Mr. Zoran Lilić, Milan Milutinović, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica and Svetozar Marovic. So, Mr. Todorovic, you're right that they... There's no need for us to compromise on that. We have suggested in one amendment that they be presidents of the SRJ. Whether we're right about that part or not, that's the second question and about it, I at least, I don't want to say it - whether it's necessary or not. We're talking about one principle here. Let me finish. The SPS believes that at a given moment, when the procedure is initiated... I'm sorry I stopped, I don't care if you all hear what I say, but it's just distracting me, so for that reason I stop. So it was the wish of the SPS not to solve this significant issue in such a rigid way because in certain situations it really can. However, the need lies in the most difficult cases, when the President of the Republic broke the Constitution and questioned the institution it is carrying out, the institution of the President of the Republic, it is left without rights. And he can be left without the right purely one hierarchical or I don't know what policy some majority at a given time, and it really isn't objective nature and it's very bad for Serbia, which continues to divide and thus creates conditions for serious consequences for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12430	National MP Rajko Baralic on the amendment, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic, also on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12431	Mr. Mihajlovic gave an argument he considered necessary. This is a convenient time to say exactly what happened before the fraud was arrested by Slobodan Milosevic. First, I remind you, the government has passed an act depriving the former president of his right to security. That was the first act. This was done because otherwise it was not possible for the two services of the same state to conflict, and to deprive the former head of state of freedom. That's the first thing. It's another thing. On the night of the fraud, Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, and Cedomir Jovanovic guaranteed his signature that he would not be extradited to The Hague tribunal, the Chief of Staff, who did not hate you because he was also the former Chief of Staff, ordered the commander of the Guard brigade General Bojovic to recommend the Guard's unit and that Villa 'Mir' no longer provides the guard. It's a few criminal acts. We'll talk about it sometime. More and more is known - detention for the wrong eyelashes of the grandmother of Stamen, and then kidnapping without the consent of any state organ, or execution from custody. Kidnapping is a felony, so, seven-eight crimes. I talk about it all the time because it was the former president of the two states: the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia. It was the president who lost the election with two million votes. So much today goes to Serbia's elections more or less. All right, more. So, there was one place that was thought out and organized, and there was the intention of how one man, who was the former president, would formally deprive himself of his freedom without the two security services being brought into conflict. It was the relationship of one authority to the former president. He was first elected with three and a half million votes. We can be political opponents, and we are, that's why we're here. Our political programs are different and should be different. We are parliamentary parties and we are MPs of these parliamentary parties, and that's good. It's just not good for anyone in the world to treat a former head of state like that. There was no legal basis for doing so. Only one minister in the DOS government disagreed with an anti-constitutional regulation that Slobodan Milosevic was handed over to The Hague tribunal at Vidovdan. The others agreed to it. It can't -- it's constitutional when it's our Constitution, and when it's your Constitution, it's not constitutional. They're all constitutional, but this is ours a little bit more constitutional. That, if you will, is a rusty message for the future, it is an ugly attitude towards the state, according to the former president, it is an impossible relationship with Serbian citizens who have provided votes to ensure that it was who it was. You can think about whatever you want. The head of state is the head of state. Someone likes him, like someone likes him now, someone doesn't like him, like somebody's gonna like him tomorrow, and somebody will, but he's the head of state. When he's ex, he owns everything that's supposed to belong to every former head of state in every normal state. So, it was important that I say this, I don't want to talk about this anymore, because there are several important elements that have features or are criminal acts, and among you there are also 176 MPs of any hundred lawyers here in the O.R., there were several law doctors in the government. Although not everyone had Serbian citizenship, some were nationals of some other states and were ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for that. There will be a few more amendments we'll talk about very briefly. But we don't want any of your presidents, whatever opinion we have on him today, to have such a destiny and to have such a relationship with the current government when he becomes former. That's how it shows if you're honest, whether you just win or you're a retaliatory vigilante. You were the retaliatory vigilantes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12432	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, both amendments to Article 43 are kind of trying to fix this Article 43, but it would be best if we wrote "Article 43 -- delete." There's one thing that I don't think the legislator's taken care of at all. He had a picture of the president in front of him, and these members should not have a picture of the president, but of the state. This is about the state, what needs to be done towards the former president, and that's a fundamental mistake, which is why it's Article 43 like this. It's a particularly problematic explanation, a re-explanation, to be given. He says, "Amendment is not accepted. The President of the Republic shall be authorised for infringement of the Constitution, therefore, in the final line, because he has exercised his office and jurisdiction against the highest legal act of the State. ''Ladies and gentlemen, and what will happen, as we have had opportunities in Richard Nixon's case, has been launched practically for the shift, however, he resigned. Technically, he broke the laws, broke the constitution, but no proceedings were conducted. He resigned and had all the rights that all the former presidents of the United States had. Let's move on, assuming: what happens to, say, the President of the Republic commits a crime, say, murder? A living man, like any other, comes under the circumstances. He'll have to answer, like everyone else, for a crime. He'll repay his debt to the state. The moment the state ceases to care in a particular place, he will be the former president. And there's an ex-president, but when he gets out, he's the former president and the state has to take care of him for the state, because the state protects its former president. It protects, if nothing else, from trying people who are sick and who, among other things, think they're doing something that would possibly harm the former president, from physical injury to murder. Therefore, this amendment to Milosava Milickovic should be accepted and eliminated if this is not accepted. The former president of the state is the former president of the state, and in any situation he must have the protection of the state. If he broke the Constitution, committed a crime, he's suffering consequences. When that is over, it must simply have her rights as well as any other former president of the Republic, i.e. the State, which is why I don't think she's a well-formed member of 43. It should not be singled out on any basis, but accepted by this amendment by Milosava Milickovic, because he practically erases Article 43, and so we would be in a position for the state to fulfil its obligations for itself, not for the former president who is no longer in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12434	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger is Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, based on an article. 225 and 226, because of calls from citizens yesterday and today, in order to inform the public and the MPs, while also asking Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who is directly responsible for what has been happening in the last days, and here today in Ćupria and Paracino, as the lives of people and their property have been threatened, and all as a result of last year's ammunition warehouse explosion in the settlement "July 7th" in Paracino. The citizens of Paracin and Cupria municipality are asking for protection from Minister Dragan Sutanovac, because he is responsible for the immediate threat to the lives of people and their property. He probably doesn't know that people fall ceilings in houses today, shoot glass, and spray walls. Until some time ago, the destruction of mine-explosive assets was carried out, ranging from 14 to 15 hours. But lately, it's been happening every day and, unfortunately, the detonations are so strong that new damages are happening to citizens these days. People are panicking, kids are literally running around the basements. Citizens will soon organize themselves and arrive at a range where these funds are being destroyed to stop further explosions because their homes will be destroyed. In particular, I was called by the following persons - Zoran Ilic, "Minel settlement's Ćuprija - glass on his house, Novko Stošić - his walls broke, Stanko Stojanović, near the Technical School in Ćuprija - cracked the ceiling, Milorad Ilic, "Minel settlement" - the glass broke on his house, and yet his previous damage was not reconciled. Local television has been making contributions for days, and contributions have been buried to this and to citizens' calls. And worst of all, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac has also disobeyed the invitations of the president of the Municipality of Paracin and the invitations of the head of the municipality of Cupri. They even made a funny announcement that the detonations were strong because the mines that were found and which were greater destructive powers were destroyed, which means when they found some ground-air rocket, or some plane-bomb, we were able to move out of chupre and out of Paracino. That's why I'm asking Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac's reply, on behalf of the citizens of the municipality of Ćupri and the Municipality of Paracin, why it does not stop this kind of destruction of explosives, because it directly endangers the property and lives of people in these two maritime municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12436	Is anyone answering for a word amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milutin Mrkonjic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12437	On behalf of the SPS, MP and vice-president of the National Assembly Milutin Mrkonjic submitted an amendment. In Chapter X - Transitional and Final Provisions - a new Article 45a is added, which reads as follows: 'The law laid down by the provisions of Article 45a. 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 for the former President of the Republic shall also apply to the Presidents of the Republic who have performed this duty from 1991 until the date of entry into force of this law. The rights laid down in the provisions of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall be conferred on the European Parliament and to the Council on the European Parliament and to the Council, the Council and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council. 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 for the former president of the Republic are equally applied to all presidents of the federal state whose composition was the Republic of Serbia until Montenegro's exit from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. 'So it's quite clear what this is all about. I don't want to take your time. We have practically explained this amendment several times already through others and through our debate in principle. Our sincere intention is to put all former presidents in the same position and that all former presidents have the same rights as the former president will have after this term. That's the point. Everything else has already been said here and I expect you to accept this amendment, because it does no harm to anyone, only the state of Serbia is better positioned than anything experienced and said in other countries in the same way or similar. Because, let's say, it's completely incomprehensible that the president of the former state in a European country has nothing to do with the rights we seek for the former presidents of the state of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the former presidents of Serbia-Montenegro who were from the Republic of Serbia. Someone may say that these last ones have nothing to look for here, but this is a principled matter, and I think this amendment should be accepted. We put an end to this debate when it comes to this, because on any other decision, it will tell us that you have no good intentions in this matter, that you are simply protecting the rights of the former president who is elected from the ranks of your party or your parties that are now in power. I hope you don't want it, or that you want the citizens to see it that way. Otherwise, you will accept this amendment and show that every former president is worthy of your attention and respect, and in that sense I urge you to accept the amendment. That's what the government should have done, because the government, too, said they wouldn't accept this amendment, in fact, also said, as most of you here thinks: no, these weren't our candidates, we don't care, so we won't give them any of what you're asking for. So it's simply not possible and there's going to be an opportunity to talk about this even when it's voted on this law and later. I have to say, we're going to charge you hard every time we get an opportunity, in every way, because you don't run a consistent policy, you don't run a consistent policy, and you don't turn it into legal acts, what you say in the election campaign -- that all citizens are equal, that all those who are responsible for this or for having the same treatment, but rather, to make laws that will be a small political asylum for your former presidents. We do not want it to be so and therefore Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has submitted this amendment on behalf of the SPS and I ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12438	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the Commissioner of the Verse of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unless a representative of the Government or the Assembly majority accepts this amendment that I have submitted to Article 46. The draft law on the president, then Boris Tadic will run out of security or have illegal security. Why do I say that? Because Article 46. The bill reads: The entry into force of this law ceases to apply to the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. Before that, we have a member of the 45th who says:The government is obliged to adopt a regulation governing the security of the President of the Republic and members of its household within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law and to designate persons entitled to the same security as the President of the Republic. So, over a 90-day period, until the government passes this sublaw act, there is no possibility that the President of the Republic will be provided. The amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group reads: ''The entry into force of this law shall cease to apply to the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, except for Article 5. A law which ceases to apply by adopting the act referred to in Article 45 of this Act.' Article 5 The law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic, which will cease to apply on the day of entry into force of this law, regulates the right to security of the President of the Republic. If that member is not in effect until this sublegal act is adopted on which the Government is obliged within 90 days, I repeat, the President of the Republic will have no security. Then either whoever provides it won't do it legally, or there won't be a legal basis for the president's security. We spoke yesterday of whom you had all actually predicted that, with the president, the police, the military and other bodies were being guarded, as you stated. You have extended the circle to the maltenes of an unspecified number of persons and when it comes to household members, because you did not accept it to be a family household; and when it comes to co-workers, it remains completely unclear what is the number and circle of associates that will be provided in the same way as the president is provided. Now a question for the absent minister: what will happen in this period until the government adopts this sublegal act to regulate the regulation, as it says here, which regulates the security of the President of the Republic and members of his household and his associates? So, if you want the President of the Republic to have adequate security in continuity, this amendment simply has to be accepted, or you want to tell us which way you're going to guard the President of the Republic in the meantime, who is going to bring this cover down at the door these 90 days until you pass this regulation. I assume you know what cover I'm talking about. It's at the entrance to the Republic Presidency building, it's all over Belgrade talking, and I've seen more than once in my life, there's a car coming in driving Boris Tadic, they're standing outside the door, and then the president's coming down on three sides, and in a minute, two or three of them walk into the building, the cover's coming up again, the car's leaving, the president's safely entering the building. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask Mr. Milan Markovic who is going to be doing this for the last 90 days, maybe 60, maybe 30, maybe 90 days, for the government to pass this regulation, could be a shorter deadline, but it is really a question of what will happen to the president's security in this period. I wish the minister were here, but I will certainly take the opportunity to ask him, I suppose that his associate will pass on to him, since the minister, as well as the representatives of his party, swear to an independent and independent judiciary: is there a legal basis for the solution he has made and signed, and refers to a solution which he, Goran Ilic, the public prosecutor of the First Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, has appointed as an investigator for employees in the state administration with a medium professional background when passing an expert exam? It is not possible for the public prosecutor to work and ask Minister Markovic to answer why he has made such a solution and whether he may think the solution is correct. We just want to know what this is about. And I ask of you, fellow MPs, since the minister is absent, that, because of the seriousness of this amendment and because of the seriousness of the situation that might happen if the amendment is not accepted, I ask that you accept the amendment because, I repeat, if it remains in force for the provision of Article 46 of this Act on the President, which these days will be voted upon, by the power of this law ceases to apply the entire Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, then, in accordance with Article 45, the President of the Republic will not have any security. You may plan that during that period, the President of the Republic may be on some serious investigation, given the knowledge we spoke about the other day, that the President of the Republic is seriously ill... Madam Radeta, please. )......................................................................................................... His illness can affect the security of the state, the territorial integrity of the state. You may plan to use that time for questioning and treatment, but even if it is, and where it is possibly being treated, it is necessary to have adequate and adequate security. Madam Radeta, did you hear me? No, I didn't hear you, I don't want to hear you, Mr. Albianic. Once again, I have to explain to you that if you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, you can give me a warning. Wait till I'm done. If I've broken the Rules of Procedure twice, give me two warnings. After that, take my word for it, then shut me out of the session. You know everything, you have everything in the Rules of Procedure. You have every option, only you have no right to interrupt me while I speak, because I don't express myself offensively, I speak completely reasoned, I explain the amendment. And because you don't like what I'm saying, that's your problem. I'd be very worried if you would listen to what I'm saying with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12440	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12441	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, I'd like to read to you the amendment I submitted to article 46 of the Law. He says, "By entering into force of this law, the People's Office of the President of the Republic ceases to work. ''I think this is a perfectly logical amendment that should clearly define what we are going to do with this institution that is really not envisaged anywhere, in the Constitution or in any other legal norms, that it can be formed or its competences are clearly defined. However, I must say that last year's institution was presented as a special item in the Republic of Serbia's budget. True, this year it is not in the draft budget law, which you pulled out of the assembly debate, I don't know if there will be any changes under that law, but the truth, I admit, this section isn't in the new budget, so I really don't know what's going to happen to this institution. Because all of this has not been defined, I think my amendment and amendment to the SPS parliamentary group is fully acceptable. I'm saying what fascinates me in the explanation of the government – except for the first sentence, where it says - the amendment is not accepted – everything else is in favour of my thesis that this amendment should be accepted. He says, "The bill states that the People's Office is drowning," I hope it won't drown in the Secretary General of the President of the Republic. It will therefore cease to work once a new Regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of posts in the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic has been adopted after the entry into force of this law and has been brought into contact with this law. "By what you have said, you have just confirmed my claim that you should accept this and that, after the adoption of this law, the People's Office should be shut down, that is, as you have said here, drown." I must tell you, if you read the members of this same law, from 26 to 30, you will see that there is not a single letter within the General Secretariat to regulate the work of the National Office. I'll be free to read to you Article 26 of the Law: 'General Secretariat of the President of the Republic (hereinafter referred to as... '"It doesn't matter, 'the service that provides professional and technical support to the President of the Republic. The General Secretariat shall carry out the tasks relating to the exercise of the right of the President of the Republic to pay and other labour rights, the right of the spouse of the President of the Republic and the right of the former President of the Republic to pay, the monthly remuneration, as well as the right to receive a special monthly allowance.' If I'm not deceived by memory, believe me, I remember well, and if what you were saying is true, the National Office was dedicated exclusively to helping the citizens. At no time has the National Office served to assist the President of the Republic in the exercise of his rights and in the exercise of his duties, but has exclusively served to help citizens, as presented in public, to try to establish contact between the President of the Republic and other state institutions that did not comply with the law of their obligation, so the citizens felt injured. So if you read Article 26, there's really no place for the People's Office within the Secretary-General. If you try to find a link in Article 29 - working bodies of the Secretary-General - and you will not find it there, because it says nicely: "The Secretary-General, by order of the President of the Republic, educates the working bodies to consider certain issues from the responsibility of the President of the Republic and to make proposals, opinions and expert analyses." But then it says, "The President and the other members of the working body are appointed and resolved by the President of the Republic and they are not in a working relationship with the General Secretariat." However, you see what you wrote in the explanation: ''Therefore, she will cease to work when after the entry into force of this law a new Regulation on the internal arrangement and systematization of posts in the General Secretariat of the President... '". So, you want people from the People's Office, 32 people, according to what I've been able to read in terms of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and where only a story appears about the People's Office, to translate into the General Secretariat. And let me tell you right now, this National Office, this way and based on the definition it's given and it's arranged for, can't really drown in the General Secretariat for a number of reasons. Only if the General Secretariat will serve only to hire people from the National Office, 32 of them, to house them with good wages and that they do not really perform that function they performed within the National Office, because it is definitely by this law, members from 26 to 30, that is exactly forbidden and the opposite of the functioning of the National Office in relation to these laws. I've clearly read the responsibilities of the Secretariat. They refer exclusively to the President of the Republic, not externally to the citizens of this country. Either you change the part concerning the General Secretariat, so you give it the authority that they can also help citizens exercise some of their rights and responsibilities that they are not satisfied with under other laws, or you have to change something else, or you have to accept this amendment that I have given you. Let's not take any more time for the SPS to contribute to the conclusion of this debate, but I really think you should think about it and that you really need to accept this amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12442	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although we had the right to demand that the minister be present during the debate on amendments, indeed, even though I've blacked out and engrossed in these assembly benches, I didn't have the heart to ask for his presence, because I'm sure how much torture this is for him when he has to listen to everything that's written in the law, and especially in the explanation. I don't know whether the providence or the assumption that Milan Markovic would defend this law in front of the government, so whoever wrote these arguments wrote just to put him in the position that he was otherwise in. I'll read your explanation slowly, try to understand what the writer wanted to say and why this amendment is not accepted. The amendment says, "The entry into force of this law ceases with the work of the National Office of the President of the Republic. ''The explanation says, ''Amendment is not accepted. The bill states that the People's Office of Utopa - what will they do, pick them up and throw them into the Danube, as it drowns the People's Office - into the Secretary General of the President of the Republic. Therefore, it will cease to work" – in fact it will not stop working, because it's being drowned' in the General Secretariat – 'When after the entry into force of this law a new Regulation on the internal arrangement and systematisation of jobs in the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic is adopted and it is the basis of this law. "God forgive me, can anyone ever think about what the government was going to say with this explanation. This really is the highlight of underestimating the Serbian Parliament and the MPs. But now let's get back to the People's Office. The National Office in the most classical sense is the abuse of the official position by the President of the Republic. The fact is, the People's Office didn't exist and it's an imaginary institution. Invented because of certain people within the DS and an attempt by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, to deceive Serbian citizens. What's it for and what's it for? By trying to show Serbian citizens that he will try to take care of and help Serbian citizens. For God's sakes, he organized the National Office and made it possible, it's easier to come now, allegedly allowing them through the National Office all the problems they're trying to solve. Here, just one question. Is there one thing that was solved through the People's Office and on the basis of which powers could have been solved through the National Office? No, I don't. There was only a desire to deceive Serbian citizens, to promote Dragan Gilas as director of the National Office, to spend funds, or money on Serbian citizens, and thus to deceive Serbian citizens. But this isn't at all foreign to you. Wherever you have opportunities, you try to break the law and invent both institutions and non-existent jobs to meet your needs. You had yesterday's chance to read in the paper that Radmila Hrustanovic was elected assistant mayor of development and international co-operation. I was just about to ask him where this job is in the Statute or when there's been a job like this. He liked the work of representing the City Assembly in international relations and in development. And she says she can do anything from city cleanliness, and she just doesn't like going back to Jarram Market and going to her gigs. That won't work for a living either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12444	Please, Mr. Todorovic, don't say that about Mrs. Krustanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12445	Here you go, Mr. Chairman, I think you want to tell me something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12446	Don't say that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12447	I think, Mr. Chairman, working at the market is an honorable profession. I have to tell you, that's where only the fittest survives. There's a market in the best of sight, the ones that are capable and can withstand competition. Apparently Radmila is unable to withstand that competition, but she's trying to find other ways to avoid that life match. You have economists among you who will explain to you what the market means. Here they smile and I guarantee they'll confirm what I'm saying. Therefore, gentlemen of the DS, don't abuse the law, don't break the law, work in accordance with the law, because every violation of the law by your side, even when you're trying to legalize it, costs the citizens of Serbia hugely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12448	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what must be said at first, is that Boris Tadic, by illegally forming the National Office, seemed to want to restore some of the traditions of the time of Prince Milos Obrenovic. Namely, after the end of the second Serbian uprising, Prince Milos formed a National Office in Belgrade in agreement with the Turks to protect Serbian national interests under Turkish occupation, and the national office had even certain judicial powers. However, this National Office of Boris Tadic absolutely does not protect any national interests, it was formed without legal basis and its sole purpose is to serve for political marketing purposes of the DS. The National Office is, to make evil bigger, even being a beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budgets and large funds are being allocated to finance this completely illegal institution. The National Office has the same purpose as the funds that are educated in the AP Vojvodina by the province's assembly, which should, in fact, have as their ultimate consequence the expansion of the electoral body of the DS in Vojvodina. As the National Office serves to allegedly buy computers for endangered Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija, to make toilets in primary schools that do not yet have them, so the funds of the AP Vojvodina Assembly have a purpose to promote DS. We had a debate yesterday about these funds and why the SRS in the Vojvodina Assembly didn't vote for a decision on the establishment of these funds. These funds are educated to get DS a piece of the electoral body in Vojvodina, since in a regular way it cannot go with her. They know that Vojvodina is exactly the strongest foothold of the SRS, and then they're trying to buy votes to provide it. Several funds have been educated, the Capital Investment Fund, the Fund for Aid to Refugees and Displaced Population, etc. However, they do not say that the only condition to get any help from these funds is to have someone be a member of the DS. What I said yesterday, it's true and you can check it out. If you go to any trust fund in Novi Sad and ask where you can get the paperwork for filing requests to get some financial assistance, they'll tell you to contact the DS municipal committees. Even individual presidents of the DS municipal committees in Vojvodina are members of the boards of directors of these funds. The same purpose these funds have is this National Office. It doesn't even take the law to stop that People's Office from working. As there was no legal basis for it to be formed, so the law should not be shut down. It is enough for the incumbent president of the Republic of Boris Tadic to have enough courage to work on his conscience and by his decision, which he founded that illegal National Office, and abolished. Otherwise, when I have answered my word, I will take the opportunity to say a few words about the amendment submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. You, Mr. Albianic, have crossed that amendment. (WHISPERS): No, I read it well, there was no answer for word. ) A People's MP named according to the Rules of Procedure came forward, finished his presentation by the Rules of Procedure, and you have already moved on to the amendment of MP Milutin Mrkonjic, without giving opportunities to the MPs to say something about the amendment of Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12450	I asked if anyone wanted a word, no one answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12451	So, I think the amendment submitted by Dusan Bajatovic was absolutely established and made sense. Namely, it says: Article 43, paragraph 1, after the word 'who has been resolved' is added to the word'stuck' and 'or lost his citizenship'. The MP suggested that the former president of the Republic who was dismissed and who had ceased to have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia lose the rights that otherwise belong to the former presidents of the Republic under the bill. Then the government gave another brilliant legal explanation why it did not accept this amendment. Otherwise, the argument has two sentences and the first sentence is already a classic formulation of the Serbian government that will enter the annals of writing the law: 'Amendman is not accepted'. The second sentence is, be careful what genius: "The loss of citizenship is not intended by the Constitution as a reason for the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic". You see, ladies and gentlemen, if you read the Constitution of Serbia, death is not intended as a reason for the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic. If we were to stop at the government's position, we could say, yes, a man died, but, you know, it doesn't say in the Constitution that death is the reason for his term of office, he's still the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the early '80s, there was a true event. To us, from this distance, he looks amazing, but it really happened. Namely, the Sarajevo court condemned a man who told a joke about late President Joseph Broz Tito. Then the court, in light of the verdict, said that Comrade Tito didn't die, and that happened about 82/83. years ago, he was just prevented from doing his duty. It is about the same logic in the light of this amendment. It does not say in the Constitution that the loss of citizenship is the reason for the end of the term of office. It doesn't say that death is the reason for the end of the term of office. I guess that, gentlemen of the DS lawyers, is understood. It is illogical for a cleaning lady to seek citizenship in order to get a job in a state body. By law, it is one of the conditions for establishing a working relationship, but you do not think that there is a reason for the end of the term of office, i.e. for the loss of rights under the law if someone stops the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. That's really amazing. Otherwise, I'm not going to look here right now, in the light of one of these amendments, why don't you accept it, you say, death is a defaulting, or a natural reason for ending law. When it suits you, you say it's meant to be, and when it doesn't suit you, you say it doesn't appear in the Constitution. It is understood, ladies and gentlemen, that if someone stops the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, they cannot exercise the rights they have as former president. I guess that's clear to everyone, but it's not clear to these DS geniuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12452	The word has been given by MP Vladan Batic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12453	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as DHSS MP, I believe this amendment has its logic for a simple reason, not that I am deluded by the existence of the National Office, but simply some virtual institution, it is not legally legalized. We could say it's illegal. I understand the need for someone to make their promotion, but I don't see the practical effects of the existence of the National Office, especially when it's not part of the legal-institutional system. So it's a complete provision, something that really didn't give any practical effect. So, if we want to interpret the concept of the National Office itself, it shouldn't be some humanitarian organization, and from what we've had the opportunity to see in the media, it has periodically turned into a humanitarian organization, with the aim of promoting the President of the Republic. I have not heard that the National Office raised its voice in the interest of Serbian citizens why bread is more expensive in Serbia than in Germany, why milk is more expensive in Serbia than in Germany, sugar, oil, baby food, baby equipment, diapers that are four or five times more expensive in Serbia than in Germany. Shut up, People's Office. As everyone or most of them here were terrified of the need and demands of the LDP parliamentary club to form a survey board, because if there were no monopoly in Serbia, basic provisions of life would not be the most expensive in Southeast Europe, the basic provisions of life I counted would not be more expensive than in Germany. But it's obvious that unfortunately there's not enough courage, there's no courage from, we're going to find out which reasons to form a survey board. Why? Someone said it would be a promotion of Cedomir Jovanovic. Yes, but the poll committee is like Damokl's sword: if the truth is shown, it will be better for the citizens of Serbia, and if the LDP is found to be telling the truth, then it will be satanized, animated, ignored by voters and citizens of Serbia. Then why are you afraid? Or is it not fear, but obligation, to the main monopolies in this country? I didn't hear the National Office deal with the sad story, like in the illustrations of Laza Lazarevic, the reserve of Toplička County. And let me tell you, maybe you don't care, it's sad if you don't want to know, today the entire strike committee of Toplice County reservers called for an informative conversation. And President Dejan Milosevic, and Deputy President Branislav Jovanovic, even one woman, Mrs Bojan Pejovic, only because they seek their elemental rights. Apparently, their gatherings are forbidden. In Serbia 2007, gatherings are banned, basic human rights are banned. It's the truth about Serbia, it's the truth about democracy in Serbia. I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12454	I'm sorry, what didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12455	I didn't hear you warn the MPs, that I don't have to yell here, but that I can speak normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12456	May I have your attention, please, let's listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12457	You might as well sit down, you're a folk MP, you're, and I don't remember a gentleman when I was in that party. So, listen to this case, it's not for laughs, it's not for jokes, it's for jokes. This is something that is the cruel reality of Serbia. I heard from Mark Patric's mother, the Serb who was killed at that illegal border crossing 15 days ago, Mrs Dragana Patric. They were left Kosovo and Metohija. They've come to the King. This guy, who was in the paratroopers and was in the anti-terrorism unit, was a sniper, spent the entire war in Kosovo and Metohija. He was even on the other side. I got into the biggest risks. He loved Kosovo. He's back in Kosovo. He lived with a girl who is an graduate of medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica. That girl is seven months pregnant today. That young man was killed, unfortunately, by a Serbian hand. No one remembered at least to provide funeral costs, among those who are full of hands to take care of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. The funeral expenses were paid by his grandfather. His colleagues, now working in KFOR, offered to help his mother's family, but none of the Serbs from Kosovo. It's sad and it's the job of the National Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12458	Is anyone else answering for a word from the MPs? No, I don't. ) Representative, Mr Milan Marković. Final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12459	No need, since I've been present all these days, it's my turn to say the final word for this law, irrelevantly, I'll be very brief. I think the discussions were very rational and very correct. I think there's been a lot of clarification. I cannot help but share the impression that there is a single body of issues that may not be well clarified and remains until the voter's day, and particularly parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, are considering certain amendments and certain attitudes that we have heard from this speaker. In general, I hope that you will ultimately support all the law on the President of the Republic and I hope that it will be voted upon, and I hope that this debate that is now going on, and this is the debate on the bill on elections for the President of the Republic, will be as constructive as this one has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12460	Thank you. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law on the President of the Republic in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic (single) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together by Aleksandra Jerkov and Aleksandar Marton, Nebojsa Rangelović, Natasa Mićic, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Petar Jojić, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Momir Marković, Paja Momčev, Milan Avramović, Slavko Jerković, Zoran Despotović, Milorad Krstinović, Goran Cvetanovic, Igor Bečić, Dragan Todorovović, Bojan Milovanovic, Milisav Petrović, Dusan Bjatović and Jovan Miljanić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our opinion, this is one of the most important members of this bill. It is, in effect, the constitutional right of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to decide who will be in power or to run for office themselves. It is a declared DOS promise, given in 2000 to Serbs living outside Serbia, that they will be absolutely allowed to vote, not as until then, exclusively in the polling post where they are listed, but in a city in which they live anywhere in the world. This right is partly recognised by amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. However, it was thus arranged that only embassy employees, consulates or voting places, members of their families and citizens of Serbia living close by, here, let's say up to 10-20km away, although in Serbia you do not have a polling station more than fivekm from any voter, that only they can vote. That's why, with the huge cost of voting, thousands of voters abroad. The draft law continues to represent the need for Serbs, that citizens of Serbia staying abroad should not be able to easily, in a simple way, vote, but rather make conditions so difficult for them to vote for them to give up the vote. Without prejudice to which these people would vote, I have the right to say that the SRS is not convinced to get these votes in the majority, because it is about people living in the European Union, who know what EU benefits are, who live within NATO's borders, who know what the benefits of NATO organisations, who protect them, who care about them day and night, have media at their disposal to find out what the truth is. So we have nothing personal in mind when we suggest that you allow citizens of Serbia living abroad to vote, as this right is made possible by many citizens of other countries far more developed than we are, with far more developed parliamentaryism. We have here proposed a simple solution applied to several Western European states. A Serbian citizen living in New York gets a ballot from the voter's committee, now gets it from consulates, embassies, however, will also get the ballot now very simple: round what he wants or doesn't round up, puts it in one envelope, seal it and puts it in another envelope, which already contains photocopies of his passport and some identification document from the country in which he is located. The election board gets an envelope, opens it, identifies that the voter and sealed envelope puts together with other sealed envelopes in the box, opens them after the vote ends at 20.00 hours. We have fulfilled our sacred duty to support people who care about this country, who sometimes have large assets, sometimes smaller ones, pay higher or lower taxes, with more or less resources from their parents and family members, who are concerned about the future of this country, who wish it well, we have allowed them to vote. No one should be afraid of those votes in Serbia, because all political parties count on working best in the interests of all citizens and citizens of Serbia, as well as those abroad. Otherwise, if personal motives were to guide us to whom we would allow to vote and who not, then the DS, for example, would allow only the Old City in Belgrade or Vracar to vote. Radicals would say, "Let's first make elections in Vojvodina, choose the government for all of Serbia on the basis of the results in Vojvodina, and then move on." Another party would be somewhere else, third on third, but that's why there's a unique, comprehensive voter list, which you'll never make, because you're not democratically profiled, you're not democratically inclined, Mr. Minister. And this time, as long as you're a minister, it was enough to get that polling list on the CD to be given to political parties. As I recall, your representative in one election commission was stealing that voter's list, the DSS representative, stealing and as the highest symbol of democracy, was to get hold of something the government has and the opposition doesn't have. Back then, Bakarec was in opposition, stole DS's unique CD polling list, and then boasted in the papers until you returned to the government again. Now you don't lock yourself in the toilets for CDs, now for something else. So, the most sacred duty is not to remind you of the members of the constitution that regulate it – to allow Serbian citizens to vote. It's a waste of our time, Article 38. The constitution, which states in paragraph 2, that a Serbian citizen cannot be deprived of citizenship, for nothing to a member on the 33rd party, seems to me, which tells me that every Serbian citizen has the right to vote. You are deprived of a large number of Serbian citizens of the right to vote by making voting conditions impossible for them. Our people who work, say, in the far east of Russia, have 12 time zones on the territory of a country that need to be mastered to come to Moscow to vote, since you only allow them to vote there. I ask you to take this very seriously, not seriously, as you have said in your explanation of the rejection of this amendment, and you say, "It is otherwise regulated in the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, and for everything not regulated by this law, the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments is applied." I'm telling you, if you were to regulate this in the law on the election of presidents, of course we would be obliged to make amendments and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs, but it's a job that, according to the Constitution, waits for us for three years. So no newspaper can be carried out in any novolex specialis because the basic law is not good, and the basic law will never be changed. We don't change the law on selecting Members of the People, and you're free to know that he's not good. Until we change it, we won't change any other laws. We will. This is really, almost, contio son qua non. Without this, there is no choice, Mr. Markovic. Think carefully: who would throw away 500,000 citizens who have the right to vote, which is the country in the world, just to assume they won't vote for DOS? It's a bad guess. They will vote for you at some rate, as much as you deserve, and for us in the percentage we deserve. But to reject the proposal like this, it's very simple, and it's absolutely impossible for the opposition to fake these votes. We should really make sure you don't steal our votes, because they're under your control and diplomatic and consular representations. We would have to send, finally we Serbian radicals, abroad members of the electoral committees, to make our first cost to the state. We've never done that before. When you tell me that somewhere in Vienna they've won the yellows, nobody's been in control there. Never boast of that victory when 60 voters vote, of which 50 are employed at the embassy and at the consulate. In prison, they usually vote for the SRS. Look at how many prisons you've run. How would they vote for you? You keep them there like cattle, like animals. They're our voters there. (President: Please don't throw it away. ) Never mind, Bosko Ristić throws and gives me a chance to answer his question now. It's like a replica of some kind to you. So, Mr. Ristic, we really got the most votes in prison. First, all the people in prison have something against the government. You know that. The government sent them to prison. On the other hand, you have made prison conditions unbearable to them. You have caesamats, not jails. They wouldn't fire you so many prisons, they wouldn't strike so much, and they wouldn't put their lives in danger if they proved it to you, and you wouldn't build so many new prisons if you had good conditions in prisons. I don't think they're voting for you because you're a lot of people who have been defending in prisons, Mr. Ristic. The way you defended them, that's how they vote for you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12462	National MP Dragan Todorovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't think you should go over this amendment lightly and really try to accept all these reasons that we have stated, which is why this amendment should be accepted. I'll give you one reason we've all met. I don't think there are any of the parliamentary political parties, and those that are in the Assembly today and those that are not in the Assembly. Remember how much the state cost Serbia to organise elections abroad. Remember those minor parties, especially the former foreign minister, who had more representatives on election committees than he totaled got votes in all those polling stations that were organised. Here you get the cheapest and safest model for our citizens abroad to vote. They've been absolutely assured of their secrecy. That's the thing that should define you in any way, Mr. Minister, to give your vote and accept this amendment. I think it's time for some of our people to be completely wiped out. Unfortunately, we had a lot of them, a long time, and they cost us a lot, from those ideological divisions after '41. the years until those divisions after 2000, especially the division of who is for Euro-Atlantic integration, who is not, etc. This would allow the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia to overcome these divisions with our own voice. Because our citizen, our citizen who votes abroad, except for that obligation he fulfils with his relatives and they call his country, in this way he would still feel like a full citizen of Serbia, because with the right to vote, the real right to vote, because in such a way a large number, not to say in a huge percentage, would use his right in the way provided for by the Law on selecting MPs. We have to admit it's not the best solution. We gave them the right, but they can't consume it. That's what you, Mr. Minister, must objectively accept as a fact. In this way every citizen, our citizen abroad, would have the opportunity to vote without it costing neither the state nor him anything. I guarantee you, if you calculate, and to that end, Mr. Minister, it's not hard to come at all, I'm telling you that the price of this kind of vote will be less than the organisation of a polling post in America or Australia. It will cost less the full voting process of all our citizens than just one polling post in one of the overseas states. I think it's time for this country to show that every citizen, no matter where he is, is in Serbia, is abroad. I'm not going to start by assuming that you're not going to make this possible for your citizens abroad because you're presupposing you don't have a strong foothold there. If you, Mr. Milivojevic, claim that it is the opposite, so you should accept this amendment sooner, then you will rather increase your number of votes and I think it is completely legitimate, and there is no reason not to accept such an opportunity to vote. Think about it, Mr. Minister, I think you have, I'm saying this most seriously, I'm not saying this right now, you can think that this is due to the assumption that more citizens abroad will vote for the SRS, but you have the historic ability to really enable our citizens to vote and thus show them that all citizens are the same, that we have tried to enable them to vote not only in the presidential elections, but also in the Law on selecting MPs. Because, don't forget, the largest number of our citizens who have left, which is completely natural, is the ultimate goal, when they finish working age, to return to the state of Serbia. Therefore, I think it is perfectly legitimate to allow them and to prepare the conditions when they return in a way that is completely legitimate, i.e. to vote for those political parties they think will somehow achieve their wishes and aspirations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12464	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Slavisa Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for interrupting such an important debate of the president's law and the election of president. A letter came today from 440 employees of "Nikola Tesla" Airport to the SRS Parliament Club. Now I'm going to read that letter. It is that 440 employees from Tuesday 4 December remain unemployed at the orders of Bojan Krišta, the new director of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. "The departure of former director of Nebojša Nedeljković and the arrival of the new Bojan Krist at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport ruled tyranny and horror. The workers are scared and scared for their jobs. Regardless of work experience and expertise, they are moving away from the company, and in it remains those who have a permanent working relationship based on 1. 11. In 2007. At the same time, a profile of education is expanded in the legal service for certain jobs, adding traffic to the completed economic and legal-burotechnic school so far. It is known from reliable sources that one of these persons is the wife of a prominent member of G17 plus. Also, from jobs that require a special licence, qualified people are sheltered, bringing in unskilled and without any work experience, which is difficult, and soon look for a easier job. An explanation for the latest offer to accept how to save extra employees and workers is presented 28. 11. In 2007, with oral intimidation from certain individuals, if not registered voluntarily, only three gross incomes will be paid. Permanent workers under new systemization should be fired 140, and those through service are not known numbers because they are not the attention or obligation of this director. There's exactly 300 of them. So there's a total of 440 workers. Many activities have been abolished, with seven plus business cabinets, and now there are 11 plus business cabinets, which draws four new directors, who are at least one new employee again. The following services are also abolished, such as a restaurant for food employees at the airport, whose employees are doing 12-hour tours, with an explanation above, stating that if someone is hungry they will hire someone third, preferably someone who had lunch with your director. He's thinking of Bojan Krishte from G17. Because of all this, I ask you to do something about this, to stand in the way of the ossion and the rude behavior of the God-fearing people who think they can do anything. I apologize for this letter, because it's written in a hurry, but we don't have time for employees at Nicole Tesla Airport. Your fellow citizen, who in 22 years' time at the airport, got rheumatism, asthma, and a lot of colleagues hired in one way or another who invested in the company. Gentlemen, you can see that this is a gentleman from G17, the new director of Bojan Krisht. We have some more information that we have received in the meantime, people who have been newly employed since 1.11.2007, a certain lady employed in 1.11.2007, Jovanovic Tanja, whose husband is a member of G17 Plus, Zorica Petrovic-Jablanović, Olga Vukomanovic, have been admitted as a commercial operator. Some can receive, work and get jobs, and receive personal income, and some have no right to feed their children and receive personal income. Ljiljana Simonovic, who is the director of finance, who is also from the 1st employee, but she left work because she has a hard job. They probably promised her something else, so she doesn't like it. A certain lady or Miss Kisic Jelena did not have the necessary work license, because of her being removed, received the transfer of Mr Matejic Aleksandar to hire Mrs Kisic Jelena in his workplace. Kisic Jeleni was also a difficult job, so she was transferred to another job. "Nikola Tesla" airport was constantly employed by 618 and has now, and 478 should remain, 140 permanent workers should be fired, and through annexes, they are service companies, they should be fired 300 workers. A program has been offered, which does not apply until December 4th, he is fired. We now have a program here in which, among other things, it writes - for the termination of the labour contract, with the payment of the severance allowance of one third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in the first ten years spent on work and working relationship and one quarter of the employee's earnings for each subsequent completed year of work in a working relationship over ten years spent in a working relationship, increased by a sum of 200 euros in dinar equivalent for each spent year at work, etc. Here you have three more items. New CEO Bojan Kristo, member of G17 Plus... Mr. Chairman, please, we are not at the market, what is the behaviour of the Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Albianic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12466	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12467	I'm sorry, I don't think this is right. So 440 citizens lose their jobs, and Mr. Miloljub Albianic of G17 plus mocks all that and distracts me in the exhibition. So, just for the public's sake, let me say it. The new CEO Bojan Kristo, member of G17 plus, Mr Albianic, does not give the other directors the right to vote and decides for themselves to split, who gets fired and who doesn't. He was the director of the lottery in Serbia, he was 31 years old and graduated from Harvard. These are your distinguished members and staff, or whatever you've already called them. The driver who drove him in the election campaign also found his job and got a job, driving the assistant director general, and the assistant director general came from the Faculty of Machines as well. This is a serious question, and I believe that Mr. Milorad Albianic and the G17 Plus party cannot answer something like this, because if they could answer this, they wouldn't do this kind of thing, they wouldn't leave 440 citizens and employees of "Nikola Tesla" without a job. So I ask Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica: will Mr Vojislav Kostunica fund 440 employees with monthly incomes as of Tuesday, December 4, to feed their families and educate their children? So, on December 4, 440 employees of Nicola Tesla Airport are leaving on the street and leaving without their receipts, ladies and gentlemen. All these are planned and planned by the G17 Plus party, which is together with Vojislav Kostunica in the Serbian government. How long in Serbia will people and citizens be out of work if they are not a specific or appropriate political party? In this case, at Nicole Tesla Airport, these experts from G17 plus. How long will Vojislav Kostunica approve of this ossion of individual behavior, as Mr. Bojan Krishte, who has sufficiently demonstrated his ability in malfeasances while he was three years director of "The People's Lottery", and now after the division of public enterprises or, as our people say, after the division of the party of the ruling coalition? Let it go, those from G17 plus, or DSS or DSS, are not our party – so they justify each other. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's all about the ruling coalition. I call on Vojislav Kostunica to suspend the layoff of workers at "Nikola Tesla" Airport because he will be held accountable together with G17, DS, New Serbia. And, as Mr Milivojevic said, to resign Prime Minister Kostunica, because together they will all be responsible for staying out of work and without their monthly incomes of 440 employees at "Nikola Tesla". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12468	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12469	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the formulation contained in Article 2. The draft law on elections for the President of the Republic is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I have proposed an amendment to which Article 2 is aligned with the current Constitution. Namely, in Article 2. The bill is a subtitle - Passive and active electoral law, and it is said among other things: "The right to choose the President of the Republic and be elected president of the Republic has every adult and business-qualified citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has residence in the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter: the voter). 'Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is completely clear. I really don't understand that the legislator didn't just bother to rewrite what the Constitution said, because he did so when it came to these two laws, but he put something in the constitutional formulation that does not stand in the Constitution. For the purposes of Article 52(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be the following - every adult, business-qualified citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be chosen, and there is a point. The legislator, instead of staying in constitutional formulation, adds another condition the Constitution does not know, which is that the voter, or candidate for the president of the Republic, must have a residence in the Republic of Serbia. We have just said that it is one provision that is discriminatory, that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and contrary to some elemental democratic principles. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, wherever he lives in the world, must have an active and passive electoral right, both in elections for MPs and in elections for the President of the Republic. And the government can't change the Constitution with its bill of law. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot, therefore, be given some new conditions that do not appear in the Constitution. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, wherever he lives in the world, from the United States, through Great Britain, France, Germany, the Russian Federation to Australia, must have the right to choose and be elected in the election for the president of the Republic of Serbia. In this first amendment, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic, we have also given you a methodology, or technology, how this right to exploit citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, which is to vote through the letter. Such a vote is economical, rational and absolutely enables every citizen of Serbia living abroad to exercise his electoral right. So we're not asking you to educate election committees abroad. We do not ask you that the state of Serbia allocates significant funds from the budget to organise elections abroad. It is enough for our people living abroad to vote through the letter, to give this letter to the relevant election committee that gave them the envelope, i.e. the ballot, and that is where the whole election process ends. I really don't know, Mr. Minister, where did you get the right, the courage to change the Constitution with the bill. I especially don't understand why you don't look up to your great friends from Zagreb, who you apologize to, who you write praises and your political friends from that same Zagreb get even high medals. Ustasha chief Stjepan Mesic was elected by all Croatian citizens who live anywhere in the world. Notorna is a fact, everyone knows this, since 1990, complete Ustasha emigration has won Croatian citizenship and votes in all elections held in Croatia, both in the elections for the Parliament, both in the elections for the President of the Republic and in the local elections. None of it in the world makes any kind of question. The worst Ustasha emigrants, descendants of those who killed Serbs in World War II, are today prominent citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have the right to choose the president of the Republic of Croatia. By the way, it is the same president whose current Serbian president, fortunately, will not be long, apologized for the crimes allegedly committed by Serbs over the Croats. Then why didn't you look up to those friends of yours? Why not learn a little of them how to defend the interests of the state and the people? Why don't you take some of that patriotism from those friends of yours? We're not asking you to give voter rights to Ustashas. We ask you to allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have a residence abroad to vote, not for Ustashas, Mr Ristic, to vote for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Among our people, Mr. Ristic, abroad, there are many honest worlds, many of them of which are only for political reasons in '45. The years they had to leave the country, there are many of their descendants. They still have Serbia at heart and soul today, and they would be very happy to vote for the president of the Republic of Serbia only if the law allowed them to do so. The constitution already allows them to do so. The law should only provide for a procedure to ensure that this right, contained in the Constitution, is achieved. No, the Constitution says -- any citizen of Serbia can vote, choose and be chosen; and then you propose a law in which you say -- yes, but must have a residence in the Republic of Serbia. What about those hundreds of thousands of Serbs, or citizens of Serbia living abroad, who are Serbian citizens or who intend to become and who want to vote? At the same time, we ask the same emigration, or diaspora, to be involved in investments in Serbia, to help. Well, isn't it better to have Serbian capital in Serbia than American, French, German or any other foreign? Is it not better that this way Serbia shows one act of goodwill to our scattered people in the world and that we tell them - people, please vote for the President of the Republic of Serbia, vote for MPs in the National Assembly, benefit from all your political rights that are otherwise the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This way, we all our people who live abroad, and there are many of them, even more than there are in Serbia, we refuse Serbia, we prevent them from being equal with other citizens, we set them up with some additional obstacles. I really don't know, Mr. Minister, where did you get the right to change the Constitution? You're asking for the Constitution to be respected. We ask that the constitution be respected when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija by Western forces. Our only link with Kosovo and Metohija, the legal link, is Resolution 1244 and this Constitution, and then you're running the Constitution yourself. The constitution says well - all citizens have the right to vote, and you say - yes, but they must also have a residence in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I have made is absolutely acceptable, Mr. Minister, in accordance with the Constitution, and unless you have an excessive amount of political ink, you will have to accept that amendment. Otherwise, you will reject the Republic of Serbia hundreds of thousands of our people who live in dispersion, and that is certainly not in the interest of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12470	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Nebojsa Rangelovic was accepted by the government, if I understood correctly, and he is almost identical to the amendment of Zoran Krasic. Now, what's the motive for why some amendment is accepted, and why not accept, judge for yourself. Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic suggested that Article 4 paragraph 2 "maintain" be deleted and the word "end" was added instead. It's meant to be held, or end the election. Zoran Krasic, a colleague from the SRS, suggested that, but also some changes in Article 4. By the way, Article 4 is talking about the deadline in which elections are discussed and held, and this member, Mr. Minister, is inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the position of the first member, the election for the President of the Republic is said to be called by the President of the National Assembly by a decision published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". There, of course, we have no objections, it's in accordance with the Constitution. But Article 2 says -- elections for the President of the Republic are being discussed 90 days before the term of office of the President of the Republic, so that, you say, they are being held within the next 60 days of the election, and we are saying that they end in the next 60 days of the election, because holding elections and ending elections is not the same and you have acknowledged it by the fact that you adopted Mr. Rangelovic's amendment to Article 4 of paragraph 2 of this law, where he suggested that you change the word "maintain" by saying "end". So, you admit it and accept it in this amendment, and then I'll read to you why you didn't do it when it comes to Mr. Zoran Krasic's amendment. In the view of the 3rd of this article, it is said: 'If the term of office of the President of the Republic is extended because of the war or emergency, elections for the President of the Republic shall be held at the latest three months from the date on which the war or emergency ceases. 'And here we intervened not to say that they were kept, but to end within that time limit. Item 4: ''If the President of the Republic ceases his term before he is elected, the elections for the President of the Republic shall be held no later than three months from the date on which the President of the Republic shall be suspended. ''We had a remark here that if the President of the Republic stops the term of office before he is elected, the elections for the President of the Republic are being discussed, we added, on the same day as the reasons set out in Articles 117 and 118. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will read, of course, and what is said in these two members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, once again, we asked that after the word "sustain," they add the words "and end" the elections. In Article 5, which reads: "From the day of the election to the day of the vote, it cannot last less than 30 days or more than 60 days." We added the words 'with what they must end within the time limit of Article 4'. So this amendment was intended to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly's majority to Article 4. Get the bill in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 117. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that when the president of the Republic resigns, he also informs the public and the president of the National Assembly. On the day of the resignation of the President of the Republic, the term of office shall cease. Article 118, which we have also called upon, reads this amendment -- the President of the Republic is hereby authorised for violation of the Constitution by a decision of the National Assembly, with votes of at least two-thirds of the MPs. The discharge procedure may be initiated by the National Assembly on a proposal of at least one third of the MPs. The Constitutional Court is obliged to decide, no later than 45 days, that there is a breach of the Constitution. It may seem that I have quoted too much the Constitution and this amendment of ours, but it is simply my intention that the MPs, and above all, the public of Serbia, understand what this is all about. The government did not accept the amendment of Zoran Krasic, and the explanation is this: 'Amendment is not accepted... ''It's a famous opening sentence for every amendment, as if we don't know that in this second section it stands: the government proposes to the National Assembly not to accept amendments. So it's completely too high to tell us again, to confirm that you don't accept. Here's why the government doesn't accept the amendment. You say, "The Constitution makes a difference between the term 'end' and'maintain' elections." That's what this is all about. Why didn't you agree with the Constitution? That's what it's all about, that the Constitution makes a difference and, in general, there's a difference between the elections held and the elections ended. You know there is, we'll see through this law later, the elections are held, so there's a right to object, so there's a right to appeal to the Supreme Court, so they become election results final, and then they end. There is also the possibility of re-election in some polling stations, where it is found that there was some lack in accordance with this law that we hope to adopt, or whatever, and based on the law that is now in force, it has not changed and it does not change. "Then," you say, "the amendment (in the third amendment) refers to an article. 118th and 119th The Constitution, and it is necessary and sufficient to call only on Article 120(2). The Constitution. I really didn't understand, Minister, why, if you did, and I don't even know if you read this, you still have the same problem as yesterday, so when you were giving a final word, I don't know what you ended when you didn't even talk about these amendments to this previous law, we threw it to you and asked you to say that the law you offered to the National Assembly is a good law. You've avoided saying that. When you defend the laws behind you as a minister, then orderly recommend the law as good, as celebular, etc. You didn't have a single argument for this one before, and I can see that you won't have one for this one and that it's probably complicated for you to get involved. Of course, I don't underestimate your legal knowledge or your intelligence, on the contrary, but I don't think you have anything or interest in getting involved in these amendments right now, especially in some as complicated as what counterpart Zoran Krasic suggested. Here, I'll read what Article 120, paragraph 2, reads. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to which the government points us, is the only member, or only provision that we could call upon. That position 2 reads -- the president of the National Assembly can replace the President of the Republic for the longest three months. Now, who tells me what this has to do with this article and this amendment I'm talking about, then I'm really going to admit that I have no idea what it says here. "The deadline laid down in Article 5," the government said, "The draft law concerns all elections for the President of the Republic, not only for elections held when the President of the Republic ceases his term before the time he was elected." Now, Mr. Minister, what's true here, what did you really mean by this amendment, or what's in the statement in paragraph 2 or what's in the statement in the first position? Because they kind of disagree, they're collapsing, look. Your Article 4 is clear that it refers to a deadline in which elections are discussed and held, and there is no dispute regarding Articles 120, 118 or 119. The constitution of that meaning, but it is in the sense that you did not legislate exactly what these three members of the Constitution predict. Where you now see what you have said in your explanation, and as regards Article 5, that Article 5 is The bill refers to all elections for the President of the Republic, not just for elections held when the President of the Republic ceases his term before the time he was elected? This attitude says, "From election day to voting day, there can be no less than 30 days or more than 60 days." We add here: 'with what they must end within the time limit of Article 4'. Is it clear to anyone now why the government has said that this amendment cannot be accepted? It really isn't for me. Maybe I'm not smart enough, maybe I don't understand this enough, but I really don't understand what the government is trying to say. You really should learn, gentlemen, from the government, to be clear, loud and open, to say: this amendment is not accepted because we won't. Then it's completely legitimate, it's your right, you say: we want this, we don't accept that anyone influences our opinion, we don't accept that anyone convinces us of anything different. Then we'll talk another way, not about the amendment, but about the government. But if you are one amendment, which absolutely harmonizes Article 4 with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you say you do not accept, and then you give an unambiguous explanation, then it is incorrect, then it is underestimating the intelligence of the MPs. And you have to keep an eye on every time you try to underestimate the intelligence of the MPs, you actually underestimate and insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. It would really be good for you to have this in mind and to tell Mr. Balinovac and the others who write reasons why they do not accept our amendments, to explain to them that they do so in writing, to do so, if they can, in accordance with the Constitution, and they cannot, because our amendments are exactly what they refer to the Constitution, but, frankly, I recommend to you, it is best for you to say for every amendment: The Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept this amendment because the Government does not want it, we can. We'll say, "Well done, you can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want, Mr. Markovic."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12472	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find that my colleague Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're going back. Your amendment was, and you haven't answered. Here you go. I'm asking the Minister not to speak to the People's MP, Veronica Radet. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12473	Mr. Konstantinovicu, by the way, you tell me -- these are working bodies and they are not election bodies, and they are not regulated by law. This is the introduction to the amendment I'm going to talk about. The point is, we want to regulate ourselves by law. That's the point. I'm really sorry the minister came out, and I apologize to you, Mr. Dulic, for not hearing you read that the amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. So, Article 7. The bill speaks of the authorities that conduct the elections. The government here wrote only one sentence: "The elections for the President of the Republic are carried out by the authorities that hold elections for MPs." We have proposed specifically what are the bodies that hold elections for the President of the Republic. I remind you that whenever the election law of the President of the Republic is applied, everything that is not contained in that law is subject to the subsidiarity of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and of course it is not disputed. But if we are now passing a law on the election of presidents, then there is no need to leave anything to that subsidiary application, but we are in a position to make sure that everything that should be contained in this law on the election of presidents is now done, which through what the government has proposed, through the amendments that the MPs have submitted to this law. I have to tell you that the amendment to Article 7 came from experience, like all of our amendments, you know, we all in the elections, I no longer know how many electoral rounds there were, which is parliamentary, which I personally was a member of the Republic Election Commission, and besides that, of course, we were very actively following the elections and we know exactly what the problems are, what needs to be strictly and strictly regulated by law, in order for the election bodies to have as little problems as possible to think about this or that, to assess whether they can do this or not. I'll read what we've predicted to be a member of the 7th of this law, which is what election bodies we've foreseen, and then of course I'll explain why each of these bodies individually. We have proposed that Article 7 be changed and read as follows: ''Organs for the conduct of the election of the President of the Republic are: the Republic Election Commission, working bodies and election committees. The permanent working body shall be composed of the president and at least four members, and in the expanded composition of one representative of the electoral list. The president and members of the working body have deputies. The presidents and members of the working bodies are appointed by the Republic Election Commission for each election, based on the proportional representation of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The working body: 1. organises technical preparations for the conduct of elections; 2. proposes a permanent composition of the electoral committee based on the proportional representation of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 3. takes the electoral material from the Republic of Election Commission and, together with a certified copy of the electoral list, gives it to the electoral committees; 4. takes the electoral material from the electoral committees and, together with a certified copy of the electoral list, gives it to the Republic Election Commission. The spacious, professional and technical conditions for the work of the working body shall be provided by the municipality for whose area is the educated working body. Closer instructions on the work of the working body are prescribed by the Republic Election Commission. ''I don't think anyone who has ever participated in elections at a republican level can have any objections to this member. We have explained in reason that the working bodies, as the authority of the Republic Election Commission, are taking part in the conduct of elections for MPs. I therefore believe that the working body should be an authority in the process of implementing the election of the President of the Republic, with a defined way of forming and having the powers to conduct the elections. I'll bet I'll explain and bring you closer. It is indisputable that the Republic Election Commission is an electoral body. It is indisputable that they are election committees. So far, it has not been regulated that the electoral authority and the working body are. That working body actually existed and worked in the field. How did it work and what was going on? In some elections, in the election for MPs, this job is being carried out by municipal election committees, which also should be amended in accordance with this provision, and when it comes to the election of the president, there was no subsidiary application of a member who spoke about what the election bodies are for MPs and the Republic Election Commission decided that there is a working body between the Republic Election Commission and the Election Committee. The working body, since it was not defined by law, was elected in local units of local self-government. The vote is proportional to the party composition of local self-government. It can't be, it's not good, because this is about the election of the President of the Republic, it's not about the election of municipal councils, it's about the election of the President of the Republic, where Serbia is one electoral unit, and these working bodies are the auxiliary bodies that conduct the elections simply because the Republic Election Commission cannot be in the seat of each municipality at the same time, which is impossible for someone from some village, at Leskovec, at Valjev, Knic, no matter where, it can't come to the Republic Election Commission to take over material. The Republic Election Commission must deliver and deliver electoral material to each municipality's headquarters, as elections are held everywhere, of course. One or two representatives of the Republic Election Commission always go along with that material. It is a practice that has already been established through the Regulation on the work of the Republic Election Commission, that the Republic Election Commission shall establish co-ordinators for each district and then the election material shall be carried to the district headquarters, and representatives of municipalities shall come to the headquarters of the district. And what's going on? This is where the material is handed over, and it happens that in some municipalities, where the SRS doesn't participate in the government, it's certainly like that, but I'm speaking from the practice of the SRS, so where the SRS doesn't participate in the government, we have no idea what's going on with the material from the moment that the working body, which is informal, is formed by the secretary, or by the head of the municipal administration, who puts in that body, we have no idea, and this working body takes over material from the RIK still doesn't know what's going on with this House Opening Decision, whether that material is authentically handed over to election committees. First whether it has reached every municipality in the county, then whether it has been handed over to the electoral board, and then whether all of the members of the election board, and when I say all of them, I mean the extended composition, because the election committees in the permanent and expanded composition, I guess none of you are unclear anymore, have absolutely the same rights, although in some of the polling stations you try, rights and obligations, it is different to present, so that the suggestion that the working body be an official electoral body, with these competencies that I have stated and that I will repeat them once again, we believe that it will only lead to any doubts about what happens with the election material, what happens to the ballots. You know, there's been a lot going on in these last 20 years when it comes to elections. Remember those of you who were banging in pots, pots, blowing whistles, etc., there were many suspicions and election thefts, there was a lex specialist, there was also when we from the SRS to Kosovo and Metohija sent our representatives there to try to preserve the election result, and then the MPs were arrested, there was everything. But I'm not saying that now, ma'am, but just to tell you that all this time we've all been fighting to really get to a democratic electoral principle, where no one will ever have the grounds to suspect someone who stole anything from him, whether they didn't steal it, whether we're now thinking about what these "yellows" have now put Slobodan Gavrilovic as the director of the Official Messenger, when it's almost certain that the official messenger is going to print ballots. That, for example, creates suspicion for us. But if we have such a regulated article 7, then we have a coordinator for a particular RIK district being in the Official Messenger, if it's the Official Messenger who's going to print the ballots, the whole material is followed by that coordinator, or two coordinators are always in question, going to the county headquarters. In the county a working body that has responsibility, because if it's an election authority, then it has a criminal responsibility if it abuses its function. When he's some coordinating body that he chooses there some secretary of the municipality or head of the administration, he doesn't answer to anyone for anything, and if we regulate him here that he's an official electoral authority, then he's responsible, and then he's also covered by that crime where the sentence of prison is prescribed for up to three years because of any abuse of choice. So we think that it is necessary and practical to explain to you again, when it comes to district headquarters, if you accept this amendment, we have a working body that is composed of this Parliament. At any moment like that. The relationship of parties in parliament is such a relationship between parties in the working body. Local self-governments, i.e. the mayors of municipal administrations, are obliged to provide space for the storage of material, are obliged to provide rooms for the maintenance of the elections, to keep these premises and for all these local self-governments to receive a certain fee. So nothing changes in the jurisdiction of local self-government, we just have one perfectly healthy system and organs to conduct choices that can and criminally be held accountable. I hope you've been following me closely and I can see that it's even a little 15 minutes to explain all this. You think that's funny? I'm sorry. In particular, since you, a colleague, from Kosovo and Metohija, I will tell you that for the last elections, thanks to the fact that we did not have this prescribed by law, the SRS in Kosovo and Metohija did not have any representatives in the working body. It's funny to you, but we don't think it's funny, because we want every election to be conducted in accordance with the law and that we don't pass laws that will ever allow the theft of the electoral will of citizens, because stealing the electoral will of citizens is one of the most serious crimes. I ask you to seriously consider this amendment. I'm sorry there are no heads of the parliamentary clubs of the ruling coalition and there is no minister here present. I really believe they would accept voting for this amendment. I hope they're at least listening to this and that I've convinced them, of course I'm willing to continue to explain and perhaps through some other amendment or individual, because I think this is an extremely important amendment to the regular conduct of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12474	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the institution of the President of the Republic is one of the most important state institutions. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives the President of the Republic significant powers, above all in the field of foreign policy, in the area of defence, the Serbian Army, pardons and in a whole series of other issues that are extremely important for the interests of the state and the nation. We in the SRS believe that only those candidates with real political strength, only serious political candidates, who tomorrow, if they win the elections, can participate in this responsible role in the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens. I have proposed by amendment that in Article 10(1) of the '10,000' article be replaced by '50,000', namely that the proposal for the President of the Republic should support not 10,000 voters but 50,000 voters with its signatures. We believe that 50,000 voters are one figure that says that the candidate is serious, that he has a real foothold in the electoral body and that tomorrow, if he wins the elections, he will be able to perform this function in a legally valid manner, in a way that will not endanger the interests of the state and the nation. In principle, we heard a comment on the proposal for a bill on elections for the President of the Republic, or a single opinion by the representatives of the SVM, that this amendment is in fact directed against the interests of national minorities. I need this opportunity to repeat that that's not true. We in the SRS believe that national minorities should absolutely integrate into Serbia's society, that they should be citizens of Serbia, like all others, with the same rights and same obligations and that no political party, including parties representing themselves as protectors of the rights of national minorities, must have an exclusive political monopoly on their votes. Practice has shown that especially in Vojvodina, where many members of national minorities, Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Roma and all others live, precisely many members of the national minorities vote for the SRS. I can even give you examples of individual places in Vojvodina that are mostly populated, for example, by the Hungarian population, and where the overwhelming majority of votes are received by the SRS. I can give you examples of individual villages in Srem and Vojvodina, where mostly members of the Hungarian national minority, who did not want to allow, for example, Joseph Kasa to hold a pre-election rally there, because they felt that he shared them with their Serbian neighbours and that he had nothing to look for in that place. We think it is a wrong assumption that Hungarians living in Serbia, above all in Vojvodina, must vote for SVM, that members of another national minority by definition must only vote for a political party that brings together members of that national minority. We believe that all citizens of Serbia, regardless of national or religious membership, should be granted the same political rights, that is, the same freedom in elections. The SVM MPs in this House have argued that this amendment, in fact, discriminates against members of national minorities, that is to say, we raise that limit in the number of signatures to one level that they cannot reach. That is not true, that is, if SVM wants to win votes solely by members of the Hungarian national minority. We also tell them this way to turn to support their candidate and those who are not Hungarians, to knock on the Serbian door, to knock on Slovak and Roma doors, to show themselves as a party representing the interests of all citizens living in Serbia. I fully understand the need for individual political parties to protect, above all, the interests of a particular national minority, but I cannot understand that one political party is defined exclusively for one part of the electoral body and that all other voters are not interested. So we absolutely believe that this amendment does not violate and question the rights of any national minority. On the contrary, we consider their political rights to be affirmative. In the SRS, we do not want to allow, after all, any political party, which is represented as an exclusive agent of the interest of a particular national minority, to have a monopoly on so-called. minority voices. Where it says that Hungarians living in Vojvodina must only vote for SVM, that the Slovaks living in Vojvodina must only vote for a political party representing members of the Slovak national minority or that the Roma living in Serbia must only vote for one of the Roma parties, when it is the fact that just a number of members of the national minority, specifically Roma, are voting right for the SRS. It is well known that almost all Roma are voting for an SRS candidate in Zemun, i.e. the SRS electoral list. So the number of 50,000 court-certified signatures, which support the proposal for a candidate for the President of the Republic, is absolutely politically justified. I believe that all parliamentary groups in this assembly must accept this amendment. What happens if what's left of the bill, and that's 10,000? An extremely large number of non-serious candidates will appear. We've had cases so far that individuals were running for President of the Republic's election, and then they get fewer votes than they have signatures that support their candidacy. Therefore, elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia must not be a political circus, they must not be a political farce. It has to be one serious political game where several of the strongest candidates will weigh their strengths. Otherwise, there's gonna be a voice spread. In the end, don't forget that too many candidates in the election for the President of the Republic are financially burdening the Republic of Serbia's budget to a great extent. It's enough that there are several serious candidates. Let them cross their spears and let them win the best. As for members of the national minorities, we in the SRS offer a comprehensive political partnership. They themselves claimed that they were both played by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. That's exactly what SVM MPs claimed. Here, we are now offering them a hand of cooperation and we say – we are ready to try to solve any problems you face in your daily life in conversation with you. It is not true that the SRS is opposed to any national minority. Today, however, there are also some political parties and individual NGOs that members of the national minorities fear the SRS and thanks to this fear that caused a number of members of the national minorities, among other things, won Boris Tadic in 2004. Because they told the Hungarians in the north of Backah: if Tomislav Nikolic wins, you can move immediately to Hungary. They also told members of another national minority: you can move from Serbia. It is not Tomislav Nikolic, as an SRS candidate, nor is the SRS a danger to anyone. However, we are a danger to criminals, to those who are working against the interest of the Serbian state, that is to say, we are a danger to all those who are working to undermine Serbia's territorial integrity. But no Hungarian, no Slovak, no Romanian, no Bulgarian, no Roma, no Albanian living in Serbia has to be afraid of the SRS. The amendment is not aimed at any national minority living in Serbia, but simply wants the election match for the president of the Republic to be serious and to look like the election games that exist in the developed countries of the world. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here. I don't know if the Secretary of State has the right to speak. You have no right to speak? I am sorry that the minister did not authorise you to go out for a pay phone and try to explain in his absence what it is that prevents the Serbian government from accepting this amendment. Otherwise, the reason for the rejection of this amendment is routine, sterile, colourless, slightly confusing. I have proposed an amendment that is extremely serious, and I think I have given one solid explanation for this amendment, and the government has given an explanation in all two sentences. One sentence is classic, it will enter the anthology of writing the bill, which is that the amendment is not accepted, although the previous government has said for the entire list of amendments that it does not accept them, but probably in the lack of arguments people do not know what to say, and then they repeat what they said at the beginning, which is that the amendment is not accepted. The following sentence: "The amendment promoter did not provide sufficient arguments in favour of the claim that the number of voters who support the candidate for the President of the Republic should be increased from 10,000 to 50,000." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the argument to that extent is clear that it does not need to be particularly explained. We want to have a serious match for the President of the Republic, we want the best candidate to win, we want to beat the candidate who will best defend and protect the interests of the Serbian state and the interests of its citizens. We in the SRS believe that the number of 50,000 voters is one solid figure guaranteeing the seriousness of the candidates, and, on the other hand, we are confident that the next election for the President of the Republic will be won by SRS candidate Tomislav Nikolic and you will see, and especially by members of national minorities, not that anything ugly will happen to them, their daily life can only be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12476	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12477	Since he has mentioned it several times, and I also support the amendment, that is, this amendment, because it was the Hungarians, the SVM, who were against this proposal, and now unfortunately they are not in the hall. If they believe they represent all Hungarians in Vojvodina, that all Hungarians in Vojvodina are SVM voters, in that case it will be no problem to raise five or six times as many as 50,000 votes. However, as we have heard from my predecessor so far, Hungary has in all other parties. Not all Hungarians are in one party, in SVM. A large number of Hungarians are in the SRS. Speaking about some parts of Serbia, he probably meant kickinda, where of the total members of the SRS 10% is Hungarian. That's about as much as Hungary has in Kickinda in SVM. So, I mean, he can't even represent himself as a representative of the interest of all Hungarians. It is a one-national party, composed of citizens of one nationality, while the SRS is a party that has in its ranks citizens of all nationalities. The interest of Hungary and other national minorities who have understood this can best be implemented if they support the strongest party. That's why we invited Hungarians, I'm talking about Kickinda, in local self-government to participate with us in power, and that way it will be easier to achieve its interests. I won't say those rights that they don't have, because they all have equal rights, but interests, and to help them more in culture, education, and everything that Hungarians and other national minorities need, and not make a difference between them. It will be easier to achieve all national minorities if they are with larger and stronger parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12478	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12479	Ladies and gentlemen, I will return only briefly to the explanation of the amendments to Article 7, in order to try once again to convince the MPs that this is a good amendment and to draw attention that this is not a matter of not being misunderstood, not to be misunderstood, the interest of the SRS, but indeed the interest of the properly implemented and legally held elections. Because when I talked about some municipalities where it wasn't in the working bodies of members of the SRS, it could have happened, and maybe it happened in some municipalities where they worked in power. We want it settled legally, no matter who. It's not a very good argument, Vladino. He says he does not accept the amendment because the concept of the bill is to set up a single system of bodies to conduct elections in elections for MPs and in elections for the President of the Republic. This is really not a good explanation, because the Law on the Selection of Members of the People is not a holy letter. If we change it here, we can change it in that law. In particular, it is not true, he says: ''Therefore, the bill is set up to automatically enable the monitoring of changes in the basic law (the law governing elections for MPs)... '"It's not the basic law. A special law on the election of MPs is a special law on the election of presidents. The fact that we have so far had a law on the election of a president who has not comprehensively elaborated this matter, then we are normal, and that is right, normally, we have subsidizedly applied this law, which is otherwise related to the conduct of the elections. This amendment is precisely aimed at making as little use of this other law as possible and if it is possible to regulate this law on the election of a president that we do not need any law on which we will rely or which we will subsidically use, but all that is in this law. That's why I needed to read this, to convince you that this is really good. As I think the explanation for the amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic, according to the government, is that he did not provide enough arguments, why it would be good for presidential candidates to support themselves with 50,000 with 10,000 citizens' signatures. Maybe it wasn't argumentized enough in the amendment itself. It is common, when an amendment is written, that the explanation is written in one or two sentences, only to draw attention to what it refers to. I think colleagues Martinovic and Otto Kishmarton have so well explained this amendment after him, that the government has no reason to say there is no longer enough arguments to accept this amendment. In fact, I have volunteered to speak of an amendment to Article 10(4) submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. Article 10 discusses the signatures of support for the candidate's proposal. These two of our colleagues suggest that Article 10, Article 4, be deleted. It's a bill of law. Item 4: 'The voter can only support one candidate by signing. ''Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov and Mr. Alexander Marton suggest that it be deleted, with an explanation that it cannot be limited to the right of citizens to sign more than one candidate for president of the Republic of Serbia. The candidate's support, they say, is separate from the election for the president, when every adult and business-qualified citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who has an active and passive electoral right, can show his trust only to one candidate on the list. Of course, this amendment is, I don't mean to be rude, but I really have to say, it doesn't make sense. It's completely pointless, unfounded in neither the Constitution nor any regulation. It's certainly contrary to common sense. The explanation is no better. Imagine now what would be the purpose of collecting signatures to support presidential candidates if a citizen could sign as many of those lists as he wants. All these signatures are certified court and fees are paid. If that were the case, then certainly every single one of us in our neighborhood, in the nearest environment, here we go, every single one of us living in the same environment at the door, each one of us getting a signature, because the neighbor won't mind his neighbor. If it doesn't cost him anything, he'll sign both Mark and Jank. That's not the point of collecting those signatures. On the contrary, we want to serious political scene, we want to round up the political scene. I guess that is important and I guess that is the purpose of these twenty years of parliamentary life in Serbia. I guess we should improve parliamentary life and parliamentary work. It seems to me, this amendment seems to have occurred to someone to write something out of spite, because I really can't believe whoever wrote this amendment thought something like this could be accepted. I'm convinced the MPs won't vote for this amendment, but I had a need to tell the public what it was about, that none of these two colleagues in some media or I don't know, says, well, we've been putting up with the amendments, no one accepts our amendments. That's what we say, because they really don't accept our amendments. But every time we have an explanation, and in the text of the amendment, and, of course, later on from this place, we explain every amendment. So I propose that both the Minister and the People's MPs not accept this pointless amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12480	Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12481	The SPS will not support this amendment. If this amendment were accepted, we would have a category of so-called professional candidates who could charge it several times, as they are now charging. We will initiate a law on political parties and we will offer it to you, that those parties running at any level for any election and receiving fewer votes than was necessary for that candidacy in the next elections, can no longer run or cannot run their lists in the election unit, if it is local elections. I will remind you, both for the President of the Republic and for the parliamentary elections of at least 10 parties, have reached fewer votes than the necessary number of signatures to support the candidacy. It's a shame. Besides making a fuss, making a fuss on Serbia's political scene, the small political parties usually do not exist at all. There were some parties that Ubod formed, now had this one of yours, when Pavkovic was running and others, and then he got four and a half times less votes than you provided him with the signatures. So it's not allowed. Therefore, you said well, Mrs. Radeta, this amendment is pointless and it would not only be ugly, but also dangerous to accept. On the other hand, as head of the SPS election headquarters in Moravik County, a few years ago I warned that some political parties to support their electoral lists had lists of full protocols of medical institutions, SUP, Employment Service, from one to the right. It's a criminal act. That's what we've informed the public about. We promised the lawsuit, so we changed our minds, but we didn't forget. So these are the parties of the so-called democratic bloc. First of all, the G17 party. Please, it is something that is not allowed and, if this amendment were accepted, then this would become one mess in Serbia, where some would make more or less fine profits and others create an impression, which is otherwise not real, that they exist on Serbia's political scene, and in fact they represent nothing. There is an electoral list in Cacca that received 7-8 times less votes for the president of the municipality in the last local self-government election than was necessary. It is a political life in Serbia and this amendment would be extremely delicate, and these consequences I am talking about would make it even harder and hopefully no one will support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12482	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said and when I explained the previous amendment, elections for the President of the Republic should be as serious as possible. This should be a serious political game, and it should give all those involved in these elections enough time to achieve their rights and obligations in increasingly high-quality ways. Here I think of candidates for the President of the Republic, as well as the authorities that conduct the elections. Namely, MP Momir Markovic proposed an amendment to Article 11. The bill passed the election to the President of the Republic. The position now reads as follows: "The candidate proposal is submitted to the Republic Election Commission no later than 20 days before election day". National MP Momir Markovic suggested that this "20 days" be translated into "25 days". The amendment should be accepted for several reasons. First of all, the amendment allows the election authorities to have enough time to prepare all necessary materials to conduct the elections. Otherwise, this amendment is related to an amendment submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. It is indeed inadmissible that there is no provision in the Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic which regulates which bodies are responsible for the conduct of the elections. Indeed, the amendment of the People's MP Verica Radete is perfectly drawn up, it is perfectly clear, precise, unequivocal and in practice can only facilitate the conduct of the elections. That's why I'm calling you, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you weren't here when Mrs. Radeta explained her amendment, but here's your material. You will see that the amendment is really ideal, if anything can be ideal, and I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to accept the amendment. So, the electoral authorities, which are the authorities, are suggested by Ms. Verica Radeta in her amendment, leaving a 25-day deadline, give enough time to prepare all the material necessary for the conduct of the election. Also, voters, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to vote, are left with enough time to get acquainted with the fact that they are candidates, what are their electoral programmes, and that then every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has enough time to decide which candidate will be defined in the elections. This 25-day deadline allows candidates for the President of the Republic to present themselves to voters, to present their election programmes and to try to convince citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are the ones who can do the best possible to achieve the interests of the state and its citizens. Finally, the 25-day deadline gives sufficient time to end the procedure for the protection of electoral rights, both in front of the electoral authorities and in front of the competent courts. Since this amendment is related to the amendment submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet and since both amendments and how they make sense, I invite you, Mr Minister, to accept both of these amendments. Otherwise, your argument, i.e. the government's argument for the amendment of the People's MP Verica Radeta and for the amendment of MP Momir Markovic, is indeed a shame and I really don't understand why the Serbian government did not accept these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12484	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize, I will return to the Verse of Radete amendment concerning Article 7. The elections for the President of the Republic shall be carried out by the bodies holding elections for the Members of Parliament. I'd like to point out to you, Mr. Minister, some facts that I think you should adopt and I don't think should be problematic. The amendments can be submitted for two reasons. One is to improve the law, to give a solution that could be better than the proposed government and others, for some political reasons. I claim that this amendment submitted by the Prophet Radet is very much about this first reason. Because what Verica Radeta has suggested allows all political parties in all situations, whether they are in position or opposition, to follow the electoral procedure in the best possible way. I honestly think that we have come to the consensus that elections should be fair, that is, to prevent the possibility of manipulation in the elections. Not to be falsely modest, I've been dealing with the elections for the last 15 years intensively, and I think we're as a party, just because, to the greatest extent or almost all the time, we've been in opposition, we've been able to look at all the problems we're facing as an opposition party at the time of the election, regardless of whether they were for the president or whether they were parliamentary or local elections. What's the basic problem in all the elections? The ability to control the electoral procedure. What's the chance to control election procedures? The representation of those who participate in the elections so they can control it. So you have to look at the situation, not just when you're in power. I guess it's not the government's interest to prevent control. I guess it is her overwhelming interest to allow the electoral procedure to be controlled, to show that the elections are completely legal, that the law is respected and that there is no possibility of abuse of the electoral procedure. I think it is also of interest for you to make it possible for all who participate in the elections to be able to control the electoral procedure, because by the very fact that you are giving you the right, you are letting the citizens of Serbia know that you have no intention whatsoever to abuse power to eventually get votes in the elections that you would otherwise not get if the electoral procedure is respected. When you look at this proposal, you see that the details were all worked out and that it was not at all about who the position was, and who the opposition was, but only about the electoral procedure, that the electoral procedure was controlled. I don't think anyone needs the situation we've had in the nearer or further past, when the electoral procedure has been misused, when, I say, in some way, the election results have not been obtained through the ballot box, but in another way. Why don't you, who once advocated the possibility of an election procedure that will make it impossible, accept this now? There's absolutely no point here that's tied to the party. We're not looking at the position and opposition, the government and the opposition at all. We're just looking at an election procedure. We propose a way to prevent the abuse of this electoral procedure by means of a complete electoral process through the authority to conduct the election of the President of the Republic to be monitored by the electoral commission, working bodies and election committees. That's the only thing you can do if you adopt this amendment. Here at the assembly, I set an example of a vote for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly and deputies, where unfortunately, DS and DSS representatives do not know the concept or knowingly violate a secret vote. How can you stop it? You can prevent the election committees, the working bodies, from having representatives of those parties in parliament, and you thus give full legitimacy to these elections. You bring election procedure, not to mention perfection, but to a process where it cannot be abused. I think that you should, you should have until the end until this law is passed, that you look well and that if there is something that isn't possibly appropriate there to change, but I think it's all worked out precisely, and it wouldn't in any way violate this law, it would only improve it and, if you adopt this amendment, I'm sure that future presidential elections will go the best way possible. I'd just point your attention to one thing. Remember the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was adopted by consensus in November 2000. A year. The law proposed an SRS, based on the experience of opposition action. Look, to this day-to-day, almost nothing has changed in that law. There are some things, such as voting abroad, because it's normal that certain things can and should change, but essentially nothing has changed. For what? For the simple reason, because the law is made so that you, and if you're in a position and if you're in opposition, it suits you. If you make such a law, be assured that this law will be a somewhat longer century and will not only serve while you are in power, and the first change of government will be a change of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12486	The National MP, Dr Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 11th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have been discussing the ninth hour of this autumn on two laws practically, and what I want to say at the very beginning is, it's already clearly crystallized, that we have here two unquality laws, which were quickly passed and offered to us for adoption. Already before me, my colleagues from the SRS said, and for God's sake, other political parties, which is why we have such unquality laws and why haste. We need to get to the presidential elections as soon as possible. That's the first reason. The second, of course, should be re-elected by the same president. We know an event that will follow safely, and only time without some bad events will not be an ally to the current president of the state. In front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 and that Article 11, as you could see, is talking about submitting a proposal for a candidate, what should contain the proposal and list, in addition to the candidate generals, you should have a written statement from the candidate that he accepted the candidacy, you have confidence in citizenship, confidence in the candidate's electoral right, confirmation of the candidate's residence and several other items. And then we in the SRS felt it was logical to add point 5 behind point 4 which would also say that "the confidence of the health condition, issued by the VMA" was also to be given. The explanation was brief. We thought that it was logical and understandable, that we find it very important and necessary that the candidate for the President of the Republic bear confidence in the state of health. What an answer we've received since our amendment has been denied. It is said this way: "Health confidence is not a condition for running as a member of the People's Parliament or a member of the Government, so there should be no conditions for running for President of the Republic." The answer is, is that right, a man can speak illogically, and can be said to be an attempt of little cunning. It is illogical because analogy establishes concepts that are not the same. I don't think it's possible to identify the post of MP with the post of president of the state. It's something that's fundamental to me. On the other hand, I can understand the one who wrote the answer that, coming to a position that he could respond, he thinks that one day he could be president of the state. It's nothing unusual, it may not be against you, but it's suspicious. However, the society in which we live, that one minister says to himself that he is on his way to obtain the Nobel Prize and that he expects that he will also get it, justifies a view like this. The same minister, however, wins another prize. Of course, later we find out that he had to pay for it, and then when we look at the warlords in the last ten years, we see that from no country that has a serious economy, you don't have one person who's won that prize and, of course, they're all people from transition countries. If I wanted to be malignancies, I could say banana state. Well, let's get back to the subject of my exposure. What am I supposed to prove? I need to prove two things here to explain. The first view, that the president of the state in my opinion is one of the highest in the hierarchy of all the functions of political in this country, that the president of the state represents, when it becomes this, a certain honor for the person elected as President of the Republic. The President of the Republic also has extremely important powers. The President of the Republic represents us both in front of the international community and represents us. So not everyone who is and perhaps accidentally elected MP can always become president of the state. That's the first attitude I've proven. The second position I'm proving is that in order to perform such a function in a quality way, we need to have a healthy person. I'll remind you now, I'll be so free, which is health. A lot of people, unfortunately, don't know, and it's not that bad to know. Health isn't just the absence of disease, it's mental, physical and mental well-being. And socially, of course, let's add social well-being. So that's health. I claim that the president should be healthy, especially psychologically and mentally, so that he can respond in quality to this task of hiss. I guess whoever answered it doesn't feel like it's necessary, because it's enough for you to get on the list of any party, maybe by chance, maybe even deserved, and you've already qualified to be president. Now, in a civilized society, when a child goes to school, a parent has to draw medical confidence for a child. Why? In order to protect the child primarily and when the child is mentally and mentally unable to follow what is teaching, it goes to a special school. So wherever there's a mental function, it's also necessary to have confirmation of psychophysical health. For our president, mental function doesn't matter, and he doesn't need a health certificate. Let's move on, if you're looking at a driver's license, if you're driving a vehicle, something that's mechanically learned, of course, you need to have both mental and other judgment, okay, you also need medical assurance. Someone who's employed in the administration, the authority of the administration, I don't know if they can get a job without medical conviction today. Although our law here is so passed a few years ago, it does not explicitly require that we have to have medical confidence in employment, but it says that if there are specific occupations, then it is also necessary to deliver it. Adamovic Vladimir, a psychologist, dealt with celebrities, politicians and artists, and he presented pathographs of those personalities. He looked at them through their illness and well said Hitler had seizures at night, screaming, sleep awakening, panic screaming, and not to deal with Hitler now, we know what came out of Hitler's rule. This author did the same thing to Stalin. Stalin had a disrupted biorhythm, he was awake at night. It's also familiar. The consequences of that are also known. Of course, I'm not gonna say that we're starting to change the biorhythm slowly now and start working at night. Now, a colleague tells me to cut it short. No, I'm not gonna cut short, because I think this is important and how important it is to say what to say. Namely, should he mentally be a stable person of the president of the state? Here's an event from our country. A meeting of the ambassadors, this American, who left a while ago and a vice president of the Serbian government. At one point, the Serbian government's vice president cries, for no particular reason. Is that okay? What happens to opinion and state, we're not talking about that person? The president's mental personality needs to be stable. You don't have to ban mentally unstable people from politics, but if they want to be the highest officials, then they have to be mentally stable. Now, there's a problem here. Someone can tell me: you're now discussing whether public health can be a general problem or public personalities have the right to privacy. You see, in that Western world that you're trying to do, at least you're talking to, there's already a view that a public figure has no right to privacy, especially politicians. Why? They rule the fate of many other people. When it comes to health, that's what I'm talking about. Well, then in America, we know Bush was a heavy alcoholic, and he was treated and he was cured. Then we know about a bunch of other politicians, with their pains and diseases. Now I'm not gonna pick them up here. After all, you have an example of Djindjic. Why Djindjic took ministers to the review in 2000, and why we don't even know what was found there today, and we know that some of them couldn't get some restors precisely because of these findings. If you're watching politicians in the world behave, and in our environment, different, some don't hide their disease, and in our environment. If you're saying that Balkan mentality is something else, it's not. You have, here, this Mr. Tihic, well operated on a man's hip, he says, "I've extended my leg five inches - he's not hiding." Racan was neither hiding his illness nor Jaser Arafat, so in the end, Castro was not hiding his disease and we were informed of the course of Castra's treatment. So it was the opposite example of only Mitteran. He didn't like to talk about his illness, he hid his illness, but it all came out. That's why in the West, politicians race to report on their health. Someone might say, "Well, you're a doctor, what you're saying now can be known about someone else's disease." You know what, that thing is completely clear, we take the Hippocratic oath and it's a professional secret to us. Therefore, if the person in question agrees, who is sick, it is only possible to make such a announcement from the doctor. And what we're proposing, we're just about to regulate the law and we're going the way to make sure that something like that is legal, not only normal, maybe right, but also legal. That's the legal part. A while ago, the DSS proposed to the president that we start controlling drugs, taking our urine and controlling us. This is what the DSS's rejuvenation proposed. In Italy recently, 50 were controlled, 12 were positive for marijuana, four for cocaine. In Germany in 2000, the affair found drugs in the urine. It's not pointless. There may be reasons why in the West and Australia, why citizens in England began to sign a petition, that both their MPs and officials were being tested for narcotics. To finish, time goes by, I'm just saying, what do you think if in the next election this amendment were to be adopted and we see these candidates who are already on the lookout, who will appear in the elections, so one with this history of VMA disease due to continued treatment, one again, don't God if someone asks him for a drug test, and then what's left of the Serbian people? It remains only logical and correct folk thinking, since you will not adopt this, to vote for a mentally, physically, mentally normal man, and I don't know about others, but I certainly know that this person is absolutely Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12488	Mr. Momchilovich, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12489	Mr. Chairman, I'll only say one sentence. Here, you see, I'm done, it's been two or three seconds, there's one folk proverb and take it into your mind, "Learn to keep your mouth shut so you know you're talking."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12490	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11(4) requesting that item 4 be deleted. I'll read the explanation a little later. For the sake of the public, I have to read the reasons why I asked for Section 4 to be deleted. Therefore, Article 11(4) states: "The court must only approve the voters' signatures in the agreement on the establishment of a group of citizens and the signatures of voters who support the candidate's proposal." In my explanation, I have stated that these provisions are already in Article 9(2) and Article 10(1), and I will read that for the public. So, "A group of citizens by written agreement shall establish at least ten voters whose signatures must be certified by the court and it shall not have a name." Article 10(1) states: "The candidate's proposal can only be submitted if he is supported by at least 10,000 voters by his signatures certified by the court," or 50,000 voters, if the amendment of counterpart Martinovic is adopted. So, Mr. Minister, I have to tell you that the explanation that we have received from the Government is more than ridiculous, more than uncultural, and we understand that the arguments that you have provided for us to consider the amendment to the bill on the President is what they are due to the speed of their writing, but since this is the second point of the agenda and that there has been enough time for the Government to consider all amendments well, we could have received a safe and better answer. It's said in an explanation like this: "Amendment is not accepted. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council The bill is intended to indicate again in one place which all statements must be certified by the court and thereby, indirectly, indicates which statements do not have to be certified by the court (for example, a written statement by the candidates to accept the president's candidacy... '". Which, Mr. Minister, is the president or candidate for president of this country, who doesn't know that his statement shouldn't be certified in court? Once again, I get confirmation that the law is written for Boris Tadic, because it is obvious that these things are still not clear to him or his team that helps him work. It is evident that this law is designed to elect a president of a household, where twice when you repeat the same thing, you make it clear to this candidate what a third thing should not do. That's why I said this explanation was more than funny. I don't think all candidates for the president of this country are on the same IQ, that as certain candidates understand what's written here without this attitude. I think, then, if you wanted to make it clear to everyone, you should have written an additional article saying, "You don't need to verify at the court that you accept the candidacy." Because of all this, Mr. Minister, you know for yourself that Article 11, Section 3, writes enough what one candidate needs to endure and that you have, in reason, made a contradiction of what it says already in Article 11, which is that you need to repeat something again. It already says here in Article 11: "A written statement from the candidate to accept the candidacy for the President of the Republic". You could have put the "untrusted at the court" in brackets, or you could have repeated this attitude one more time to make it much easier for a candidate. Because of this, this explanation offends every intelligence, and that is why we have proposed an amendment because we do not want to get back into unresolved situations as we have come to the proposal for a law on the President, where we do not know what household is, how many members there are, that we do not know what is written, and what is a written statement, etc. Those things aren't good. We're trying to amend this law as much as we can, to simplify it, to make it as applicable. Of course, you must bear in mind the fact that the president of Serbia must be an SRS candidate in the coming period and that we have not done this out of any political prejudice, but because of the law's entry into force for the next periods for all candidates and for all the presidential elections to take place. I must return briefly to Article 10, where counterpart Martinovic asked for 50,000 signatures to be collected instead of 10,000 signatures. I got an association to do that for Mr. Rajko Baralic's exposure. Rajko Baralic said it is dangerous for Serbia for these or those reasons. Rajko Baralic is a member of the SPS and forgets that when the presidential elections or any other election are at stake, everyone on the one hand and the rest on the other side, only the SRS, and that it is not a problem for all parties on the one side to collect 50,000 signatures, especially for national minorities who drown and in the second round give their votes to the first party or so on. a democratic bloc. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, to simplify this law, that this attitude, which absolutely no longer makes sense because it's mentioned in points 9 and 10, we don't repeat it without any meaning because we don't have to repeat three times something to make someone understand what the fourth thing is, more precisely what the fourth thing doesn't have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12492	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12493	I'm not going to engage, I think it's a fully reasoned amendment, just to say to the motionary representative, Minister Markovic, that this is not exactly in Article 11(4) that only two types of signatures must be certified by the court. Namely, the court must have the signatures and those groups of 10 citizens who are breaking up the agreement on a common candidate. And that's when you talk about listing that there's always a danger of not counting everything. So it's not just these two types of signatures at the court. There is another type of signature that is certified by the court, and when you list everything that has to be certified, then you have to sign a third kind of signature: when a group of 10 citizens is breaking their support contract to a candidate, those who step out of it, they also have to verify their signatures on the inauguration at the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12494	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Slavko Jerkovic proposed to be in Article 12. The draft election law for the President of the Republic deletes the word "public". In fact, Article 12 reads as follows: "All the forms necessary for the submission of the candidate's proposal are prescribed by the Republic Election Commission in a special act, printing them and making them available to the public within three days of the election day." The Republic Election Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a kind of state body. All state authorities have an obligation to publish their acts in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I really don't understand how the Republic Election Commission can understand, once the act on election forms for the President of the Republic is published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", can make those forms available to the public. I don't know how the Republic Election Commission can make these forms available to the public via television, or via radio, or through printed media, through newspapers. So, I don't know what the government was going to say to this formulation. Instead, Mr. Minister, I think the next solution is much higher - that all the forms necessary for the conduct of the elections are naturally determined by the Republic Election Commission, that the Republic Election Commission publish those forms in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that only afterwards, of course, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a public undertaking, presses and forms, and that they can be sold freely. As you wrote in the bill, it turns out that the forms of the Republic Election Commission do not have to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but that only the Republic Election Commission printed them and, as you say, made them available to the public, and you forgot that key segment, which is that these acts must be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Now, that's probably not an accident. You seem to have been caught by an epidemic that acts brought by state authorities are kept secret. This is already, if I'm not mistaken, the third draft law trying to hide something from Serbian citizens. To remind you that in the Bill on Government which you have voted here, that is, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Government Act, you have provided for only some acts, general and individual, which the Government is obliged to publish in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but that there are other categories of acts, which can be published if the Government will, and if not, they will remain a secret for the citizens. The second law here was passed by the Constitutional Court Act. You also predicted that some important acts of the Constitutional Court were not published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and above all a decision on the constitutional appeal. We have shown you that the decision on constitutional appeal is an extremely important decision, it decides on extremely important human rights and freedoms, in times when citizens no longer have some other legal mechanism to protect their rights. You refused, but you wrote that the Constitutional Court can decide, if he wishes, that certain decisions are announced by constitutional complaints in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Now, this is the third law, the law on the election of the President of the Republic, where you say that the Republic Election Commission puts election forms at the disposal of the public, and you did not provide for these forms to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". And it's even unclear to me how you think a written act is made available to the public through the media, because the media seems to be the only means to make something available to the public. Now, let's not get into that dysfunctional sociological concept is public. You probably wanted to say - the people, or those who are interested in the elections, who have their candidates and who want to vote in those elections, but the only way the Republic Election Commission can communicate with the citizens of Serbia, is to publish its acts in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Everything else can't be legally valid, it can't have legal power. So the possibility is that the Republic Election Commission can publish acts in the media, newspapers, on television, on the radio, etc. The only legal way is for all acts, both the Republic Election Commission and all other state bodies, to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Everything else is the return of Serbia to the Middle Ages, when the state authorities did what they wanted, and that citizens had no idea about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12496	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12497	Thank you very much, Mr. Albianic. Article 13. The bill refers to the withdrawal of the candidate's proposal and the withdrawal of the candidacy. "The applicant can withdraw the candidate's proposal until the day of setting out the list of candidates for the election of the President of the Republic" – that, of course, is not controversial. But the question is this: "If the candidate has proposed a coalition of political parties, the proposal was withdrawn when the last political party in the coalition withdraws the proposal in writing, if the coalition contract is not different". Our opinion is that this position is unsustainable in Article 13 and that this is not a good solution. Our proposal is: "If the candidate has proposed a coalition of political parties, the proposal has been withdrawn when one of the participants in the coalition has writtenly informed the Republic Election Commission that he is withdrawing the candidate's proposal." It's really incomprehensible why the government didn't accept this amendment, because when I saw an attitude like this, I saw it as a mistake by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I couldn't believe it was possible that you really thought that this solution could remain. Even with the government's explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, you say, "The set of wills created by the coalitions should also be thrown out. All the political parties together have created a coalition, so together they should also dispel it by withdrawing the candidacy. ''''' ''We'', you say, ''and the bill's proposal gives priority to the way in which the withdrawal of the bid is arranged in a coalition contract; only if the issue of withdrawal of the candidacy is not regulated in the coalition contract is applied is a dissuasive provision (by which the proposal is withdrawn when and the last political party in the coalition withdraws the proposal in writing). '" Mr. Minister, this is really completely out of the logic and out of the sound mind. The coalition of three, four or five parties is being formed, as usual, a formal agreement is being made to support one candidate and in the meantime one of the parties, only one, realizes that he no longer wants to support the candidate. What do you mean by this law and by the way regulated by the other Article 13. A bill to commit or to force one of the former coalition partners to comply with this provision? This is unacceptable and our amendment is much clearer because it provides, and that is how it is explained, that even if only one of the political parties, the coalitions of the political parties proposed by the candidate, has writtenly informed them that they are withdrawing the proposal, that they are also withdrawing the candidacy. It's the only logical thing that's really possible. This solution, standing further in our explanation, is better than the one proposed in the bill because it is clearer, simpler and disciplined by all adventurers in politics and does not confuse voters. If coalition partners can't agree, why would their fight burden voters? - that's our question. And whoever can't agree doesn't have to participate in the election. You show up with one candidate, supported by three or four political parties, meanwhile one party says - I will no longer support that candidate, you legally oblige him to continue to support him, a representative of the party appears in the media and says - I do not think I support Boris Tadic anymore, was a mistake when we made an agreement to support Boris Tadic. Will the DSS support Velija Ilic or Boris Tadic? Maybe they'll make a deal with each other. With you to be held a little longer in the government, and with these because at this second level, the Republic is already in the coalition. Now what will their voters and their sympathisers do, who are they going to decide on, who is it they're supposed to vote for? And in the meantime, the DSS changes its mind, goes public and says we will not support Boris Tadic or Velimir Ilic, we have no one, we have no one, we have no one and we will not support anyone. Then how are you going to get someone to support that candidacy by law, if she says loud and clear she doesn't want to be supported? This is really unacceptable and I think it is necessary that you accept this amendment, because you cannot impose on someone by law his political will and his political decision. Everyone has the right to team up, but also to part. If four or five parties have joined together to support one candidate and if one party no longer wants to participate, you are pushing the party until everyone else has changed their minds and says it will not support the candidate. It just doesn't make sense and it's unsustainable. So, Minister, I think it would be a good idea to finally get involved in this work, at least in this law, since you are absolutely not in the previous one, and that if you are unable to accept these amendments, or if you do not have the authority of Mr. Balinovec to touch his law, then say nicely: I am withdrawing this law - and agree nicely if possible in the common government, because this is obviously the law of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and you are the Minister of Government Bozidar Djelic, so make a nice deal there and suggest a serious law. You know, we've been waiting for this law for six or seven months, you've been so late under the Constitution and the Constitution law, and we've really expected, if you've been doing the bill for so long, we'll get a law on which we won't have any objections. And you're proposing this kind of nebulosis into the law. I mean, really, that every citizen who listens to this now has nothing to do with politics is clear that what you've suggested is really out of common sense. I repeat, Minister, can someone force you by law that you must support a candidate? If you said so at one point, and signed, in the meantime, you changed your mind, who can make you vote for Boris Tadic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12498	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13(5), because I believe that it is well-intentioned, undeniable and does not disturb any concept of Article 13 of this Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. The withdrawal of the candidate's proposal and the withdrawal of the candidacy, Article 13 paragraph 5: ''Departing from the candidacy shall be declared in writing, and the candidate's signature shall be certified by the court. '"This is deleted. The right of every candidate for president of the state is for the court to verify the candidacy, and his right to give up is only his will. Minister, you should hear this. Further, the court has nothing to confirm his signature, and the very act of abandoning the candidacy can only be determined, and his resignation can be discussed by the party, and he doesn't have to. With the accompanying documents attached to the presidential candidate, all documentation of the medical board for his physical and mental condition is required. Of course, for the candidacy, as we could hear from the MPs of the SRS, it is necessary to collect 50,000 signatures, as a serious candidate is needed for such an important state function. Only great ones can enter such an important game, and that provision does not diminish the rights of national minorities, nor do I want to, because they themselves are aware of the fact that the game of great importance for the state is played by the strongest and greatest. If we pass these laws for compliance with the new Constitution, then it is also the obligation of the President of the State to be in accordance with Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and swears. I quote Article 114, as the President of the Republic has not sworn himself and this Constitution, and therefore I believe that after these elections, Tomislav Nikolic will do so: "I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and the whole of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as its constituent part, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will securely and responsibly fulfil all my duties." A very important item is the security of the central voter's list, as the SRS has been demanding for many years that voter lists be placed in a valid state. In this context, I believe that this is not a technical issue, but rather a lack of political will by the authorities, which is the least problematic because the presidential elections, in addition to parliamentary elections, are the most important ones in a modernly regulated rule of law. If we are unable to provide a valid voter list for these most important elections, then what kind of message and example are we sending to local self-government? I believe that if the citizens directly elect the president, then they too should participate in its resolution. In this context, I note the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the bill, which is similar to that of Article 13(5). The same principle to apply in all parts of the matter, which covers the draft bill on elections for the president. In the end, I express my confidence that the election for the president will end in the first round, because we will not need the second round, because for all of us, including the citizens of Serbia, it is clear that it is a circle of political trade, political blackmail and the like. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment to Article 13(5), it is said: "The amendment is not accepted. The bill provides for a written form followed by an over-signing of candidates at the court for the importance of the withdrawal action. The withdrawal of the candidacy has more consequences than acceptance of the candidacy." Given that I have received such an explanation, I would like to ask the motionary, Mr. Minister, who is not here, to indicate at least one consequence of the withdrawal of the candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12500	Do any of the MPs report for the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12501	It is truly incomprehensible why it is proposed in this law that the withdrawal from candidacy must be stated in writing – here it says in writing, the question of how written it is – means in writing and that's okay. But if the candidate's signature had to be cleared at the court, it really doesn't make any sense. Why do you say the bill provides for a written form followed by a court order because of the importance of the withdrawal action? A colleague of Despotovic explained in detail, but there really is no sound solution and confidence that would convince us that if someone is running for President of the Republic and only sign and surrenders his candidacy, along with the rest of the documentation to the RIK, and does not approve that candidacy, if he changes his mind until the deadline laid down by law, why would he have to verify his application at the court? You think someone's gonna fake it? You should've said the graphologist was controlling those signatures. It was supposed to stand and it could be said that the candidate who withdraws the candidacy should be in front of the RIK to sign a statement on the withdrawal of the candidacy. That would be something that would be normal and that could be accepted, but that confirms the withdrawal of the candidacy, and you're still telling us that the greater consequences when he gives up his candidacy than when he's running for office, that's not true. Do you know how one person can run, which is the procedure, from the party's first procedure, to all the documentation, to the collection of signatures, to the confirmation of these signatures, to the payment of those orders, to the final submission of the RIK? With all this goes the election campaign, the animation of citizens, etc. Now it's less and less important than anyone in this period, which the law allows, suddenly says: I don't want to be a candidate anymore for some reason. First, it is not expected, nor is it logical that this can be expected from some serious candidate, from representatives of some serious political party. I'm not saying that it can't happen in practice, but it can happen with one of these that you, in every election, you in power set up to run, to provide them with signatures, etc. And then people at some point realize that they're just a toy in someone's hands and they're sold for a small pair, and then they say, "I'm a man of honor, I'm not going to participate in this, I'm not going to be a candidate anymore, I'm going to do it in front of the RIK, and that's the end of the story." So, you have neither convinced us by this written explanation nor by the minister of any letter on the subject has spoken to convince us, nor by representatives of the congregation's majority, of you as many as there are. Here's again information for Serbian citizens that no DSS and G17 representatives are currently in the O.R. Mr. Albianic has long since eliminated Ivana Dulic-Markovic, he is here as vice president. You're doing a good job, Mr. Albianic. I know you feel less and less like a member of G17 plus. I remember a time from two, three, four years ago, when I mention here that Mladjan Dinkic is a criminal, you were jumping here, you wanted to beat up as much Wolf as you are, and now that I say Dinkic is a criminal, a thief, he robbed this or that... Madam Radeta, please don't do this. )......................................................................................................... You ask nicely, just because you have to, because Ivana Dulic-Markovic is watching you, otherwise you wouldn't react like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12502	Is there anyone else reporting for the amendment of MP Zoran Despotovic? No, I don't. ) National MP Milisav Petronijevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 15a be added after article 15. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12503	I'd like to start this amendment in a different way than my colleague, the Witch of Radeta, said. I'm not going to say who it is, but I'll tell you who it is, because it would be interesting for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hear who is in the National Assembly Hall when we discuss the law on the president. Apparently those parties who are interested in selecting the President of the Republic and who are interested in the whole business of the election of the President of the Republic being passed in the best possible way. These are, indisputably, colleagues from the SRS, colleagues from the DS and, of course, we from the SPS. I came out to explain, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the amendment of my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, to Article 15. Col. Petronijevic proposed his amendment to extend Article 15 by adding, in addition to the existing formulation, the position "If the candidate's personal name is circled on the ballot or a regular number and the candidate's personal name is rounded up at the same time, such a ballot will be considered valid". We of the SPS consider the amendment to specify that the valid ballot is also considered a ballot on which only the name, i.e. the name and the regular number of candidates are clearly rounded up. The draft law does not specify this possibility, and in the electoral process, that is, in the process of determining the result of the elections, the solution given by the legislator may be interpreted on an arbitrary basis. We believe that the amendment eliminates such an option. Let me read the government's response to this amendment, Comrade Milisav Petronijevic. The government's statement reads, "Amendment is not accepted. It is enough to specify what an invalid ballot is, so that at the same time the term (means we should discover) of the valid ballot is revealed. They cannot be compared to the fact that there is also a definition of a valid and the definition of an invalid ballot, since there is always a case of validity or invalidity of a ballot which is not covered by those double definitions. For example, the amendment does not answer the question whether the valid ballot is the only one rounding the name of the applicant, or whether the name of the applicant and the personal name of the candidate is rounded up or the regular number and name of the promoter, etc. These are all cases of practices where the ballot is considered valid and not listed in the amendment." This reasoning by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is better than any argument that could be expressed in favour of this amendment, in fact talking about the need for the amendment to be accepted. No offense, fellow MPs, I don't think it's the task of the election board to determine the results of the election at a particular polling post, to reveal the truth, to reveal the notion of a valid ballot, that practice shows which ballot is valid or not valid. I think my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic and the SPS, are absolutely right and right to make that claim, is also a member of the 17th draft law that tells me what is considered an invalid ballot. The invalid ballot is a ballot that is not filled or a ballot that is so filled that it cannot be determined reliably which candidate the voter voted for. The point is that the valid ballot is the ballot from which it can absolutely be determined reliably for whom someone voted. Excuse me, fellow MPs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who may be watching this transfer, the amendment of counterpart Milisav Petronijevic, has the same meaning that he can absolutely determine who he voted for. If someone circles the regular number in front of the candidate's name and last name, or round the name and last name of the candidate or both, it's proof that you can absolutely determine who he's voting for. Under the law, only one candidate is voted by rounding up the regular number in front of names and last names. Round up the regular number and then the ballot is considered valid. Everything else is invalid. If, as the legislator says, in practice, that someone rounds both the name and the name of the candidate, or the regular number and the name of the candidate, then the electoral committee will say, sorry, the law does not foresee that, although rounding and regular numbers of the name and last name of the candidate can absolutely determine the electoral will of the citizens, then the promoter can say, sorry, in Article 15(2), only a regular number before the candidate's name and cannot be accepted. On behalf of the SPS, I also point out that we think this is a serious problem and that this amendment would absolutely need to be accepted. We can't figure out the promoter refuses such a meaningful amendment, unless it refuses for the reason the opposition suggested it. In a situation where fewer and fewer citizens of the Republic of Serbia go to the polls, although in 2003, by amending the Law on Elections of the President, we abolished the one for many of the huge conditions of the elections, that it must vote 50 plus 1 per cent of the voters enrolled, the fact is that in response to the current economic and political situation in Serbia, what it does is. democratic power in these years after 2000, less and less people go to the polls. We thus create conditions that, and this direct expression of citizens, and the directly expressed will can be disaved. The problem isn't as small and as banal as it might be. We have in practice a different situation, that unfortunately not all parties can be represented on election committees, although the law says it differently. Believe me, in these past few years, we've made sure that the law has its own meaning in the process, but in practice and in the field, something completely different is happening. No matter what the valid ballot will be and what an invalid ballot will be. Put yourself in the skin of any candidate, where the election board will say that the ballot is not valid. I'm also saying from the point of view of the fact that Serbia's electoral body, that there are a lot of older people, that there are a lot of people with a certain degree of education. Take the situation to register seven-eight candidates, which is realistic, because there will be both parties and individuals who will participate in the election for the President of the Republic. Is it possible that each of the people who participate in the elections, and I say the structure of the Serbian electoral body, is that they are dominant in the electoral body mostly old people, whether they will, just as they say surgically precisely, be able to round only a regular number in front of the candidates' names, as a necessary condition under this law so that the ballot can be accepted. If the essence of the vote is that it is reliable to determine who one of the citizens voted for, then it is quite logical to accept this amendment by rounding both the regular number and the names and last names of the candidates, so the election will can absolutely be determined. We don't need to create any legal conditions for arbitrary interpretation, because I say once again, there are different situations. There may be a huge number of ballots, where it is undeniable that the voter's will has been expressed in favour of one candidate, that the electoral committee which is in different terms is to declare it invalid. I'm not saying this by accident. We socialists have had a very bad experience. For example, when there was a referendum on the mayor of Gornji Milanovac, since all parties were on one side, and he, on the other, believed or not, did not have a representative on election committees when the referendum was conducted. Not even the ministry's recommendation that the logical SPS should have its representative on election committees was respected, thus creating a formal legal basis for volunteering of an unprecedented level. We had a situation, an example, when there was a referendum in the Frogs, where an objectively small number of votes decided on the fate of the president of the municipality, who was otherwise a socialist and who, thank God, endured the pressure of the citizens' statements and the citizens generally pleaded against his replacement. The point was that the election committees and the election commission of the municipality declared a huge number of ballots invalid, and then they pulled out the invalid ballots and did not count them in the number of total ballots. I mention this, respected colleagues, because some other members of this law say that the number of voters voted is determined on the basis of the number of ballots. It's not valid and invalid, it's said ballots that are in the box, and then it's going to be sorted into one or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12504	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should have talked about some other subject, see who's following and who's not following. Those who don't find it interesting, feel free to come out, there are few of us, who are not listened to, free; Mr. Milivoevich, you have no obligation to be here. You should, since you have a president and candidate for the election. I suppose you're interested. The future president will be elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and as Mr Tadic does, unfortunately, the issue of the future president is very debateable. I'm fully convinced that he's not going to be president, but that's your problem. Tonight’s meeting of the National Assembly shows what support it will have on the ground. Notice which of the coalition is here to support this law on the election of the president. Now, if this is an indication of what support will look like in the field, it's black-written. So seriously think about what's going on tonight because it's an indicator of what's going to happen. If Mr. Albianić is one on behalf of the others, with all due respect to Mr. Albianić, it is thin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12506	That's not right, Mr. Beard, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12507	I said from the point of view, quantity. Maybe the quality exists, but the quantity is minor. Since elections for the President of the Republic will not make quality decisions but quantity, it is very important that you pay attention to this amendment, because you may be scratching your head tomorrow and saying: we should have accepted the Socialist amendment because it gives the opportunity to clearly establish the voter's will of citizens. Mr. Petronijevic didn't accidentally propose this amendment. We want to avoid the various negative phenomena that have occurred in the past – that the electoral board will be the one who appreciates the situation, be the source of practice and the source of interpretation of the law. It's better to write what's valid, what's invalid, because here's the point that you can absolutely determine what the voting will is. We think that this amendment is extremely good, that accepting it would be only help to the promoter, in this case to the Serbian government, and citizens who will participate in the elections for the President of the Republic, since we will obviously have elections in January, that the possibility of there being no marifetteluks, no bad things, no many invalid ballots, no counterfeiting voter will of citizens, that simple rights...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12508	Please, let's listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12509	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. We believe that this amendment is good, because it is fundamentally legal that the election can be directly determined by the electoral will. This amendment may not make sense to you. We think that they will, both in the first and second circles, but when it comes to a very specific situation, then it is also how important the formulation of a solution in a law that provides the basis for the absolute accuracy of the voter's will. We think that the amendment of counterpart Milisava Petronivic is submitted on behalf of the SPS, where he asks that rounding and regular numbers, and names and last names, or both, be accepted, because that is proof that the man voted for the candidate and that is his election will. And, of course, let the one most citizens vote for win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12510	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12511	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will speak simultaneously of the amendment to Article 15 and of the amendment to my 16th colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, and I will say in the beginning that these are good amendments and that they should be accepted. I will remind RIK that it brings instructions for the election committee's work, each time for each election again. Mostly these instructions are written and copied once, and nothing is disputed. Of course, they comply with the laws if there have been any changes in the election laws, but I think amendments to both Article 15 and Article 16 should be accepted. After all, this solution, as is now foreseen by the amendment of counterpart Milisav Petronivic, was your solution, gentlemen of the DOS, because in the previous Law on the election of the president, Article 5, it was regulated what is valid, what is an invalid ballot, so you in Amendments and Supplements in Article 5ð predicted exactly what you have now deleted. It's really particularly symptomatic why you're now erasing something that you suggested and adopted a few years ago. And what do these arguments mean to you, first of all, to explain why you do not accept the amendment to Article 15? I would just like to add to what my colleague said, that "if the candidate's personal name is rounded on the ballot, or at the same time a regular number and the candidate's personal name is rounded up, such a ballot will be considered invalid." It could even stand here and it wouldn't be too high that 'or the ballot is filled so that it can be unequivocally determined which candidate the voter voted for'. And it could stand, it wouldn't be too high. It's not a good explanation. You're saying I can't compare to the same law that there's also a definition of a valid and a definition of an invalid ballot. I really don't understand what you mean by that. It can stand. On the condition that it is identical, that it is written exactly what is valid and what is invalid, then of course it can stand in the law. You're particularly unwell at this reasoning on article 16, where you suggested... because, in Article 15, you say, 'Apart from the indication that the vote for the President of the Republic, the voter's ballot for the election of the President of the Republic contains: 1) the regular number of candidates set out on the candidate list... 2) an explanation to vote for only one candidate by rounding up the regular number in front of the name and last name of the candidate.' So, it would be perfectly okay to accept the amendment of counterpart Petronijevic. It wouldn't be a burdensome norm, it would just be clearer what is meant by a valid ballot. Article 16 of the bill states: "The invalid ballot is a ballot that is not filled or a ballot that is so filled that it cannot be reliably determined which candidate the voter voted for." Col. Petronijevic says, "The invalid ballot is considered an unfulfilled ballot, a ballot filled so that it cannot be determined with certainty which candidate was voted for, a ballot that surrounds more than one candidate, as well as a ballot on which the name of the new candidate is written." Now, you see, if there is a wise argument, in the second position, why is the amendment not accepted: 'In addition, the amendment does not cover all cases where the ballot is invalid. 'Well, it's only in your proposal that they're not covered. So how do you explain it, what did you suggest in article 16, what did the government suggest as an invalid ballot? It's a complete general provision. And that provision is also contained in the amendment of counterpart Petronijevic, except by his amendment it is still extended. So, I suggest voting for this amendment, because nothing can spoil it, it can also clarify RIK when it is given instructions for the work of the electoral committees, it can also be made clear to the election board members themselves. You well know what is happening in the polling post, how they try to present invalid ballots that do not match the members of the electoral committee who participate in the voter's voter count, and therefore, I repeat again, the law should all be so precise that it does not leave much to think about the RIK, and especially not to the election committees. When a ballot is counted, a ballot is important. I think you should all take care of it, because those who will eventually not have a candidate in these presidential elections will probably have it in some next one, so then they will care about what is valid and what is an invalid ballot. We understand that whoever wrote this bill, and we've found several times that part of the government of the Republic of Serbia wrote it, that they don't care very much if these provisions are clear, because they say in advance they won't go to elections, they won't have a candidate and they don't care if Toma Nikolic beat Boris Tadic by five or six percent. It's very important to us, we're convinced it's going to be a higher percentage.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12512	The amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12513	Dear fellow MPs, it's not very pleasant this vampire custom, but what to do. Mr. Misa Petronijevic, our fellow MP, has proposed a set of amendments concerning the precision of the way in which the voter will be determined. Here, just to try to get your attention, I will comment on what they are attending this session, excluding the quality of G17 decorated in Mr Albianić, but not the quantity, MPs DS, SRS and SPS. Unlike my colleague Obradovic, who is suspected of supporting the DSS, G17 and the future candidate of the democratic option for the president, I doubt that the election campaign has actually begun. I think the gentlemen who are here tonight are, in fact, out in the field. They're probably doing something behind somebody's back and, my God, they're working with the electoral body. Of course, Mr Petronijevic here proposes to amend Article 16. I'm going to read it for the public because we're doing this for the viewers. Not everyone looks at citizens, I don't think it's pleasant for everyone to see this congregation. Article 16 says: "The invalid ballot is a ballot that is not filled or a ballot that is so filled that it cannot be reliably determined which candidate the voter voted for. ''Mr Petronijevic suggests that an invalid ballot is considered an unfulfilled ballot, a ballot that is filled so that it cannot be determined with certainty which candidate was voted for, a ballot on which more than one candidate was circled, as well as a ballot bearing the name of the new candidate. Since what you have already read has not been interesting, I suggest you pay attention to why this is important. Since you are in agreement, therefore, with the DS and the SRS, that the future elections for the president to be full of legitimacy and in agreement that, in your agreement, and that is how we will see it, the political Serb scene of the election of Tome Nikolic or Boris Tadic, I will not vote for any, therefore, what could be the problem here? I'll vote for the SPS candidate. Why is this interesting? One thing is your ideas, and another thing is what those who opted for these elections to come out. It's a nice deal, but life can make a little bit of a mess. What can be disputed here? It can be disputed, if the result is narrow, and then someone comes to mind, either this authority or any future one, that, for example, by canceling the results at some polling stations and, possibly, if the difference is small in the second round, they correct the result of their candidate. It can do both position and opposition. You forget, gentlemen, that in local self-government there is a very colorful power, practically all with everyone, more or less, and perhaps in agreement with everyone, and perhaps it has been proven that in Serbia with money, there is much that can be done. In that sense, I would not like the future president to be elected in the shadow of suspicion, such as Kostunica's score in the event of a victory over Slobodan Milosevic, because we have never proven that he has 50%. If Slobodan Milosevic admitted that victory, I do not dispute it, I'm just saying that there was a shadow of whether it was 50%, and I'll remind the DS gentlemen that they, too, in their clash with their coalition partner, questioned it in time. I'm going back to this second possibility, which I find interesting, that because of the close result, let's say, someone starts canceling out at the polls. Some local self-government can do it for money, some can do it for one reason or another. Then it would be the end of the electoral will of citizens, and therefore it is very important and 15a - what is valid, in which way the electoral board will determine the full will, or the real will of whoever has circled, and here I agree that it must not be just a number, but a clearly rounded name or both. On the other hand, because of the practice, because the legislator is explaining why this does not accept calls in some members and in practice that the electoral committee has the right to determine what was valid and what was not, excuse me, please, it is necessary to narrow down the space for such a thing. We don't have to love each other, but the clearer the rules of the game, the uglier the past, it doesn't matter who produced it, with the polling stations, with the way the voters vote and determine the will of the voters, so the possibilities for manipulation will be less. That is why in the SPS, because of the instability of the Serbian political scene, because of the possibility of manipulation in the clash between the government and the opposition, because of the pressure the West will exert, as it once did with Gonzales, pressured me on those '96 elections. For years, so there will be some new Gonzales, perhaps, to determine here whether an opposition candidate has been elected. Just to do it quickly, as painlessly as possible, you're right, Mr. Milivoevich. So it's important to specify what an invalid ballot is. In that sense, the amendments submitted by our colleague Misa Petronijevic, a member of the SPS parliamentary group, are very meaningful. In some normal democratic country, in some normal system, where your constitutional court normally works, where relationships aren't severed, where we won't fight in a polling station, where we won't steal election boxes, right? And whatever's already happened, this amendment might not have full capacity because it's relatively flexible and we're not going to fail because of five votes. But I'll remind you that in the election of some of the favorite Mr. George Bush here, there was also some awkwardness with some vote, in that electronic vote. Imagine if there was an electronic vote in Serbia – what a circus it would be. And I wish we had an electronic vote, because for me, that would be a sign of our country's progress. Here would actually be a new possibility of manipulation and influence on the electoral body. But I don't want to be any further malice, I want to really call, in this case, first of all, the ruling coalition, since the gentlemen of the SRS have already supported us, to accept these amendments, in essence of the SPS, with a basic message that they simply narrow down the possibility of manipulation, and I think that narrowing down the possibilities of manipulation to all of us if we truly advocate a good democratic norm. In addition, relations to the Serbian political scene have been well Pacificed. When I say pacify, I mean those efforts, you know -- October 5th, we didn't kill and arrest enough, it would be convenient to be on October 6th, it doesn't matter what year, so for that October 6th, we arrest, we kill, we lustrate, we mustrate or whatever, what a pity it is here for that 6th of October. Why is that good? It is good to finally start to deal with democracy rather than with a sharp political struggle, it is good to finally start dealing with the interests of citizens and not with the way we maintain power. When I talk about how we maintain power, what do I mean? We've begun to adapt legal projects, say the Law on Local Self-Government or some other election, so we're going to end maybe election units or some other things to defend our authority. You know what? Mr. Milivoevich, yes, we did, but what we did doesn't mean that you should work and work. Because we may have done so in some things, and above all, we haven't paid enough attention to what you do, so kind and honest, maybe that's why we fell out of power. It is a democratic norm, and it is Christian, that you should not call upon one's faults, so that you may repeat them, multiply them, and increase them; and why? - for survival in power. Then don't tell us about democracy, talk about despotism, talk about tyranny, talk about dictatorship... I know they said they wouldn't, but I'm talking about practice. One thing is a verbal plot, and the other is that you love the government so much that you'd rather leave a woman, a horse and a pen than a government. You used to say that. I think these two amendments, no matter how much they act Benignly, allow for an increase in the level of mutual trust between the government and the opposition, the mutual trust of the party, and narrow down the space for manipulation. If we want to build our relationships on other things and increase our level of concern for the problems of an ordinary citizen, one who is without a job, who is hungry, from a pensioner who cannot live, then this speaker will be more talked about the life-saving things that our citizens are suffering, instead of talking about our mutual relations, our mistrust and actually show how much political elite in Serbia is today, or the good part of it, in fact, bad, and uninterested, so that the political scene is clear, and that citizens live better. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for putting up with me for 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12514	Thank you. Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12515	I did not understand at the start of Mr. Bajatovic's presentation, first of all, whether they, the SPS, made an alliance with the DSS to boycott the election, since you, a colleague of Bajatovic, accused us of making some agreement with the DS to go to the elections. You have to mind what you think and from this place what you say. I'm very concerned, Mr. Bayatovic. There is no agreement and no agreement between the DS and the SRS. The SRS never ran away from the election, never boycotted the election. Since 2000, we have never supported anyone or been in power. Therefore, you have no basis to accuse us, because for months we have insisted we continue to insist that all the necessary laws be passed in order to obtain conditions under the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution to conduct elections. When these laws are passed, when the elections are called, our party bodies, which is the Central Country Authority, will determine who is the candidate of the SRS, first whether we will go out, and then who is the candidate in the presidential elections. I can now tell you that I am convinced that the Central Ministry will decide that the SRS will go to the presidential elections, that our presidential candidate will be Tomislav Nikolic, that we are convinced that Tomislav Nikolic will be president of the Republic of Serbia and that is why we care very much for these laws to be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12516	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12517	Our colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, has submitted an amendment to Article 17 of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which suggests adding a new position 3 in Article 17 following Article 2 of Article 2 which reads: 'At the time between opening and closing of polling stations, the Republic Election Commission shall publish information on the course of the elections it receives from the republican organisation responsible for the affairs of statistics, i.e. from other election bodies. ''We believe in the SPS that this amendment complements Article 17. The bill sets out the obligation of the RIK to publish information on the course of the election in the election day, i.e. between the opening and closing of the polling stations, provided by the Republic Bureau of Statistics and other electoral bodies, election committees and municipal electoral commissions. The bill promoter, the Government, gave a negative answer on this amendment. I will also read the negative answer to this amendment. In fact, the government does not accept the amendment because it believes that ''direct the important issue that needs to be regulated by a law governing the choice of MPs. Until it is settled, elections for the President of the Republic will be subject to a law regulating the election of MPs. Likewise, when the issue is settled, elections for the President of the Republic will be subject to a law regulating the choice of MPs. '"So, both in one and the other, and when it's not settled, and when it's settled. ''If an amendment were accepted, possibly a different arrangement for the publication of election data on the day of the vote in the law governing the election of MPs from the one proposed by this amendment, it would impose an amendment to the Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. 'I'm sorry, but this is an inconclusive explanation, because this is a law on the election of the President of the Republic. The government says it cannot accept this because it would mean changing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. Well, we are now discussing the law on the election of the President of the Republic and the Government to us socialists and Mr. Petronivic says that it cannot because it would mean amending this law. There's no change in any law that's not in the process. We're just talking about a law that settles this issue. The government, for who knows which time, made a mistake. I think this, what Mr. Petronijevic suggested on behalf of the SPS, is very meaningful. I think one of the evidence is that this is also the fact that this solution that Mr. Petronijevic proposed is contained in the part of the law that was valid and is valid until this one is adopted. It's that RIK needs to get data and reports from an organisation responsible for statistics affairs. Why am I saying this? If the government really wants to pass a law that will fully regulate all issues of the election of the President of the Republic and if such a legal basis is to be created that no shadow of the choice of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will fall tomorrow, that is, on whom they have given confidence, then it would be logical for this amendment to be accepted. I'm not saying this in the wind. Everything that's happened in years ago confirms the foundation of this amendment. I think it's simply that the promoter either didn't understand or didn't want to understand the meaning of this amendment. I'm saying this very knowingly, responsibly, because if he understood it then he should have accepted the amendment, and if he didn't realize it, then he has time to accept the amendment. If the proposer has been hastened to reach an agreement within the coalition on a common candidate and to pass a law as soon as possible that would regulate the election of the President of the Republic, so he has made this flaw, it can be corrected by accepting this amendment. You know, honourable fellow MPs, there's a lot going on between Thursday nights and Sunday nights at 8:00. From that set deadline, when the electoral silence begins, 48 hours before the voting time, to the closing of polling stations on Sunday at eight o'clock. Wouldn't it make sense that if we were to discuss the election of the President of the Republic, that only the state authorities, so that's the most significant state function, so it expresses state unity, that's Article 1. The draft law on the president, wouldn't it make sense for the choice of the most significant function in the state to be so arranged that it doesn't put a trace of doubt that something can happen that might compromise that choice? Why is the proposer calling for the Law on selecting Members of the People or saying that this could not be accepted? Excuse me, for all I know, this is the first election since the new Constitution. Well, wasn't it logical that the promoter, the government, made this law quality? The government was formed on 15 May 2007. Tomorrow is December 1st, 2007. It's been five and a half months, so the government had plenty of time to make the law. I'm sorry, calling the Law on People's MPs really doesn't make sense. If the government doesn't have time to settle, to make quality law, then we should be told, but calling on or giving such an explanation really doesn't make sense, and I think it's incorrect for us. You know, if the government doesn't make quality law for five and a half months, then we're told -- well, it's called for that other law, then you can see for yourself what kind of rush this is. I haven't mentioned events since the beginning of silence, especially events during election day. Dear fellow MPs, things have been happening over the past few years during the election process. Individuals and some organizations, who call themselves independent, independent, especially NGOs dealing with the elections, were doing dirty things at the time, about the course and content of the elections, and television, and the media, right away. There is an official report by the OSCE, for example, that in these parliamentary elections against the SPS, a negative campaign was conducted through national TV and B92 TV. Remember, respected fellow MPs, that the same B92 TV, when last time the issue of Serbian President was on the agenda, has been calling on voters all day to come out to vote. It's bad for television to do it based on off-the-book data. It's not the state's data, because it's about the election of the President of the Republic, and she did it because she got the information from Cesid, and Cesid is an NGO. Ceside's organization that keeps helping the DS. Cesid was an organization that helped the DS and did it in the '90s. Please, no offense, we are not short-minded, that we cannot tell the citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Cesid, in the 1990s, was tasked with improving everything that was happening in the electoral process, which was not the interest of DS or democratic parties, in an extremely negative way. Conversely, after 5 October, there was a paradise, honey and milk, everything is ideal, there is no problem in the election process at all, there is no problem in the polling stations. Of the 8,350 polling stations, there, it happened in one polling spot, down in Babusnica somewhere, but that doesn't matter. Everything's great, by the way. Isn't it logical that in the elections for the President of the Republic only a state body can provide information on turnout during the elections? Do you really think it's logical for Cesid to be the first to inform the public, unless there's a task of him directing public opinion in the other direction? Remember the role of Cesid in a referendum in Montenegro – he was only 3 percent wrong on the side that led to an independent Montenegro. The will of the citizens of Montenegro is their will, I do not dispute at all, but 3% on that side, by chance? Remember what happened some years ago. Remember October 5th, remember the data that went on that day, and about the turnout and especially those first results - 52, 54, 58, how much Mr. Kostunica received. Remember the panorams that were in the streets, that it was almost 52 percent. You think they had the cheeks after they said they lied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Kostunica did have more votes, but he didn't win. But the media kept talking about the number of votes in percentages. If you want the elections to be really regular, isn't it logical that it is only the state body that will report to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on turnout? So let the citizens judge for themselves, if they want to have the President of the Republic, if they want to plead for someone, let them go out during the day and vote; if they don't want to, let them stay at home. You remember the analysis -- and this population comes out, and this population doesn't come out, and these are supposed to come out, and these aren't supposed to come out -- and all to win a so-called democratic candidate. The victory of any such candidate in such elections is not a regular victory. Wouldn't it make sense that the law regulates all the situations that we've had in the past and that we've qualified, hopefully, mostly as bad, so that it can be said -- the elections are really fair and fair, let anyone come out and vote who will. Wait, isn't the condition of 50 plus one percent of the turnout as the condition of the election's validity? Well, if it was seen that none of the so-called. The democratic candidate can't skip it after October 5th, so where you're going to go anymore, and that's a little bit, but it's obviously going to run a campaign this way. I didn't happen to mention Cesid, because some people from Cesid became... What did you say, sir? These are very interesting issues, and I would like my colleagues to come out for this pay phone, so they can tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about these and similar phenomena.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12518	Mr. Obradich, I agree with you. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the bench, that the session may take its course. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12519	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm detecting a certain degree of nervousness in DS lines. (Bosko Ristić, from the place: It's boring. If you're bored, don't sit there, go home. If you're bored doing the work of a MP, you go home. If you can't listen to this, I'm sorry, Mr. Ristic, then... I'm trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12520	Go on, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12521	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that this story about Cessid has caused some legitimate anxiety, because we're talking about things that were part of life, which were part of the election, and Cessid played a very professionally incorrect role in the election, because those things that were in favor of the so-called. for democratic parties, he silenced or educated citizens, directly or indirectly, in such a way as to challenge their entry into the elections and to vote for their candidate. We have honorable intentions. See the contents of this amendment, see these provisions contained in the law that has been valid so far or will be valid for another day. What is wrong with this law and in this amendment, counterpart Petronijevic, that state authorities give information during the election day? What's wrong with that? If you trust the state, I suppose you trust that authority to issue the right figures. What is wrong with saying that the level of turnout is 32%, so it will be a shame that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not come out for reasons that are very clear? If you have problems of some other kind, then it's something else. In any case, we believe that the amendment of fellow Petronivic is very meaningful and that all that bad experience and behavior of individuals and media, if you will, especially the animation of public opinion and the invitation of voters to vote or a certain population within the electoral body or with calls, directly and indirectly, only for a particular candidate, it really doesn't make sense and it should leave behind us. Well, you were talking about transparency, you were talking about regularity. What is the problem with accepting a logical amendment and making the elections even more regular? I don't see any problem here. And if you see the problem then, excuse me, please, you're giving us the basis that we can draw some other conclusions, that you don't need a law that creates conditions for regular elections, but needs a law that creates a condition for manipulation. Why can't the state authority just tell the state authority? If anyone needs someone else, then say, "We need Cesid until further notice." Listen, Cesid wasn't in RIK either. Why all of a sudden so much love for an NGO that only works for one side? In any case, this amendment should absolutely be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12522	Thank you. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing that the bill on the election of the President of the Republic does not say which majority is needed to win the elections for the President of the Republic. If that were the case, here, I'll read you article 18. The bill, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The stance reads as follows: "For the President of the Republic, a candidate has been elected who received most of the voters who voted. ''In constitutional law theory, there are two concepts of the majority: the concept of a free or relative majority and the concept of an absolute majority. The absolute majority in some countries can also be qualified, so for example, the two-thirds majority, the three-quarters majority, etc. It just says most of them here. We are now in doubt which is the majority that is necessary in order to undoubtedly say that a particular candidate has won the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Is it a simple majority, is it an absolute majority? National MP Zlatan Jovanovic has proposed an amendment that avoids any doubt about who won the elections, and he has suggested that in article 18, the word "most" should be replaced by "the largest number". The position of the SRS is that elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia should be won by the candidate who received the largest number of votes, i.e. who received more votes individually than all other candidates. This is how you avoid the so-called so-called. The second election round. We in the Republic of Serbia have very negative experiences with the second election round. The second election round means nothing but political trade. So a variety of unprincipled settlements between certain political parties and the goal of all these agreements is not to win the best, or strongest candidate. A typical example of such an unprincipled and very ugly political trade was the election for the president of the Republic in 2004, or the second round of these elections. If you remember, in the first round of these elections, SRS candidate Mr Tomislav Nikolic received a convincing majority of votes. However, there was a second election round, and in the second election round, they joined together, as our people, grandmothers and frogs would say. They united DS, DSS and G17 plus, and they used something very ugly. Among the two election rounds in June 2004, they began to scare members of the national minorities that a great evil would happen to them if the SRS candidate wins, and then there was a story if Tomislav Nikolic wins new sanctions will be imposed on the Republic of Serbia, so if Tomislav Nikolic wins the minority, some incredible cataclysms will occur if he wins the Serbian radical in the election for the president of the Republic. Then those who talked about each other all the worst, those who claimed that Boris Tadic was a traitor, and that Vojislav Kostunica was a flimsy man, who knows nothing else to do but play with his cats, suddenly teamed up, suddenly became big political friends and allies and in the second election round he won, unfortunately, Boris Tadic. Mr Tomislav Nikolic will win, don't worry. So Boris Tadic beat and won, as SVM party members said, among other things, and the votes of a part of the Hungarian national minority, who voted for Boris Tadic primarily because of fears brought to them by DSS and DSS that the victory of Tomislav Nikolic would mean some great evil to members of the national minorities. We want, first of all, to prevent this political trade, which is unprincipled, which is very ugly. We want the election of the President of the Republic to be won by the candidate the people want, not by the political oligarchies of DS, DSS and G17 plus. So let the candidate who wins the most votes immediately, or who individually has more votes than all the other candidates. In this way, you avoid political trade, avoid various non-principle agreements, avoid bringing confusion into the people. Instead of raising the political morals of the people, raising its political culture, strengthening the courage of the citizens, you're making a mistake. You speak in early June – those from the DSS all the worst about Tadic, those from DS all the worst about Kostunica. All of a sudden, after 15 days, it all goes away, all of a sudden there's a harmony between the then angry political opponents and then -- what people think, where there's morality, where there's ethics, where there's principle, where there's consistency? Otherwise, we were able to see this political trade, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs in 2007. You remember that the DSS supported Tomislav Nikolic's election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They even claimed that they would not allow DS to take control of the National Assembly, because they already have the President of the Republic, and it would be some elemental political order that, if the prime minister of the DSS, if the president of the Republic of the DS, then the president of the National Assembly, as the third branch, of the legislative authorities, would be just a Serbian radical. Then after a few days, the DSS turns the turkey upside down and with those who've been pulling hoofs on their heads suddenly establish a pact, establish a trade, and now we've got a president of the People's Assembly from the Democratic Party. So, in order to prevent this indiscipline, inconsistency, that the morals of our citizens, which undermines some of the basic principles of democracy, we have suggested that the simplest and simplest solution be found: let the candidate who gets the most votes win. This solution is good for another reason – the cost of the election is reduced. By some estimates, each election round costs at least 3m euros. It's big money. Then why spend money on the second election round, why reorganize election committees, why reprint election material, why again pay political marketing to political parties on radio, television, in newspapers, etc., when all this can end in the first election round? Now I understand why the government has not accepted this amendment. There's not much philosophy here. It's completely clear. The ruling coalition is clear that in the first election round, if the SRS amendment is accepted, it will beat Tomislav Nikolic immediately. They know that Boris Tadic, and especially some other candidate, cannot get more votes than Tomislav Nikolic and then they came up with another election round. However, to this extent, they are politically illiterate that they were not able to write it, but they said, a repeat vote. There's a big difference between the re-election and the second election round, but that's what some other amendments are about, and I don't want to talk about it. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to accept Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment. He is absolutely in the spirit of democracy and that is one solution that can, among other things, raise political morality and political culture in the Republic of Serbia, while reducing election costs. I think it's both in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12524	Thank you. National MP Natasa Micic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title be changed after article 18. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is from MP Vladan Batic, from DHSS, and from the LDP parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12525	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this way of writing and proposing laws is increasingly collapsing the principles of parliamentary democracy. If someone's bored, the hallway's here, the buffet's working. There's no need to chat here. It's perfectly legitimate to chew gum and stuff. It is also a relationship to parliament, and to speakers, but even more so towards the citizens of Serbia. So, Article 18. The draft law on the election of the President of the Republic has been established as the winner of the presidential election. Proposers have been identified as a system in which it doesn't matter how many citizens went to the polls, so it can significantly less than half the total number of voters in Serbia. What's a paradox, it's that the second election round is called the'revoted vote'. We have an explanation that rejects the amendment on the whole side. That really reminds me of whoever wrote this law, Mr. Balinovec. The only thing I don't understand is whether the minister, Mr. Markovic, had the authority of Mr. Balinovec to defend this criminal law in this House. The second election round is called a repeat vote, it is the result of the lightly promised speed, which has started since the adoption of the Constitution and which has been increasingly destroying institutions in this country from day to day, rather than building them up. Why? Because repeating the vote is not the same as competing in the second election round. It's also clear to the legal laymen. Elections are repeated in completely different situations. When certain polling stations are established... The parliamentary majority is phenomenal. I don't know what makes you sit here. You don't have a word to say, you keep yelling, grinning, chewing and showing Serbia who should not vote in the upcoming elections. So you're very nice, mind the questions of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12526	I pray peace in the O.R. Let's get people to work, not much more, and I'm asking the People's Messengers not to get from their benches, whoever the People's Messenger is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12527	It's sad and tragic that this group of yours is working. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, because I've been a fellow to the DS whose head was Zoran Djindjic for a year. This is a disgrace and a shame for such DS. I would ask you, Mr. President, to allow me to normally explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12528	Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12529	And to calm down and silence the passions of your party colleagues, which I have in no way challenged. I'm trying to explain one amendment completely and peacefully. So we have another paradox. When elections and voting are held, or as it is already called, or the first election round, it is said they are necessarily held on a non-working day. To repeat the election or repeat the vote instead of being the second election round, it is not said to be a rough day, it can be obvious on Wednesday, and Friday and some religious or other holiday, and apparently there is some hidden intention. Why not on a rough day? Something else that's a complete paradox when we talk about elections. This country no longer has a clearly defined territory, which is one of the three attributes of the state. We now have another problem related precisely to the vote or what you call a repeat vote, and what in the amendment, distinguished counterparts Natasa Micic should be the second round of elections. Since it's been sacred and centuries, that's how it is. We don't have a clear number of voters. In Serbia, we don't know how many citizens there are. We will not have fully arranged voter lists, because of these virtual citizens who have acquired the right to be enrolled and to get Serbian citizenship, not to engage in those reasons, does not matter. How will voting lists be clearly defined so that we know the number of voters? Now I remind you of 2002 and 2003, so you remember how Kostunica complained about not knowing the exact number of voters and that no voter list was defined, and there are 200,000, 300,000, 600,000 missing; and now it's much worse. I don't know what the idea of such quick attempts is to pass the law and hold elections. I suppose the idea is to re-elected Mr. Boris Tadic for Serbian President Vojislav Kostunica to rule Serbia. That's what we've got going on today. Like it or not, that's how it is. The president is Boris Tadic, but the Serbian government is Vojislav Kostunica. What kind of atmosphere should elections be held? In an atmosphere that is very resembling in the 1990s. With this power in Serbia, time goes backwards. It's just a calendar today, November 30th, 2007. According to the environment and everything that surrounds us, this is Serbia in the '90s. The economic crisis, recession, unemployment of huge proportions, social misery, millions of people on the edge of existence, strikes all over the country – educators, workers of the government's body, right, because their position is poor, oil industry I see now in "Dnevnik", in Panchev strikes, reserve strike in Kursumlija and Prokuplje, preparing new strikes, meaning chaos on all sides. We deal with faster and better written, purposely written laws that undermine the idea of parliamentary democracy. We also have the tycounisation of Serbia, newly-compromised rich people are on the whole side. Go to the supermarket and you'll see what that looks like. Today I mentioned - milk, sugar, oil, baby equipment, baby food, diapers, everything is several times more expensive than in Germany. Not to mention Croatia and Slovenia. Then we're told there's honey and milk, like someone's crazy. Montenegro's gone and nobody's gone. Kosovo, unfortunately, is leaving and then we will again listen to some epics, myths, as if Philip Višnic had risen. Whoever's talking is more blind than Filip Višnic. The citizens of Serbia lie from day to day. Crime and corruption flourish. So the ruling coalition is doing everything possible to bring down those European institutions, such as the Competition Protection Commission, the Anti-Corruption Council. DS colleagues, will the DS apologize to Verica Barać because your official filed a criminal report against her, which was immediately dismissed? A ruling coalition official, whose institution is the Union for Combating Corruption, filed a criminal report on behalf of the main monopoly against the president of the council and as no matter. It's okay. How much is it? Law school gives legal interpretations. The law school, unfortunately, and some of our comrades. He's a colleague in Kragujevac, and I'd like to open up the story here about the Educational Mafia in Kragujevac. Do you know how much we'd have to say? All day or days to talk about it, I'd love to. So these stories of affairs are also selective justice. A tobacco affair, but they don't arrest their own. A travel affair, but they don't arrest their own. The pathways of these affairs lead to the top of the government, to individual ministries and to individual ministers. It's a bankruptcy mob, too. Everyone who's at the head of the resistor leads to these paths. They are the top of crime in Serbia, they are lying corruption in Serbia, and then everyone is afraid to make a survey board. Let's see why milk, oil, sugar, diapers are more expensive than anywhere in Southeast Europe. Let's see why. Why are you afraid of the truth? Let's find out the truth. Let's see who's lying, who's stealing, who's taking, who's got the monopoly. Why? So it should be done in the interest of Serbian citizens, who are completely confused, disappointed, rescinded, demoralised. We're having a hard time. Let's tell us once more honestly whether there's going to be a choice. What if independence is declared between December 10th and December 31st? Many argue that it will be, that the EU has already agreed, and we do - probably will not; or is it some naive idea that a quick-tracking presidential election will stop recognition of Kosovo's independence? They're stories for little kids. I repeat what I started with, this amendment to Article 19 and to the following members means a second election round, not a repeat vote, because the repeat vote is in a completely different situation, which is not the second election round.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12530	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12531	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is obvious that the President of the National Assembly is inconsistencies with the Rules of Procedure. Not only are we holding Fridays at 9:00 a.m. vampire session of the National Assembly, because obviously someone is in a hurry, not only is there physically and psychologically exhausted the MPs of the opposition, but there is no Minister of State Administration and local self-government in the room, there is no deputy, or secretary of state, there are only a few MPs of the DS, who don't care what it says in the bill, but that's why they get all the time, they insult, they bring up some of their own personal impressions about those who speak, and you, Mr. Dulic, don't do anything to introduce this session into idols of regular flows. Yesterday, you gave me two warnings because I quoted part of the title of a book by Dr Vojislav Seselj, which is otherwise very read and sought and all over Serbia is being held. Here, all the time your MPs from the DS are getting, and you're not using your powers under Articles 105 and 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges you to maintain order at the session. If you are applying the Rules of Procedure, then apply it equally to all and do not look at who is from which group of MPs. Yesterday it bothers you to mention the title of a book or part of that title, and now you don't mind when your MPs earn, when they insult, when they behave like a gladiatoric arena. Look, the man's laughing, he's very funny. In the bill, they write nonsense, but he laughs and the president of the National Assembly does nothing. As regards the amendment submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, this is an amendment to Article 18(1). I missed something to say, but if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, there's something I'd like to supplement. Now Mrs. Hope will calm her gladiators. Mrs. Nado, you're under-hearing, you need to strengthen that party discipline. What is characteristic of the whole bill, one says in the bill, the other says in reasons why amendments are not accepted. The bill says'most of the votes', and it does not specify whether it is a simple majority, whether it is an absolute majority, but therefore in an explanation why the amendment of MP Zlatan Jovanovic is rejected mentioning the term 'absolute majority'. So now the government is telling us what she was going to say. She didn't say that in the bill, but it says'most', and you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, think whether it's simple or absolute, but that's why she doesn't accept the amendment says it's an absolute majority. I really don't understand why it doesn't say it in the bill, why it says one thing in the bill and the other in the arguments. Actually, it's clear. The bill defends the state administration minister and local self-government, which essentially, according to its portfolio, has nothing to do with this law. He didn't write it. The law was written by someone else, written by an DSS official. Now there's been a general confusion. The bill was written by a man whose party obviously won't have a candidate in the election for the President of the Republic or, if she has a candidate, that candidate has no chance of winning. The bill in the Serbian Parliament defends or should at least defend a party minister who will have a presidential candidate. That's why this cacophony, this general chaos in the bill, was created, to write one thing in the bill, and the other in an explanation of why certain amendments are not accepted. If you had a little goodwill, all the amendments to the SRS absolutely make sense and would have really improved the bad bill on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia. There's no minister here to answer us. And when he's here, he doesn't talk about amendments, he gives some of his general findings and smiles. I would like to invite you, Mr. Dulic, to apply the Rules of Procedure consistently and in principle to all MPs. If we can sit here and explain, the best we can, the amendments we've submitted to this disastrous text of the bill, then what you, the least you can do, is calm the MPs from the DS. Because you're taking care of it. What if Uncle Sam was sitting here from the White House, what if he was sitting here as head of the OSCE Mission in Serbia, what if he was sitting here as an American or British ambassador, what would you say - Mr. Democrats, how are you acting, where are European principles, where is democracy, where are human rights and freedoms, where are your unconquerable standards? Act a little in the spirit of your words. Don't talk one way or another. However, it is clear to us in the SRS that you are wolves who have drawn lamb skin upon you. But here, there will be presidential elections, so we'll take that lamb's skin off your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12532	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Zlatan Jovanovic of the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 19(1). The member reads, "If no candidate gets most of the voters' votes, the vote is repeated within 15 days of the first vote." My colleague Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment to Article 19 of position 1 reads: "If two or more candidates get the same and at the same time the majority of voters who voted, the vote is repeated within 15 days of the day of holding the previous vote." Since Mr Zlatan Jovanovic gave an excellent amendment to Article 18, he explained this: the amendment follows to submit the amendment previously to Article 18. It's a bill of law. But your argument, mildly said, is shameful and inconsistencies, and it says this: "Amendment is not accepted, because it is based on the amendment of the same MP who was submitted to article 18. A bill of law that has also not been adopted." Now the question is raised -- if Article 18 had been accepted, would you have chronologically accepted article 19, or is this a trace of some chronology -- simply not accepted? If Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic had submitted an amendment to Article 1, so that he was accepted, then, in some order of yours, the whole law should be accepted. This is one inconsistencies of the person responsible for writing an explanation. In fact, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic remained consistent with his first amendment and Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Vjerica Radeta explained why Zlatan Jovanovic was right. Because he also proved in article 18 that there was no need for a second round at all. If you're pushing for the candidate who gets the most votes to be president, then there shouldn't be a second round. To explain to the citizens, Article 18 of position 1 reads: "For the President of the Republic a candidate has been elected who received most of the votes of the voters who voted." Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment reads, "In Article 18, paragraph 1, the word "most" is replaced by the words "most numbers". The amendment will best respect the voter's will in the democratic and best way, by making the president the candidate for whom the largest number of voters votes, avoiding the second round of voting, i.e. party trade and the costs followed by the election process. As my esteemed colleague Martinovic said, it's not small money. We're trying, and you're only pushing through the story to cut costs. It is evident that a threem-euro minimum should be provided for a single voting cycle. This would make sense, in case the candidates appear, I will give a concrete example in order to make it easier, Mr Tadic and Mr Nikolic, along with some other candidates. Mr. Nikolic, as usual, as it goes, always wins. There's no need to go to the second round. We know, in the second round there's already abstinence, fewer voters coming out, fewer voters, and then it's not that representative sample, to prove that there were the most voters at the time and that the president has to become the one who has the majority. As you explained in your refusal, I will read to you how you rejected Zlatan, it is said that the president should be the one who wins the largest number of votes and that it is the president who reflects the will of the citizens. If in the first round, Mr Nikolic wins, I don't know what in the second round when you break up, you start threatening Serbian citizens from economic sanctions and beyond, but nobody believes it anymore. Then you team up and then like celebrate some victory, you all together against one candidate. The explanation that you rejected Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic, with you knowing that there will be no second round because Tomislav Nikolic will win in the first round, which will certainly be, so there will be no cost, I would understand. But with this explanation, it is not really appropriate, nor is it a reflection of the will of the citizens. If the citizens voted in the first round and if the candidate won the first round, why should we even go into the second round and come up with something to spend the money on? We said it wasn't small funds and it was big funds. I don't see why you didn't accept Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment, if you're sure of your candidate, Mr. Tadic. Then you could have accepted this amendment freely, so you would have known, if you were sure that he would win in the first round why go and refuse this amendment that regulates there is no second round. You're probably not sure either, and you don't believe in your candidate, that he will be able to win, and then it's quite logical that you rejected the amendment of Zlatan Jovanovic, with you hoping that in the second round you'll break out, that you'll press the media, print and TV media on voters and make some coalition and trade agreements with your coalition partners, so you'll promise them something. The will of the citizens should be shown right in that first round when the greatest turnout is. I say, the economic factor will show, if we come to the second round, what will happen, but there is no minister or his secretary, what will happen in that second round of the same two candidates, I'm sure, and the citizens of Serbia are sure that everything will be resolved in the first round and that Mr Tomislav Nikolic will become president of Serbia, if it happens in the second round, and possibly, by law, both candidates who enter the second round have the same number of votes, then we will re-open new elections from the beginning, so it will cost tax citizens. I agree with Mrs. Verice Radet that this will not happen, perhaps in some other election. This is where Mr Tomislav Nikolic will win in the first round. Let me tell you, hypothetically, if that happened, that would be what, games without borders, and who would do the most damage: taxpayers and citizens. If we get to the second round or repeat, as it stands here, there's always a weaker response from the citizens. Then it will not be shown in the second round whether it is the very candidate who wins and says he will win the most votes and that it will be a real figure that will show that the people are with that candidate. In the second round, much fewer voters come out, will not be a representative specimen and will not reflect the will of citizens. The first round is what Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic proved and showed through these amendments, that they are both legally and economically justified and I appeal to all of you, although you have a different opinion, to accept this amendment. I don't see why you wouldn't accept it. If you believe in your candidate Mr. Tadic, then there's no reason to be afraid of the second round. Accept this amendment and save the taxpayers' money and you'll prove thrifty. And if you're not, and the election will come very soon and then we'll see. We believe in our candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as well as the citizens of Serbia, and we are convinced that everything will be settled in the first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12534	The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12535	Mr Dulic, when counterpart Zarko Obradovic here spoke of Cesid as part of the DS a while ago, that's not what he said, I say, that's when there was such confusion among the DS lawmakers, such throws that are at the very least the least and the least unspeakable. It was only correctness that prevented me from reporting to the Rules of Procedure immediately. You saw, Mr. Dulic, how Bosko Ristic reacted. He said he was bored. I don't know why he was sitting there, and now he's gone, so I guess he's gone for a little drink, so he'll come back again. These others here who laugh like crazy on flour, look like bad commercials for Orbit gum, just chewing, chewing, opening their mouths, getting it, just getting it -- don't be smart, don't talk. That's what you're hearing, Mr. Dulic. From us, the MPs of the opposition, you expect correctness and we are correct. That, being correct doesn't mean we won't talk about amendments. Whether it's over by that 10:00 p.m. when you're planning or continuing tomorrow, or Sunday, or last night or Monday, we're here and we're going to work. I understand that the MPs are tired, because we've been working for 11 hours, but if someone's tired, Mr. Dulic, then we're tired of the MPs who work, not the ones who change -- the hour at the restaurant, the hour here, the hour at the MP's club to watch what's going on from the chair, to make phone calls, the hour here. I don't know what they're tired of. Indeed, it cannot be tolerated and I am telling you, I am not threatening you, but I warn you, when the MPs of the SRS speak, from now on until the end of today's work day, if any rude remarks by the DS MPs are heard, we are going to debate in the Rules of Procedure. So let's let it last as long as it takes. Indeed, this insolence can no longer be tolerated. You don't care about the law, if you don't have a minister, if you don't participate in the work, what else do you want, Mr. Democrats? What do you mean, you come to a democratic rule? That you would suggest and everyone would keep quiet. It's democratic, then. It is an insolence and it is a rude attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, it is an insult to the dignity and intelligence of Serbian citizens. Gentlemen, so-called Democrats, I strongly recommend you and advise you to take care of your behavior. We accepted, as I said, that we work correctly, but indeed everything has a limit. You have crossed, or you have reached the border and another ugly word, and I now announce immediately after that debate by the Rules of Procedure. Minister, did you get any sleep, have lunch, rest, welcome. We are here, Mr. Minister, in article 19. Proposal for a law on the election of a president. I believe that if you had been here, you would have accepted at least some amendment, of course, provided you were given the authority of the author of the text, Mr. Balinovac. You don't seem to have that consent yet. I will say, before I move on to my colleague Milorad Krstin's amendment, that the amendment that was just explained here by Mr Vladan Batic, which was submitted by MP Natasa Micic, is a good amendment. It is truly surprising why this amendment is not accepted either. We didn't report that we were talking specifically about this amendment, because there's no need. In addition to what was said, or without any explanation, only what was foreseen by the amendment was enough to realize that the bill was made, I would say, a mistake. You're looking at it differently, that's your problem. Article 19 speaks of a repeat vote. You say, "If no candidate gets most votes of voters who voted, the vote is repeated within 15 days of the day of the first vote." A colleague, Milorad Krstin, who is not here tonight, because Zrenjanin is at the promotion of the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj, this book called "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić", and that is why I am here to explain this amendment instead. So, we think it's not good what's been written since the day of the first vote, and we suggested that instead it says, "If no candidate gets most of the voters who voted, the vote is repeated within 15 days of holding the previous vote. '"This is just a legal-technical editorial, but I think it should be taken care of, because really when we have a legal text as bad as this one and this one, it's written like this, then every correction that's well-intentioned is welcome. And every serious representative of the government and the serious assembly majority would at least think about the amendment, at least listen to the MPs when they explain the amendment. You might learn something, depending on how much time it takes of you to figure something out, but maybe there are some who can learn from an explanation like this. You say you don't accept this amendment. Once again, you say, "The amendment is not accepted," and then you say, "The legal and technical editorial of the text of the bill is not necessary" -- truly amazing. However, you added'since the wording of the bill is shorter and more precise', but that the legal-technical editorial of the text is not necessary – this is really, I don't know, someone wrote this somewhere, I don't think he even sat at the table, but probably somewhere in the race or in the car, so that's what occurred to him. That's what I said yesterday, the day before yesterday, when we were talking about that previous law, that I saw all sorts of laws, but this is also the concept of bad law, and this is the formalized law, I really didn't see this, not even this kind of reasoning. It's best that you just wrote what you really think: we don't care, the MPs, what you write, we'll do it like this, so you like it or you don't like it. We know that and that you still have a majority, although we don't know what will happen after the election is called, if you have a majority, as long as you have a majority, we will, of course, have some other time, when one of your coalition partners is here, because there is no one here, because they announce that they will boycott the elections, because they announce they won't vote for these laws that we've been discussing for days. It is indeed a question of what is happening in Serbia today. Is anyone in Serbia interested today in something that really is the real problems of this country? When will we have the Kosovo and Metohija problem on the agenda? Come on, Mr. Dulic, while you're still together and while you have that congregation majority and the opportunity to schedule a session, schedule that session, let's see what our negotiating team and members of the negotiating team are talking about in the white world. Don't let the MPs know from the media. Invoke that session, bring here the representatives of the negotiating team, let's ask them a few questions. If what is written and what we hear in the media is true, then they have exceeded the powers they have received from this National Assembly. You heard this morning that the Italian Parliament also adopted a resolution that insists on respecting Resolution 1244, and we hear from some representatives of our negotiating team that the military doesn't have to return, enough is Gendarmere. It's an automatic violation of Resolution 1244. We hear a lot, but we can't, it would be unserious if we MPs were to comment on what we read in the papers. So we insist, Mr. Dulic, that you call urgently a session that will be devoted to Kosovo and Metohija, that the entire negotiating team be here in front of the MPs, to answer our questions, to tell us what they did and what they did. We are seeing what mysterious plans the ministers are announcing to us a few days later, if so, and the announcements are from all sides that self-proclaim will take place, and then recognition by some or most of the EU states, an independent Kosovo. Yesterday, the MPs asked you, Mr. Markovic, to answer, I think counterpart Stevic asked you to give some answers on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. I was really shocked, and all of us, when you, even angryly, said, "Don't ask me that, it's in the power of Minister Samardzic." Is it possible that Kosovo and Metohija are in charge of only one minister? Is it possible that the entire government, and the President of the Republic, and the President of Parliament and all MPs did not put it as a priority issue for themselves? Do you know what the date is today? Do you know which date is approaching? It will happen that you will not call this session, that your coalition will fall apart, because you will call the elections you have already announced, as you have announced before. Even if the laws don't get passed, you'll call the election. You say, "Let it be done by the old laws." And the fact that these laws don't comply with the Constitution, who cares, who needs the law and the Constitution any more in this country? No one, unfortunately, because none of the competent state authorities adhere to the Constitution, nor the law, and it's really amazing that we're going to get into a situation, and that's possible, that the ruling coalition is breaking up, because all the announcements are that it's going to happen and you're going to say nice: here, I'd schedule a session, but I don't have the opportunity, again, the technical government, again, who knows what. You remember what problems we had at the time of that technical government, for which Boris Tadic was directly responsible for why she was a technical government, that we were not going back at that time how long it took you to form a government, to establish parliament. The only thing you don't need is the distribution of public enterprises and boards of directors. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at least now you seem to listen very carefully, it would be nice if you'd acted like this all these days, if you really listened to what we're telling you, to try to understand that we have a good intention, that we want to fix this law, if and when these elections are discussed, that they are held by law, which will not immediately go before your party constitutional court to assess constitutionality and legality. Indeed, there is much to take care of as MPs. It's the easiest place to sit here, walk outside. Gentlemen, you have not been sent here, not all of us, nor Mom or Dad, but we have been sent by the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, expecting certain answers and certain questions. We Serbian radicals are absolutely ready to respond to everything the citizens of Serbia ask of us, but at least it would be collegiate if you were to behave in the same way or at least similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12536	National MP Natasa Micic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12537	Mr. Dulic, I have reported on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. To be honest, I expected you to say a word about what you were saying today to the heads of Parliament or to those people who were at your meeting. Mrs. Verica Radeta asked certain questions, asked questions, it was your turn to say something about it. Today, you have presented to us the work plan of the National Assembly made by the congregation majority. There is no reason not to say that a session on Kosovo and Metohija is planned, that it is planned, I am saying this because we MPs of the SPS and SPS President Ivica Dacic and we several MPs individually have repeatedly asked to discuss it. I refer to this for the reason that if you told us it would be, there is no reason not to tell the present MPs and the public of Serbia that a plan of work has been made by the ruling coalition that includes the debate on KIM. I don't think there's any reason to keep this quiet, and that's a good thing to say, just so it's clear that the Assembly has planned to work on that and that this topic is more, at least on our part, the present SPS MPs, not to mention tonight, but to know that the Assembly will discuss it. Are we satisfied that it will be then or sooner or later, it's already another story. But it seems to me it was your turn to say it was planned.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12538	I thought I'd say in the end, when we're done arguing. The reason I can't say it is still because I don't know the exact date, so it wouldn't be whether it was 14 or 16, so it wouldn't be that I said it wrong. Just for that reason. But I can, if you'll let me. So, a work plan was made by the end of the year that would include two meetings on KIM. One session would be following the end of the budget debate, where the negotiating team would be a report, and that would be between the 10th report and the Security Council's report 19th. After that, a special session was planned to bring about a new resolution on Kosovo. Minister Samardzic announced that he would start consultations with parliamentary groups from 10-11 on it. It's still not something that's fixed. That's why I didn't want to give some dates just like that. So, it is also according to the work plan to pass all the laws necessary for the vote to be called. We already have these laws in the assembly procedure, we have an announcement from the Ministry of Local Self-Government that the remaining laws will also enter the assembly procedure and the minister's announcement that, in collaboration with all parliamentary groups, too, they will look to the law on local self-government and territorial organisation, which would reduce the number of amendments and contribute to the Assembly with one effective work, with the correctness of all parliamentary groups, as it has been today, to finish the job. Well, that's what I wanted at the end of the session, but thank you for warning me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12539	Thank you for saying this. I very consciously avoided mentioning the date and other things, precisely for the reasons you mentioned, but the fact that you said it would be, I think it makes sense in itself, and that's why I acted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12540	Is anyone answering by amendment to Natasa Micic? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted. The government has accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. If the ministry representative accepts this amendment, the amendment will become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12541	Yes, the government accepts the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12542	National MP Natasa Micic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the will and strength to explain in these hours all the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, although they are not here and to point out some of the contradictions that have been given in the reasoning and the proposals of the law. For the public, let me read it first. So, the amendment to Article 20(2) reads: "More than two candidates participate in the re-vote, if they are more divided by the first place or if they are more divided by the second place". The bill says: 'More than two candidates participate in the re-vote, if more is shared by the first or second place. '"So, they add, in fact, four words or three words and one ally, 13 letters. This argument was delivered to Mr Cvetanovic, a fellow MP, says this way: "Amendman is not accepted. The formulation of amendments and the bill have the same meaning (and we agree with that), with the formulation of the bill being shorter and more concise. ''So, this coincides with that amendment that I explained this afternoon in an afternoon debate on Article 11, where I asked that a certain position of that member be deleted in relation to him having four rows and I don't know how many letters and words. In order for a law to be shorter and more precise, it must be precise and clear. Due to the replacement of terminology, more precisely, due to the replacement of the thesis and words, Mr Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to clarify that there can be no more of a first or second time than to add them, more specifically - if more is shared by the second or first place, in fact, first or second place. Therefore, the formulation of Mr Cvetanovic's amendments does not change the essence of this Article 20th position 2, does not alter any provision of this article, but it is a refusal without any legal basis, with an explanation that it is not concise and that it is not shorter than what was proposed is another proof that the government has rejected amendments because they are proposed by the SRS, not because they speak more precisely what they should already say, although it has itself admitted in the explanation that they have the same content and the same meaning. That's why I don't think it's a good practice, because we've taken this law to change everyone together, we've made an effort to change it, even though we know you won't adopt this, but very soon after the next parliamentary elections, when we have a majority, we're going to change a lot of things, including this law, and this member. So much for those mini-changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12544	Thank you. The MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted the 21st Amendment with the correction. The government has not accepted an amendment with a correction, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment with the correction be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Miljanic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, before I move on to the explanation of the amendments, I would like to point out one fact that has been repeated at least twice in this law. We have one practice that has not appeared in the Assembly so far, that two MPs when they submit one amendment to the same text, so far it has been a practice to say, in an explanation of the acceptance of the amendment, that MPs have submitted an amendment in the same text and that the Government accepts or does not accept. This time, it happened to us that Mr. Bojan Milovanovic and Ms. Natasa Jovanovic had already submitted the first amendment in the exact same text and then accepted the amendment, i.e. the government accepted Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's amendment, and in the light of the amendments by Dr. Bojan Milovanovic, it is said that the amendment was not accepted because the amendment was accepted. Please, next time you have a case like this, write that the amendment in the same text has been submitted by you and these MPs, and that the Government accepts that amendment, so that one amendment does not happen to be accepted by one MP, and that the same amendment of the other MPs is rejected and written in an explanation by the Government not to accept that amendment because an amendment of another MP has been accepted. I think it has been a practice so far to say that the amendment has been submitted by you and those MPs and I ask you to go back to that practice. If there's a business explanation, I can tell you because in the members...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12546	You're in first place. Now the deputy secretary tells me you're right. Thank you for your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12547	We are socialists, or members of the SPS Parliament Club. Now, since you accepted, then there's not much point in me explaining this amendment, because the government has accepted this amendment, so I'm going to do a good deed to shorten the speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12548	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, MPs Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Bajatovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12549	Don't be afraid, Minister, I don't throw a glass. Natasa Jovanovic, when needed, was water-popping, and then I resented her for not throwing a glass at her at the moment. There's no reason for that right now, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12550	Do I have to be afraid, Mrs. Verice? I hope not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12551	No, I said there's still no reason for water or glass, you're safe, don't worry. Wherever they are, everyone's safe. The amendment to Article 24 was submitted by Mr Dragan Todorovic and proposed that Article 24 of the transitional provisions of the bill on the election of the president be deleted. Why? Because Article 24 states: "The first elections for the President of the Republic to be held under this law have the right to vote by those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are enrolled in the electoral lists according to the criteria used for elections for MPs held on 21 January 2007. ''This member was directly injured by Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of electoral law and says that every adult, commercially competent citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be elected. Election law is general and equal, elections are free and direct, and the vote is secret and personal. Election law enjoys legal protection in accordance with the law. Who came to mind with what explanation, because this one that was given here was really completely unbulkable and unargumented, to freeze on January 21st, 2007 election lists? What changed from January 21st 2007 to January 20th 2008, when elections are supposed to be held, is equal to one year? Do you think there's been no change in the voter list in a year? The fact that you wrote in an explanation that it had nothing to do with the freezing of voter lists, that the legal basis was contained in Article 10. The law on the selection of MPs, which has not been changed so far, which, of course, has nothing to do with this; you mention citizens of Serbia who have Yugoslav citizenship, so you assume there are how many people who have acquired Montenegrin citizenship in the meantime, how many are there; so is there any record in this country? Of course, at least that citizenship thing exists. The fact is that many Serbian citizens still have Yugoslav citizenship in the book. Born in Serbia, they live in Serbia, but here's some administration, some services haven't been able to change that. This really is no argument for you, because it writes to some people, so what, is it to whoever it says he has Yugoslav citizenship you won't let go to the election? We really don't understand. What about everyone who's been a minor since January 21st, 2007? What about the voter lists that need to be changed because some people died in the meantime? What about those who have moved, who have gained citizenship? The fundamental problem is the fact that there is no single voter list in Serbia. I will remind you of the 2000 elections, when members of the DS RIK absolutely supported the members of the RIK from the SRS when we insisted finally on creating a single voter list, which would indeed be the only right criterion of how many voters there are in Serbia. And then we'd know exactly how many voters voted and who they voted for, or how many votes, but really with the right data, they got. What you've been looking for is a unique electoral list, so since 2000, since you took over power, you've started calling it a different name, it's not a unique polling list anymore, it's a set of lists by municipalities, and then it's true to you now and it's a unique voter list. It's simply not true according to the present state of things. We have a large number of people on the ballots who died. Every time elections take place, every time in the election day we cannot survive how many people call us to the party headquarters or municipal committees across Serbia, he says, his father or mother got a call to vote, and he died a few years ago who knows how many years ago; or, he says, I became a minor, enrolled in a voter's list, went to vote, I'm not in the voter's list; or, he says, last time I voted, now I'm gone, I'm not on the voter's list. So, various machinations happen with voters' lists and you all know it well. This will happen until we have a single polling list, which means that in that case there would be no possibility, let's say, that the same person votes in two or three places, which is now possible, regardless of the spray. I met some people who said they voted both in Obrenovac and in the Savaweave, that the spray that was put on can, so well soap is removed and after a while that it no longer leaves a mark. The main problem is the existence, i.e. the absence of a single electoral list. We of the SRS, whenever it comes to elections, and whatever elections are spoken of, and our members in the RIK do not miss any session of the Commission without drawing attention to the necessity of establishing a single electoral list. It is the jurisdiction, part of your ministry, Mr Markovic, part of the interior ministry, which requires coordination between the two ministries. I don't think there are any more problems that have existed until recently, I don't think there are any more municipalities in Serbia that have no computers. So all it takes is to network it, to build a program. I know it's not very easy or very simple, but it's really been so long that there's no excuse for why it hasn't been done so far. Now, in addition, you explain to us that the presidential elections will be held with voter lists, as it is written here, according to which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to vote, which are included in the electoral lists according to the criteria used for elections for MPs held on January 21st 2007. Then you convince us that this does not mean that the voter lists are frozen on January 21st, 2007. We claim that's exactly what this means. Because what criteria are these, what criteria are you talking about and the criteria used for the January 21st, 2007 elections? There are no criteria, no criteria. It is known that citizens have the right to check whether they are on the electoral list, they are called on to do so. Those who become adult come to enroll. Here, now one message to everyone who has become or become a full-time adult, that municipalities don't do what they should do, and that means when someone becomes a full-aged person to automatically register, that's not true. That's not how it works. So here's an invitation, since the election is being prepared, to all those who have become full - age in the meantime, to turn to their municipalities where they live, where their residence has been reported, and that they should be entered in the voter list. I don't just know what's going to happen, Mr. Markovic, let's say, with those young people who become full-aged and who are listed in the voter list, will they be able to vote if this article is applied 24. I really didn't understand it from your explanation, Mr. Minister Markovic, because what it says here, I really don't think he understands who wrote it, and I'm convinced that you didn't write it, that you would write it smarter and smarter. So the answer we're looking for is what happens to the changes that occurred in the voter lists after January 21st, 2007. Whoever guarantees us, unless the amendments of counterparts Dragan Todorovic and Dusan Bajatovic are accepted, that this member is deleted, who can by any means explain himself, and this unblessed or someone who will give us, which may sound reasonable to us, but as long as it stands in this law we cannot believe and that we have confidence that citizens who have become full-aged will be able to vote and that there will be all the changes that have taken place in the electoral list in the last year and who have been reported in good time will be able to conduct for these next elections. This is written in Article 24 of the transitional provisions and I pray you, Mr. Minister, in addition to trying to explain to us that something that does not appear in the law will be possible, that something contrary to Article 24, so that we do not remain in doubt, that we do not doubt the elections that are not yet scheduled, that you accept this amendment well, and that, at least as far as it is concerned, we do not have a headache, that we do not think at least about who will be able to vote in these elections, who will not be able to, how will we explain to the citizens of Serbia. You know, on election day, you're who knows where, and we're in the seats of our own parties and then the citizens call and ask us how I can't vote, why I'm not listed in the voter's list, why I've been deleted, and I've been on the ballot. We have, of course, the patience to talk to all these citizens, but unfortunately, we can't help them. What's the electoral list that's being cleared here before the elections, and you know that there's no change on the day of the election, and that's okay, and that's normal, but I'm asking you, or I suggest you, I can't believe whatever you're saying, I can't believe you're gonna believe that if you stay in Article 24, that there won't be any voter lists frozen on January 21st, 2007. You just can't convince me. So I suggest you accept this amendment and at least release us from this common torment. Your law isn't good anyway. You heard a lot of objections to both of these laws yesterday. Indeed, I must repeat, since this is now about having a debate, because this is the last amendment to this bill. The law, both this and the president's election and the president's law, is so bad, Mr. Minister, as if it were written with a left foot. Bad law is not a good solution. We'll have problems in his application. Of course, we are prepared to go to elections under this law. We are prepared to run for Mr Tomislav Nikolic and under this law, we will welcome his victory by this law, but we would really prefer to have a better and clearer, more precise, more precise and more consistent with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12552	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, who is proposing this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12553	Dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs or fellow Members of Parliament, however you wish, I hope the television broadcast goes, so that I may in the next 15 minutes... (From the site, the Verse of Radeta: There goes the transfer. You checked, Mrs. Radeta... to show all my speech skills. But here, I'll do my best to explain why we submitted this amendment. You've seen, I must admit, the exposure, my fellow Radet, that this is actually the opposition's pressure on one question that you, while you were in the opposition, asked. And that's the question: you were stealing, it's just a question of when we'll prove it to you. You said right, Mrs. Radeta, when you say we start working on the Rules of Procedure, these guys don't get any, and these guys are a little fatter and greasy. What's the point? This issue of a single polling list is the pressure of the opposition to power. That voter list was the reason for calling and while you were fighting for power. So it's really absurd that in the 21st century we're still spraying on that spray, where the absurdity goes from some claiming that this spray is... Even Mr. Secretary has a different opinion when it comes to spray... So, the absurdity goes from that spray being cancerous, to the fact that today's ministry, among other things, for the information society, is its second part in the name of the ministry. In the work plan for this year and for the following year, it does not have the establishment of a single computer system, if nothing else, and that in terms of the record according to the unique home number of citizens, and to enable us to reach a unique list. I really don't want to take up all the time, but I want to tell you that at this point, even Serbia has both people and computer capacities, so also experts, and the possibility of making a relatively easy voter list. What surprises me is that in this country, because of the poverty that has arisen for various reasons, there are various donations coming, how that individual EU or EU countries in general did not realize that one of the basic remarks that it also had on its own watchdog missions, which is the absence of a single voter's list, donates to Serbia to resolve it. I don't know if it's in agreement with the authorities, but I do know that the lack of a single ballot is still a space for manipulation and that it creates mistrust between us as actors on the political scene. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to call the authorities, but also the donors from the EU and the world, so if we are not already able to buy us a better spray, as a fellow with a fat head says, to get rid of these sprays and all other things, and that in one serious way, by buying computer equipment and networking it, as it is appropriate for Serbia of the 21st century, we solve the issue of the single polling list. Mr. President, fellow chairman, fellow MPs, I have used four minutes, those 11 gifts to both you and the citizens who have had the tenacity to listen to us so far. The power of your legal project is not so much in the arguments, nor in your inability to hear the opposition's good arguments. The power of this law is, as in many other procedures, that at this moment you have a majority in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12554	Thank you very much, Mr. Bayatovic, for that gift. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government want the final word? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12555	Thank you, Mr. President. In the end, the only thing I can say is that it was my pleasure to participate in this debate. Of course, the opposition has a critical reference to the proposed laws. I would like to say that we will consider a significant part of the remarks by Vote Day. I think there's some inaccuracies left, and first of all, I'm thinking of Article 24. I want to assure you that absolutely all full-aged citizens will have the right to enlist in the voter's list, have the right to vote in these elections. Also, like Mrs. Radeta, I really invite all of our fellow citizens to enlist in the voter's list because we have elections ahead. So, I think the laws, despite the numerous criticisms that have been sent here, are basically not bad, but I am sure that in the future we will have the opportunity to make a better law on the election of the President of the Republic, and a better law on the President of the Republic. As for the single polling list, together with my associates, I tried to make some plans at the ministry. counterpart Bajatovic rightly said it was an issue involving the interior ministry. I believe and hope, I do not want to exaggerate, but I hope that these elections for the President of the Republic will be the last elections for the President of the Republic we have without a single ballot. It's hard for me to promise. Although it seems to be simple, it's not simple, but here's Mrs. Radeta's kind of saying, I won't be a minister then, but well, I mean for the state administration and the local administration, I guess you meant it, I know that you want me to be in another area. Anyway, I thank you all and thank you for this rather constructive debate, and I'll see you next week about the second law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-30-0.u12556	I hereby conclude the review of the draft law on elections for the President of the Republic, in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, December 3, 2007, at 10:00 p.m., as voter's Day. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much for this work. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Monday.
