ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5721	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 members of the Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 88 MPs present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Nenad Canak, Riza Halimi and Pastor Balint. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES LAW You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, MP group of the Democratic Party - one hour, 16 minutes 48 seconds, MP group of the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds, MEP group G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes, 12 seconds, Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes, 12 seconds, MEP group of minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes, 12 seconds, the Vojvodjan Group - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5722	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed MPs, is before us a law that is technically but only by essence. It has special significance, because it regulates travel rules or, more simply, Serbia will get its passport for the first time. This law is a necessary trace of a new constitution and a new law on citizenship. Otherwise, travel documents, i.e. technical protection of travel documents or reliability of travel documents, are one of the essential conditions, or preconditions, for the approximation of the white Schengen visa. In addition to all other conditions, such as legal regulations, harmonisation of legislation, readmission, political and economic stability, and technical protection of the travel document is one of the preconditions. Reasons for passing the law. This law harmonises the existing regulations on travel documents, the so far law on travel documents of Yugoslav citizens, from 1966, with new constitution, law and international standards in this area. The right to travel is based on citizenship and the constitutional principle that everyone has the right to move freely and live in Serbia, leave Serbia and return to it. This law can only be limited by law if it is necessary to conduct criminal proceedings, protect public order and peace, prevent the spread of infectious diseases and defend the Republic of Serbia. That is why this law deals with issues of technical character, meaning by issuing travel documents to domestic citizens by competent authorities. By passing a new law, we will be given travel documents, as I said, with the state features of the Republic of Serbia. The conditions for the introduction of a new form of travel documents are met, which guarantees, first of all, the reliability, inviolability of the personal data contained in the document, the prevention of possible misuse of documents and provides a quick and simple identification of the individual. New travel documents, which will be passed under the new law, create conditions for the easier travel of our citizens abroad, without certain obligations, since world recommendations and standards on travel documents are accepted. It is also of little importance in the fight against international crime, which also knows no borders. The adoption of this law is in line with the Action Plan for harmonising regulations with the regulations of Europe, the European Union, and one of the recommendations foreseen for countries covered by the accession and integration process. I'd like to say something very briefly, only about some essential parts of the law. The number of travel documents is reduced, the common passport is abolished, as well as the possibility of enrolling the child in the passport of one of the parents. That means everyone who travels abroad will have a personal passport. Exit visas are lifted, and the exit visa is only required for the entry into the shipping or maritime book, which is why these documents accept character and can serve as travel documents, which has not been the case so far. Because of the unique procedure and technology, the passport will only be made in the country. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the diaspora, a request to issue passports will be able to submit through the diplomatic-consular representation. It will be easier to issue travel documents. The evidence to be submitted will only be submitted at the time of the first request, and the citizen holding the new ID card will submit only the application. One newspaper is scheduled, and that is the protection of the right to travel. Protection will be provided in the administrative procedure and will be two-degree, but not within the same authority. Travel document validity deadlines decrease from ten to five years, and this is due to rapid technological changes in the area of automatic data reading. The issue of new passports, i.e. new travel documents, is projected to begin from the beginning of the application of the law, i.e. six months from the date of entry into force of this law, which means that all passports will be replaced by 31 December 2008. In short, about this law so much. I'm sure you've all read the bill, and now we're expecting a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5723	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the representatives of the committees want the word, the Defence and Security Committee - Mr. George Mamula, and the Legislative Committee - Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Thank you. Did the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic, Jadranka Vukovic, Milorad Buha, Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic, who at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Ms. National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion, as well as other fellow Serbian radicals, because of the fact that Police Minister Dragan Jocic was not at the Committee's session that day, so he could not give us concrete answers on behalf of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding our concrete objections to the draft legislation on travel documents. That's why they didn't get the conditions to discuss the draft law in particular that day, and I believe we'll do it tomorrow on the Committee. The Serbian Radical Party, as the most serious political party in Serbia, although currently the opposition, has taken business on new travel documents seriously. Unfortunately, after a separatist referendum that took place on 21 May last year and the vote of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are in a position to do a lot of work. That order of moves that this government was supposed to make, as far as these sessions and all the previous ones are concerned, i.e. non-voting of the law referred to in Article 5. The constitutional law and the coming to the agenda of this law, which also stems as a newly created obligation, from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, gives us the right to make concrete amendments and remarks, because this law is not merely technical. It is very important, because every citizen and all Serbs who receive citizenship, I hope that, Mr. Minister, you have thought well and that at the stage of accepting this amendment to the 16th Law on Citizenship, therefore, when all these conditions are obtained and when they get into the hands of the travel document of the Serbian state, they must know that this document is absolutely impeccably done, that all the jobs, and the decision of the MPs on the making of the document, the travel documents to which someone should travel beyond the borders of this country, have been done in the best possible way. We don't think that's the case here. First, because of the fact that you had no reason at all, Mr. Minister, to run away from what Serbia's passport should look like. These days, a lot has been speculated in the public that only 11% of Serbian citizens have a travel document, including many media, and especially those who are in the service of hijke and haranga against everything that is Serbian, national, that I do not mention them now, are foolishly commenting that people did not want to misjudge who had these features; what they will do when they cannot travel. First, I must remind you that in a campaign for the president of Serbia, Boris Tadic himself has promised that our country will be on the white Schengen list. On the other hand, you need to ask yourself, you who are talking about how this is the biggest problem, whether people, in general, have the resources for a normal life and whether they bought bread today, milk, whether they paid electricity bills, because it's primary. Only after that will they think about what certain politicians and still the current president of the Republic are saying about putting the country on the White Schengen list. It's not a top priority for millions of people in this country. As soon as they are due to go to the Ministry of the Interior and ask for a travel document, then they need to know in advance whether we MPs have given good thought when we have adopted certain provisions in this law or not. Such laws are being considered in a serious state and in serious governments for a very long time. The example works, see, counterpart Mirovic is a witness to such a case when it comes to the Russian Federation, following the collapse of the Soviet Union. Such similar laws, which identify citizens, see, through travel documents, have two or three readings before they come before the MPs. The minister just said - you've all studied it well and you have a law ahead of you. I'm not so sure about that, Mr. Jocic, maybe your DSS guys are, but I don't think they all are. First, the question is how many people at this point are on the parliamentary benches of the travel document law, and on the other hand, the question is how many people have thought and entered into the very essence of what was to be changed and what was not good. The deadline for issuing new travel documents is for disabling everything in Serbia, as you do by not adopting the law of the Constitutional Law since the formation of this government, which is being scrapped from the stake and rope. You have no reason at all, Mr. Minister, to place six months as a deadline for submitting new travel documents. Why? If the services have done their job well, it is not good that only you know and that it stands in a member of the law that the minister determines the pattern of the new passport. We have to say that we Serbian radicals, that I'm not getting into the details right now, that's exactly what we wrote, because we know what the national features look like. We know what the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, what dimensions they are, by all standards, and which marks and which languages they must stand in the pathway of a state. Why would the minister do that in some sublaw, there's no reason to do that. So you should think about it and let this session end with the adoption of this law. One more thing. We think, given the fact that people with expectations have looked at you, both as ministers, and in the government, what kind of law will be proposed and that it's not just a technical matter, let's now, for the sake of those over 11% who will first go to take a passport and ask for it by procedure from the Ministry of the Interior, not to limit it to this deadline, but to 10 years and make it easier for them to do so. That, of course, will explain everything through the amendments that follow. A very serious political group of the SRS has been considering the bill. Neither these, nor numerous other amendments, which are technical on the appearance of the technical nature, are essential, because we think that this law should be one, so for all time, and not to change and intervene in it over a few years. Now we need to do everything right, absolutely accurate and clear, to make it easier for the citizens to get to the travel document as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5725	Thank you to the MP, Miss Natasha Jovanovic. Do any of the MPs who want to take their opinion want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is Bozidar Delic, and the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Djordje Mamula. I give my word to Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5726	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a law that cannot possibly be technical, as Mr. Minister says. This is, right now, about one fundamental law, which for all the citizens of our country has an extraordinary meaning. I, reading this law and participating in the work of the committee that discussed this proposal, intimately expected the minister to bring and show, to us, to the MPs, what the form of the new passport looks like. Then the bill might be more acceptable to me. Since it was not there, he is not acceptable to me, nor to the other members and MPs of the SRS. Gentlemen, I have two passports in my hand. This red passport is a passport of a country that has long gone and that, especially for the Serbian people, as well as the whole of that period, will be recorded by many ugly things, which we feel today. This is a passport with which citizens of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia could travel around the world. He was highly respected in all countries, and was especially appreciated in those with whom Mr. Jocic has problems and who fall under his jurisdiction, because he was very expensive and popular among the members of these groups. This is the second passport, which has been outlived by three states and which, if we accept this bill, should be replaced. Of course, we all agree that we can no longer travel around the world with a travel document that no longer exists. Why am I saying this is a fundamental question? Traveling, on various occasions, across Europe, I've seen how people treat passports. It's the only travel document they have and show in any country. I see how some do it with pride, because when they show that passport and the coat of arms of their country, if it is America, Russia, Germany, England or France, you see the citizen immediately, and the state he represents, or his passport. I know that all of us who are in this room, like every citizen, believe that we should have a modern passport, a passport that will meet all valid standards in Europe and the world and that will allow equal treatment of all our citizens with citizens of other European countries, in terms of the speed of crossing borders and customs controls. However, this does not mean that the SRS is ready to support this legislative proposal. Members of the SRS have given more amendments to individual members of this law on the committees they attended. If they were to be respected, or at least most of them, including, in particular, amendments to the article. 24, 25, 35 and 49, we would then be willing to support this legal proposal. Our first objection would be to Article 9(3), which states that a diplomatic passport may also be issued to a member of a narrow family of persons who has been issued such a passport, who lives with him in a joint household and travels abroad or stays abroad. We consider this too widespread the number of holders of the diplomatic passport. We believe that this part - 'it travels abroad', but only this part - 'travels abroad', should be expelled, because family members living in a joint household with that person and abroad should have a passport, but not even members of a family household who, at some point, also travel abroad. The following remark, on the basis of which we also provided for the amendment, refers to Article 19 and is related to the period of validity of the passports. The passport is scheduled to be valid for five years. We believe that the deadline provided for in Article 20 of the current law, a period of 10 years, is more acceptable and should remain in a new solution. I stress that when adopting legal solutions, we must also make sure that Serbian citizens have to replace their valid passports as far as 31 December 2008, as provided for in Article 53 of the proposed legislative solution. It is all a financial burden for citizens, and therefore it is necessary to avoid the obligation to replace them every five years. We also asked Mr. Todorovic for an explanation, and he told us that the period of validity of the passport is linked to the period of validity of the ID card. I don't think it stands, because these are two different documents, provided for in two different laws. Confirmation of my words will be obtained if you read Article 30 of this proposal, where it is said that, with a request for a travel document, you will be placed on the identification card or other document from which identity can be determined. This morning we heard from Mr. Minister a completely different explanation - that the five-year period of validity is related to the technological advancement of biometric chips. It's certainly a more acceptable solution. However, in Europe, everyone working on it, including us, we need to make sure that the technology that we're going to introduce next year is the one that is currently the most modern, so that we don't have to change passports in five years, just because it's a financial burden for citizens. We have specific objections to Article 24(2), which stipulates that the passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, passport and visa form is prescribed by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Why are we passing a travel document law if we didn't predict with it what that travel document would look like, what would it contain, what do I think is most important? Why do we, and I've noticed that it's become a practice, we transfer our powers to anyone, if it's not necessary, and in this case it's not? Why do we put this proposal to the Minister of the Interior, by means of a regulation, to prescribe the appearance of passports, and this regulation is a legal act at a lower level than the laws we adopt? How, gentlemen, if the citizens ask you tomorrow if you've passed a law on a new travel document and what does that travel document look like, you'll explain it to the citizens? This solution is not practical, because, formally and legally, it allows every new minister to change the look of our passport. If that were to happen, we should not blame the minister in any way, because we have proposed a solution in Article 24 that allows it. Others can say that it is a practice with us and that it is also foreseen in the current law. Now let me tell you right now that the current law does not stipulate who determines the appearance of a passport form, and it could, among other things, be in art. 29 and 30, in particular in Article 31. Since the bill comes from the Serbian government, and in its immediate preparation, the interior ministry is most engaged, which is why, in the end, the Minister of the Interior is present, I believe it is a hoax to us MPs, to blancally empower the minister to determine the appearance of the passport. I don't think it's correct for the minister to use this proposal to empower himself on something he doesn't have a right to, and we don't have to fall for it. If this is not corrected, it may be a reason for the SRS not to vote in favour of the bill. I would like to point out that on two committees, we've turned our attention to this position in Article 24 of the proposed law, but it looks like we're playing deaf phones. They don't respond to our warnings from the government, and they put the same proposal before the Assembly. This all confirms that this government does not respect the Assembly and considers it a pendant or a simple transmission of its will. Perhaps we have the most important objection to Article 25, which speaks of automatic data readings and protective elements. Even the existing law, in Article 30, gives a more complete overview of all data for the purposes of automatic reading. In Article 25 of the proposed legislative solution, it has been said that all types of our passport contain space for the purposes of automatic data reading, in which visible alphanumeric data are entered on the document, as well as the protective elements prescribed by the Minister of Interior. Again, Mr. Minister himself is giving himself too much authority, and we should nominate it by raising our hands or pressing the button at a computer vote. Gentlemen, I must tell you that this is a fundamental issue, which is being held in Europe and in the world by public debates and by various declarations. Many European countries have already introduced machine-readable travel documents before they have introduced the appropriate security architecture of their protection and thus drastically reduce the safety and privacy of their citizens. Therefore, in September 2006, a Budapest declaration on machine-readable travel documents was made. I propose that MPs read the contents of this declaration, because it will help them determine when voting on the proposal for this law. Also, last year and this year several demonstrations of data theft or chip break-in were carried out for frequency identification from a certain safe distance. Not to engage now, at the beginning of this debate, in particular, we consider it, and we have proposed, through the amendment, that our passports, in the machine reading work, must have data that must meet the ICO standards, or, let me put it more clearly, standards prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. We believe that, for the sake of greater security, our passports should be equipped with contact reading chips or, if this is about these frequency identifications, they should be chips that are read up to a maximum of 10 centimeters away. We also predicted additional protection, as it does in modern passports, from a network of metal fibers in the cover, which provide the effect of Faraday's cage and protect data in the passport from unwanted reading. Mr Todorovic, in front of the MUP, represented the bill before the committees of the Serbian Parliament. He's a lawyer, he couldn't tell us anything more concrete about the technical details of the chips and the passport-reading device, but he said our passports would be able to read through the reader. I want Mr. Minister to give the characteristics of these chips and these devices, because if what Mr. Todorovic says is true, it is one of the safer ways to read passports and store data in them, but then there is a question that the minister also needs to answer. Whether our passports will be compatible with modern readers, already used in European countries, because they also have readers who only pass by and readers with direct contact, i.e. Are we going to have those readers running through the passport? I would ask Mr. Minister to give us the type, type, technical characteristics of the chips that are being built into our passports and to explain to us the way in which these data will be read, whether by direct contact, whether only by radio frequency identification or by dragging through the reader. If Mr. Minister can't tell us these characteristics, I don't know who else could do it, so I think further discussion, especially about this member, would be groundless. Given the rapid obsolescence of the elements of this technology, we think that the law should highlight the safety of the requirements that must be met by embedded chips and give the possibility for the MUP to monitor the development of this technology, with the aim of better protecting the data of our citizens. Also, in this article, we have added a new position to enable, as provided for in Article 43. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that any citizen can gain insight into the data contained in his chip, i.e. the space for automatic reading from Article 25. As for Article 35, which concerns the refusal to issue a travel document, we believe that point 3 should be deleted, which says: "If the person requesting the issuing of a travel document is in accordance with a recognised international act of travel." This is not clearly defined and restricts the rights and freedoms of citizens, i.e. It's the opposite of the spirit of the Constitution. Here, of course, exceptions should be provided if this is a restriction due to sickness, epidemic or criminal activity, but then it should be emphasized differently. Let's say, one hypothetical example. Again, to mention the city most mentioned in our country, and certainly the most detestable name for a city - The Hague. A large number of our citizens are put on the list of suspects by an institution in the city. Is it, gentlemen, that someone put a citizen on the list of suspects should be a limiting circumstance, that that citizen does not travel outside our country? After all, as these lists spread, all of us may, someday, become suspicious. On the basis of this, if the erasure of this point 3 is adopted, the same correction should be in Article 37. We also believe in Article 49, which speaks of the delivery of data to the foreign body, beyond point 3, as referred to in Article 43. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be added to a new member, i.e. a position which obliges the data authority to notify the person whose data is supplied to the foreign authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5727	Thank you, Mr. Delic. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, then Vladan Batic, then Petar Jojic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5728	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, these are Articles 136, 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure. I believe that at the beginning of this principle debate it is necessary to clarify some issues, in order to be able to direct the debate, that we simply would not knock on the open door. What's this about? I think that MPs must be made clear whether there are categories under this law -- diplomatic visas, because, reading the provisions of this bill, especially from Article 14, and in particular Article 22, I get the impression that diplomatic visas have been abolished, because there is no provision for the period of validity of diplomatic visas. Why am I asking this question? To make it clear to the public immediately, not because of certain privileges of those receiving a diplomatic or official passport, but because of the fact that various types were able to obtain a diplomatic passport from October 5th. Since I have been officially travelling abroad, I have had the opportunity to see those carriers of the diplomatic passport SRJ, so now Serbia, in the short-pantroom halls of the airport, a bit of a drink, and perhaps a little bit of joy in another way, and I believe that such persons are violating the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. I agree that someone has issued a diplomatic passport to them, with a five-year period of validity, it is a mass radio Svilanovic in its own time, but diplomatic visa is a means of limiting such behaviour. Practically, a diplomatic visa allows the use of a diplomatic passport and I get the impression, and I listed these provisions, that you have now thrown it out of the law. The practice is for the foreign ministry to issue a diplomatic visa to a diplomatic passport holder for three months, some for six months, depending on needs, obligations, etc. This diplomatic visa concerns, above all, the holders of diplomatic passports, and there is another visa, which is for the holders of official passports. You have resorted to another formulation in article 22, so it is not clear that it is an official passport; the travel document holder, the official travel abroad, you have written something similar, and I think we need you to explain whether the category of diplomatic visas is still in the law. Unless it stands, whether it allows for the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic-Consular Relations or, in general, what it is. I believe that diplomatic visas should remain, in order to correct themselves, I have set an example of these mistakes at the beginning, due to some merits of the five-octobarics. Various actors, journalists, etc., received this passport, even on TV boasting that they had this passport, but I tell you right now, I am an eyewitness, there are more people who were in parliamentary delegations, we met them at airports in short pants, with Japanese women, coming back from Portugal, getting drunk, waving passports, they can do anything. In return, I'm going to give you another example, an example of one minister, I'm not going to say the name, which has experienced severe discomfort because he had a diplomatic passport -- open his luggage and so on. Simply, our diplomatic passport, Mr. Jocic, no one abroad cuts for anything. I know the SMIP is betraying him, but you're passing a law that needs to prescribe a period of validity of a diplomatic visa. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about the foreign ministry criteria. In this law, it must stand as much as a diplomatic visa, are you going to say, three months, six months, a year, it doesn't matter to me, but this law has to contain it. Mr. Grouchy, you won't mind me, another intervention, I wouldn't answer again. Mr. Jocic, when you define what a first-degree body is, what a competent authority is, when you define the actual jurisdiction, please don't use the formulation -- police administration, police station. Please state the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know how the Balinian let you out of this law, it shouldn't be in the law. You can't go into small intestines that the police station will betray what. The Ministry of the Interior is a competent authority. Under that authority, a first-degree, second-degree procedure and protection must be ensured before the Supreme Court of Administrative Dispute. You don't need to do that without me reminding you that you haven't returned my jeep yet. You were once cancelled for the jeep because you had a secret act on job systematization and organisation at the Ministry of the Interior. That's not allowed either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5729	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5730	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 225. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and refers to Minister Jocic. The question that I think is the previous issue of the debate on travel documents is why it has not been done before and why we experience such humiliations when we meet at airports in a foreign country, where you have counters for citizens of the European Union and for those who are out, who are mostly citizens, more or less, since all other candidates for the European Union, have white Schengen and have privileged status. There, Malten, are only citizens of Serbia, with the passport of the previous state. There is no SRJ for more than four years, almost five years, and that country in which people at the head of this government swore and promised to strengthen and strengthen it, so-called. The SCG community, maybe it's the only country in the world that didn't have a passport. So, when we appear now, we citizens, or citizens of Serbia, travel with a passport from the previous state. Why hasn't it been done so far? Fifteen months since Serbia, by the will of the citizens of Montenegro, became a sovereign state. Why doesn't he have his passport? Or there was still hope of making a new Yugoslavia. Next question for the minister. Why is he waiting so long? Why six more months? Why until the end of next year? So, seven years after the cease-fire of the SRJ, our citizens will appear at the border with the passport of the SRJ. It really doesn't have any excuse. It was time for the MPs to see what that passport would look like. When this whole story is over, there's one question that's far more important than this. Given the state in which this country is located, where will the citizens of Serbia, when they finally get a passport from Serbia, travel with this passport? This is the main issue, because we see that, despite the great promises that we will come to the White Schengen list, there is nothing of it, there is nothing to sign an association and stabilisation agreement, and its signing is not until Mladic's extradition. Therefore, citizens, especially young people, students, and 80% of them do not have passports, instead, offer barbecues, sausages, cabbages and various other fairs, bread and games; what you have to go to the white world to see modern people live in the modern world. So that's the problem. Let's discuss this issue and this issue, which is much more important than form, but, as a DHSS MP at the LDP Parliament Club, of course I will vote to finally get Serbia a passport, that this first humiliation at least overcomes it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5731	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5732	Ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question and ask for an answer. Mr. Vice-President, I ask that this issue be forwarded to the competent ministry and that as a member of the SRS, I be given a complete and complete answer. I ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the bay system in our country after the change of regulations and the arrival at the head of Mrs Dulic's ministry, who was the Minister of Agriculture? Where are the gulf systems recorded, and the gulf systems represent a huge state value? If the agricultural company was sold, and today it became private, is there somewhere in the Catastrian and other public books, a Gulf System recorded and what is it worth? Why isn't it shown and why isn't it evaluated when buying individual companies? It's a huge value and a large number of our country's gulf systems. They exist today, but they're deleted, they're not registered anywhere, according to my knowledge, so I'm asking for an answer, to see if I'm right, and if I'm wrong, to hear a valid answer, with a complete explanation. If he didn't enter the contract to buy or rent agricultural land known as '99 years', let's see who that tycoon is and who that profiteer who came to the agricultural land for 99 years, that he uses it so much, and also uses a water system that didn't even come into the price. Second my question, Mr. Vice President, is also to forward to the government's competent ministry. How many owners and customers in Serbia are from Croatia and Slovenia today, namely, what properties they bought, at which price they made purchase contracts, contract annexes. My next question will be to give SRS MPs information on how many Serbian citizens have bought the property of any kind in Croatia and who are these people, or did the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the government in Croatia allow any Serb to buy real estate in its territory? The next question is similar - how many companies and individuals from the Republic of Slovenia who bought real estate in Serbia, and how many real estates did our citizens in Slovenia buy? I ask this question, on behalf of the SRS, for the sake of balance in international relations between these countries, to see if the discredited citizens of Serbia and Serbs who intend to buy real estate in Croatia and Slovenia, what advantage now are citizens and businesses from Croatia and Slovenia and that citizens from Serbia, based on reciprocity, cannot buy real estates in these countries under the same conditions. Next my question. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking a question and I'm looking for an answer - under what conditions and how did the Agricultural Enterprise PIC "Tamish", Panchevo, sell 400 hectares in the populated town of Ivanovo, and who is the buyer? Did the buyer falsely introduce himself, did the buyer fictitiously from Serbia and, in fact, the owner of the property become Slovenian from Slovenia? It's a big deal. That's why I'm asking, Mr. Vice President, I know you're a responsible man, to forward these questions and to get answers to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5733	The People's MP Nikola Žutić has the word, and then the MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5734	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 226. I ask the Minister of Justice if he intends to adapt the Law on Courts of 2001 to the provisions of the new constitution? Namely, there are many inconsistencies and discrepancies. Under the 2001 law, the education of municipal courts, district courts, the Court of Appeal, the administrative court, as well as the Supreme Court of Serbia are foreseen. In this law, the three-step trial is foreseen. However, the Court of Appeal was not established, so in practice it remained two-stage court proceedings. On the other hand, today's constitution does not mention any of these courts except the Supreme Casation Court. That's not the happiest name for a third-degree court. There's one important, part-time, "and" ally missing. He's supposed to be called Supreme Court and Cassation Court. It is known to the lawyers that the Supreme Court has a judicial office, while the Court of Cassation has the capacity to cassation, i.e. the nullification or approval of court decisions. I ask the question of the Minister of Justice, whether the Court of Appeal will be educated, with departments in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, or whether a new, better said, old Supreme Cassation Court will perform second-degree functions as it has been. Today's democratic Serbia has a two-stage judiciary. That, in my opinion, is incompatible with liberal democracy. So-called The European democratic governments have been unable to draw closer to the three-step and liberal model of the judiciary since 2000. Gentlemen, Serbia's principality has already introduced a three-step judicial system. Since 1846, there has been a Supreme Court of Serbia. Since 1840, there's been an appeal court. So the trottenity is guaranteed, the district court, the appeals and the Supreme Court of Serbia. Perhaps someone today fits the present consensual, two-degree trial control. Just because of this condition, the right to appeal for one degree has been reduced. So, a question for the Minister of Justice - will a three-stage trial be conducted and the 2001 Law will adapt to the current constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5735	The People's Messenger Marko Milenkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, have you been informed, Minister of Justice, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and I know that it is, and what have you done about the citizens of the Heat District of Kursumlia, Prokuplja, Blac and Žitoraj, who were mobilized during NATO aggression in 1999, who courageously defended and defended the state, and have now experienced that they do not have the same rights, because according to the same lawsuits, they are judged differently? The number of these citizens is not small, it's 4-5 thousand lawsuits. Imagine the situation in which the judges of the Court of Justice in Kursumlia, as participants in the defence war, sued, got convictions and charged the diaries, along with their relatives, friends and fewer other fighters, and then these same judges to other fighters, on the same basis, refused the lawsuit requirements, of course, selectively, because at the same time other fighters dealt with the charges positively. Such selective application of rights has also occurred in Prokuplje. If they are, by Article 221. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all before the Constitution and the law equal, if these are the usual norms of all civilized societies, on which this kind of discrimination is being made, which causes the human dignity to collapse and causes the feeling of inequality of the people of Toplice, but also Kruševac, Nis, Leskovci, who, when was supposed to do so, pawned their lives for their country? On June 18th, these fighters protested peacefully in the centre of Prokuplje, to draw attention to themselves to react. Today, these people in Kursumlia have been on hunger strike for several days, for two and a half hours now blocking the Nis-Pristina highway, even though you're sending a cordon of police to stop them. Because it's not enough for Minister Sutanovac to send someone of his own, who, according to your old, good recipe, promises to reconsider the case, to see who received the diaries in 1999, and who now will solve the problem. That's not enough, because that check is done in two hours, and the drama in Kursumlia has been going on for several days. Our fighters who defended the state today, after the judges and the judicial administration left for work, blocked the building of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia and announced a total blockade of the Nis-Pristina road. There's something you need to understand. All these people want is to be equal in front of the law. As one of them told me yesterday, no one would've asked for a payday if the other diaries hadn't been paid off. Please, sit down, make a deal, find a way to solve the problem. Discrimination in Toplice takes a long time. This is our people, this is our country and I ask you to behave like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5737	Thank you, Ambassador Milenkovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 226 and asking a parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Labour and Employment and to the Director of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. According to data available by the Republika Srpska government in persecution, 20 are in the administrative process of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. 1,000 items relating to the exercise of the right under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Serbs Krajisnik from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia that have been expelled, which have exercised a certain right from pension or disability insurance, but because of the lack of data from pension and disability insurance of the Republic of Croatia, this fund cannot complete the procedure. This violates a number of legal regulations, in particular the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of the Republic of Serbia, the General Administrative Procedure Act and a number of other legal regulations. These procedures take years, with uncertain outcomes. Serbs who have been expelled from Republika Srpska and Croatia have been granted the right to retire, live in Serbia, cannot or can't go to Croatia, however, have not completed their procedures, thus suffering material damage. I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5739	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I want to ask one more question. Since I asked the question when it was on the agenda of the Law on Citizenship, which I did not get the minister's answer to, I will take this opportunity to repeat the same question and add some more new moments that I have learned in the meantime. Mr. Jocicu, I asked you a question -- is it true that Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Vlad Manojlovic, and his relationship, more specifically, the President of the Second Municipal Court, Ivon Lalovic, is the support in the judiciary of the Second Municipal Court of the Urban Mafia, who is harassing and ruling the municipalities of the Sava Venac, Vračar and Old Town? Is he processed, has he been talked to and the facts about his property, the apartment in the streets that I listed, it is the corner of Sanja Zivanovic and the Banjic victims, the car and all the other property covers he now owns? Is it true that the president of the Sava municipality, whom I also mentioned last time, was coming out of the country with another travel document, not with Serbia's travel document, because he is in the process, more specifically, under investigation? Is it true that large amounts of money have been found at the border crossing between Montenegro and Croatia? I asked you to give me these answers. I know for a fact that you already have these answers. I asked you to deliver them to me because it took away what was done in these three municipalities and throughout Serbia. The money is being made out of the country, and the resolution ministry is neither responding nor giving any answers, not even to MPs who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have asked the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5741	Thank you, Mr. Avramovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Djordje Mamula, authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Nova Serbia, Dr. Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5742	The existing travel documents law is called the Law on travel documents by Yugoslav citizens. Yugoslavia is no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no, no more, no, no, no, no, no more, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This law is from 1996 to 2007. 11 times changed, so that these changed, not fundamentally, led to the fact that, however, this area, as a very important area, which enters the internal affairs sector, office and obtaining a modern, modern travel document law. Otherwise, the area is very important, because it touches the issue of human rights. Earlier, 20 years ago, the Law on Travel Documents contained a norm by which the competent authorities did not have to give at all reasons why they were denying someone a travel document. The final resolutions could not be governed by the administrative dispute, so that for the first time in the 1996 Law on travel documents, a clear provision arose that the competent authority must clearly state the reasons why it refuses a travel document, or why it restricts human rights. However, here it is said that the law is a legal-technical character and that it contains all those parts that contain typical travel documents laws. In the Defence and Security Committee, this law was adopted by 15 present MPs, nine voted for, no one was against, no one was abstentioned, and several MPs singled out, and this was stated by Mr. Chairman. In the travel documents section, it is clearly defined what it said earlier, that the travel document is a public document and that there are several travel documents that serve to get Serbian citizens out of Serbia, stay abroad, prove identity and return to the country. Travel documents are defined passport, travel document, official passport and passport - for those citizens who have found themselves abroad without a travel document or have lost their passport, so they can return to the country. What is essential in this law is that the country's competent state authority can only issue travel documents and finally abolish exit visas. No more exit visas. True, in practice, this has not been an obstacle since 1996, but it is important that the concept of exit visa be abolished. As far as the period of validity is concerned, it is reduced to five years, when it comes to travel documents, or passports, of an official passport. For children, the passport is valid for up to two years, and for the passport, the period of validity is 60 days, since it has been taken care of that our citizen can be found in the lower parts of the world and that, if he has lost his passport, it takes up to 60 days to return to the country. It was also taken care of by children to protect their interest, because of their parents. It shall be taken into account that travel children are given parental consent, except in the case of special circumstances when it is excluded. As far as biometric data is concerned, I think it's consistent with modern technical achievements. The biometric data are no obstacle to any specific illegal knowledge of a person, because only a chip that has its own power source can be the subject of learning in an illegal way. This bill should be adopted, and I would only add that it is quite understandable that the interior minister has been left to regulate certain issues, because they traditionally enter the area of sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5743	Thank you, Mr. Mamuli. On behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5744	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vojvodian MPs and MPs of the Alliance of the Vojvodian Hungarians will support the bill on travel documents if two amendments are accepted. Of course, we don't even agree with the reduction of travel documents from 10 to five years, and we're against extending travel documents from 15 to 30 days. We are particularly against extending the deadline for issuing travel documents whose applications are filed at consular offices, from 30 days to 60 days, because we consider it to be a very long time. However, since this law is one of the European laws, one of those laws that is a condition for the White Schengen List, in the event of the adoption of our amendments, we will support the bill. At the same time, I would like to remind the government that 50 European laws will be on the Assembly's agenda by the end of the year. At this point, there's only this one, and I don't think that's good. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, as regards the field of official use of language, it is the area in which there is the biggest difference between the rights on paper of members of national minorities and practices at the moment. For this reason, we have submitted two amendments to which we wish to supplement the text of the draft law, in the sense that the bill contains a provision under which state authorities would be obliged to write the names and last names of members of national minorities, i.e. enroll in travel documents in the original form. On the other hand, we ask that technical opportunities be created to do so in the future, because the right so far existed, just not in practice, with an explanation that there are no technical options. Unfortunately, in many cases, the names and last names of members of national minorities are not entered in the original form. We also suggested that the forms are requested for issuing travel documents bilingually, in those municipalities where the languages of national minorities are in official use. I think these two amendments can be supported by the ruling coalition. In that case, we would vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5745	Thank you, Mr. Varga. On behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, the word has an authorised representative, Mr Nenad Milic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5746	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the conditions for Serbia's future European integration. This, unfortunately, or fortunately, is not the only condition for Serbia's European integration, and we will soon see how sincere this government's intentions are for the path to European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration, as we hear today and these days, are indeed true and how technical. Given that this law is technically, as the minister said, LDP will support it for those reasons, as well as because this law will make it easier for our citizens to travel to Europe and all other countries of the world. I have a few technical questions. Of course, we think, like the other parliamentary groups, that 30 days as a deadline for issuing travel documents is extremely and needlessly long. On the other hand, law enforcement starts in six months from the day of adoption, which means somewhere in March of the month, while the deadline for replacing all travel documents is the end of 2008. It means we have about nine months to replace all travel documents in Serbia. In some framework account, if only half of our citizens have travel documents, we will come up with a figure of over 10,000 travel documents a day to be issued by the MUP. My question for the minister is, has the Ministry prepared themselves for such a technical part of the job and is this going to lead to a terrible crowd, are we going to harass citizens even more? Besides making them pay for the replacement of these passports, will they have to stand in endless ranks and wait 30 days to replace their passport? In addition, in Article 35, paragraph 1 is about refusing to issue travel documents. I agree with my previous colleagues who have spoken of this law as important in the field of human rights, and the most delicate part is the part that refers to the refusal to apply for a travel document. The position of Article 35 states - if the person requesting the issuing of a travel document has been given a solution to the conduct of an investigation or the indictment has been brought, a request for a travel document may be rejected, at the request of the competent court, or the public prosecutor's office. I think this provision relating to the public prosecutor's office is unconstitutional and cannot stand. The restriction of human rights can only be decided by the court. It's okay for the court to refuse to issue a travel document, but I really don't think it can stand in this law that it can be done on the prosecution's request. If the prosecution can determine who can be issued a travel document and who doesn't, then we introduce volunteerism into this area. Somewhere on the line of what I'm saying is the next member, who's contradictive with this member I've quoted. Article 36 states that courts are obliged to inform the Ministry, not the Prosecutor's Office, through police stations in whose area a designated person has residence, of the reasons set out in Article 35. If this means that the prosecution, however, cannot directly address the MUP, but rather the court, I think it is unnecessary that it stands in Article 35, because we are then setting up court proceedings and rules of conduct in the court, as the prosecution addresses the court with certain procedural requirements. It's only then that there's no point in standing in this law and there's no need, it just raises doubts and reasons for, perhaps, a different interpretation. Most of the time, for these reasons, the LDP will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5747	Thank you, Mr. Milic. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, president of the DS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5748	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party will support the bill, respecting, above all, the necessity to pass such a law, because of the fact that a new circumstance has arisen, which is called an independent, internationally recognised state of Serbia, and the need for it to have its own law to regulate its travel documents. At the same time, this is an important law for us also because of the fact that one of the conditions for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list is. That's why we think that, conditionally speaking, it's the last time this law is passed. What might be better is if we had previously had a law on the protection of personal data, because that law would regulate those issues that may not be the subject of this law, and here somehow remain as open issues, and, above all, refer to the biometric chip and the contents of the biometric chip, that is, how to protect these data and, at the same time, to the right of the citizen to know the contents of the biometric chip. In that sense, I think that, perhaps, the committee responsible, which can still submit the amendment, should submit an amendment allowing citizens to have the right to see the data contained in the biometric chip. The DS will vote for this bill and I believe that there is a possibility that this, as far as citizens' rights are concerned, will have information about what the biometric chip contains, is regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5749	Thank you, Mrs. Kulungjia. The deputy head of the SPS Group, Zarko Obradovic, reported his presentation, but at the end of the list. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS - NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, SPS and DS, a total of 17 MPs. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Milic Vojic-Markovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Mr. Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5750	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, travel documents have been issued to Serbian citizens, and today they are issued, I presume, under the current law on travel documents of Yugoslav citizens, which was adopted in 1996. This law, however, has, on several occasions, been changed to this day, but the changes have been minor and have mainly applied to the level of punishment or to the establishment of a transitional regime and have not particularly affected the essence of the previous law. In 2002, though, the amendments were more systematic and mainly applied to that part of human rights and freedoms which, in previous amendments and additions to this law, had been, in some ways, denied or restricted. As some changes also occurred on the political scene, that is, the state of Yugoslavia, including the SCG, disappeared, it was perfectly logical to put the bill on the agenda. The proposal for this law is something that, according to the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is necessary because it regulates the travel documents of its citizens and its citizens. Moreover, the new law in this area is also needed because the state of Serbia has serious intentions to engage in European integration and is very important to it to bring its legislation into line with European legislation. That is why this proposal respects all European and world standards in this area, and this bill has reached a very high level of regulation of matter, as well as in the European Union. Therefore, this law regulates travel documents for the travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad, defines what travel documents they are, in which way they can be issued both by who and how they can be obtained. The number of travel documents is reduced. It shall specify the authority to issue travel documents, as well as the time limits for the validity of these travel documents. Section V refers to the prescription of forms on which travel documents are issued, as well as the content of forms and the letter printing of the prescribed forms; it shall specify which protection elements will have the form, as well as the space for the purposes of automatic reading of data relating to visible alphanumeric data on the correcting. It's a part that's very complicated and it seems to me that the most public awareness has, exactly, according to this part of the chip reading, the data that's on it. The VI chapter provides a procedure for the issue of personal documents and addresses all issues which are essentially related to the issue of personal documents. I would particularly apostrophe here something which is a problem that is very often occurring, and lately it is spoken of both in the media and in public places, which is a question of abuse of travel documents when it comes to underage persons and persons who have no business capacity. The proposal for this law is extremely good in that part, because the abuse of these travel documents has been disabled here, because both parents have to agree and sign a request for travel documents to their children, which is very important. This prevents abuse, the violent taking of children abroad, whether it's done by one of the parents, which is often the case, whether it's done by a third party. So here we need to apostrophe and say that we need full consent from both parents to issue a travel document. It is also significant that the mandatory presence of the person to whom the travel document is issued is also envisaged, which contributes to increasing the safety and protection of the travel document. The deadlines for resolving travel documents requirements, i.e. specific rules relating to the situation where the request is rejected, when the travel document is withdrawn, and the same rules are applied accordingly in the visa issue procedure. When regulating these issues, the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have been fully respected, particularly those contained in Article 39, which concerns the rights of citizens to leave Serbia and return to it. Chapter VII lays down precise mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse in relation to travel documents and thus strengthens the security of identity and travel documents themselves. Therefore, the precise procedure is related to the disappearance and the finding of a travel document that protects the state from the possibility of abuse, i.e. an individual may initiate a re-issue procedure for the lost document only when he has completed the previous procedure by which he has notified the competent authority that he has lost his travel document even when it is invalid. In chapter VIII, it's about the records and the use of data contained in those records. I have to notice that it is also an area that is particularly sensitive and where there is doubt, I would say, and fear, part of the public that data may be misused, as there have been cases in our further or closer past. I must say, according to the Constitution, the collection, processing and use of personality data is governed only by law. Accordingly, Article 46 of the proposed law sets out the personal data to be kept and recorded on travel documents, the conditions under which these data are used and provided to other bodies for use - Article 48, as well as the conditions under which the personal data contained in the records can be supplied to foreign authorities - Article 49. So it's very precise to sort out what the conditions are and how it can be done. In cases where the provisions of this law are treated contrary to the provisions of this law, they shall be applied to criminal provisions. Monetary amounts and penalties are also in line with the applicable law on violations. The proposed solutions are in line with the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, as well as with the protection of the state and society in general against possible abuses. The transitional and final provisions shall lay down all the necessary elements relevant for the implementation of this law, its entry into force and its application. The proposal is that travel documents issued before the date of application of this law shall be valid until the time limit set in those documents and as far as 31 December 2008. This means that at one point, in the meantime, old and new travel documents will be found in use. This law is important because, in addition to the Law on Citizenship, it establishes the important regulation of our Serbian state in this area. The proposal is good because it is in line with the highest and very high standards in the field of human rights and freedoms. At the same time, it is in agreement with European legislation. The DSS-NS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- will vote for this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5751	Thank you, Mrs. Vojić - Markovic. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stevic; and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5752	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today is a very important legal project for citizens of the Serbian state, regardless of nationality. It's a travel law. Of course, this law represents a mirror, a picture of every country, including ours, called democratic states. It is high time for the state of Serbia to settle these important issues with law, given the events and processes that have been going on lately. First of all, I mean the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, the separation of Montenegro, as well as the arrival and installation of callers in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia believes that this matter should have been regulated much earlier, as the reasons for the adoption of the travel documents law existed immediately after it ceased to exist in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, given that the applicable law, adopted in 1996, regulates the right to be exercised from Yugoslav citizenship. This citizenship has ceased to exist by forming a state union, a Serbia-Montenegro community. As the SCG state union ceased to exist in the meantime, there was a need for the authorities to, as an independent state, the Republic of Serbia, in line with the obligations arising from the new constitution, to settle the issue of travel documents to be issued to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, apart from constitutional reasons, the adoption of a new regulation in the area of travel documents and regulation of this matter is another of the conditions that the state of Serbia must meet to include in some, alleged, European integration. What I particularly want to point out, which is why I came forward, is that the right to obtain travel documents is only for citizens of our country, or for the citizens of Serbia. In addition, I point out that this law is one of the few legal projects applied in the entire territory of our country, and all rights are applied to the maximum from this law. When I say this, first of all, I mean his application to Kosovo and Metohija. According to unofficial data, since KFOR's arrival, UNMIK and UNMIK peacemakers have so far been issued, more than 200,000 travel documents have been issued, which means Albanians are seen as Serbian citizens and in this case the symbols of the Serbian state on travel documents do not bother them, or only abuse these documents to exercise rights and travel around the world. When they have an interest and it suits them, they use it. Since 1990, after the arrival of the peacekeeping forces, passports have been mostly in the central part of Serbia, which means Albanians come to cities across Serbia, apply for travel documents and receive travel documents. Does anyone wonder how such co-operation can be sanctioned and how to prevent the abuse of passports and whether there is at all co-operation with UNMIK, if it is known that such co-operation in other areas, when it comes to people in Kosovo and Metohija, above all, Serbian, is almost gone and almost gone?- I'm sorry. Mr. Minister, I ask you, do you know how many cases of abuse have been discovered so far, and of the authorized persons who issue travel documents and those who use them? Just to point out, in addition to all the unfortunate events that have taken place by the Serb people, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and for obtaining these documents, they come to the central part of Serbia. To be pragmatic, the checkpoints are in cities across Serbia. The example works, a man from the Metohic section, from Peća and Đakovica, if he is inhabited in Belgrade or Subotica, must go for documents in Kragujevac or Kruševac, or in Niško Banja, or in Leskovac, which requires additional costs. Here, too, I would like to point out by speaking to the Minister, that the particular problem is so-called. parent books, which have been displaced since 1999, causing citizens and those in Kosovo and Metohija to have additional problems. What's this about? In order to get a copy of the birth or marriage birth certificate on the threshold of the 21st century, it takes at least 15 days, from the day of submission to the day of receipt of the documents, and if you want to do so in an emergency procedure or something in order, you have to pay extra. This matter, I hope, for the Ministry of the Interior and the newly formed Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija deserves special attention, special analysis and special measures in terms of the effectiveness of issuing these documents. This kind of precedent in the new history would not be so qualified that even today, the victims of persecution, Kosovo Serbs, threatened in all kinds of human rights, are not found guilty of such a situation. They've lost their loved ones, no homes, and have no chance of exercising their rights. They are even heartlessly and extremely thoughtlessly threatened to give up their territories, and some quasi-democratics, mostly from Belgrade, allow their generous gestures to degrade territory, endanger state sovereignty, and some of their stories of Serbian guilt pave the way for the independence of our southern province. So, Serbs, where the local government in Kosovo and Metohija is in Albanian hands, have no rights, have no legal freedom, have no right to return, have no right to property, to actions that are issued and given only to Albanians these days, and Serbs who have worked and created in Kosovo and Metohija have no right whatsoever. On the other hand, our authority allows Albanians to walk freely and to issue travel documents among other things. I would like to take the opportunity to remind myself that at a session on July 24th, I had used the right to Article 226 and asked several parliamentary questions. Unfortunately, to this day, I didn't get the answer. So again, I ask the Minister of Interior, and I expect an answer -- why do Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija pay double car registration and how long will they do it? They pay one registration for travel through Kosovo and Metohija, and another for travel through Serbia. Why is tax payable if the person has no registration of one of the cities in Serbia, if it is known that traffic licences, registration and driver's licenses - the Serbian Republic's MUP? The SPS advocates abolishing tax on taxable persons, who do not have registration to one of Serbia's cities. One more thing. Whether it's travel documents or something else, but, Mr. Minister, I ask you to stop the crowd from getting into Kosovo and Metohija through your organs and associates and exiting Kosovo and Metohija. It's incomprehensible, we don't know what's in the middle, whether it's because of these documents, whether it's because of the smuggling, but 30 of them are also going out among them are Albanians and residents of the Serbian and other national communities, when they enter Kosovo and Metohija and when they go out for Serbia. The problem is in insufficient technological, professional and material equipment of all points. Therefore, it is necessary to separate that, some cargo, or passenger vehicles, are going into special lanes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5753	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The Messenger of the people, Goran Rakovac, has the word, and the messenger of the people, Milorad Boah, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5754	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, my predecessors' discussion so far has shown unequivocally that there is more than a great need to pass the laws that are before us today, on the agenda. There are at least four reasons why this law is on the agenda today and why it is necessary to bring it. One reason is that the current law, as my predecessors pointed out, comes from 1996 and, regardless of its numerous revisions, cannot respond at this time to the needs of our citizens and our country, since, in the meantime, from 1996 to today, there have been significant and significant changes in the country itself. Namely, the 1996 law was passed at a time when Yugoslav citizenship existed, and today the Republic of Serbia is an independent state, so, accordingly, and according to the law on citizenship which we also have on the agenda of this session of the Assembly, it is necessary to bring the Law on travel documents into line with the law on citizenship that we are about to pass. The next reason is the adoption of a new constitution, i.e. after the formation of Serbia as an independent state, and the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which significantly regulates human rights matter, which, among other things, has the principle of free movement as one of the basic principles. Accordingly, the new law on travel documents should also meet these constitutional provisions. In the end, what almost everyone pointed out, so it's not against me to point out, this law is one of the pro-European laws, a law that will allow for easier integration of our country and possible arrival on the White Schengen list. So these are all the reasons why we have this law on the agenda today. I am pleased that the general mood and the opinion of most MPs here is that it is a good legal text, which, possibly with some small changes, will be adopted in this assembly, hopefully, by the great majority. The law itself, although it is pointed out that the technical character, contains a number of new provisions, which in modern terms regulate this matter, is comprehensive, it is written in good language, it is clear, reviewed, so that it will enable that large number of our citizens who need time to correct it in an adequate way and without great problems to come to, and also to state bodies that will directly apply this law, that they do not have much misunderstanding when applying it. The law itself contains 10 chapters. It therefore contains, in general, all what this type of law must contain, starting with general provisions governing the concept of travel documents, through the types of travel documents contained in it, the responsibilities for issuing those travel documents, the time limits for the validity of travel documents, the forms on which they are issued, the issuing procedure, the special obligations relating to travel documents, the records and the use of data contained in the travel documents and, ultimately, the criminal and final provisions. In view of the comprehensiveness of the matter contained in this law, I will only remain in certain parts, in particular, in general provisions, in the types and responsibilities of the issuing of travel documents. Let's start with the very idea. What our citizens are most interested in, the travel document is very clear in the general provisions defined as a public document that serves to cross the state border, to travel and stay abroad, to return to the country. In addition, during the stay of our citizens abroad, the travel document serves as evidence of their identity, since our identity cards are not valid there, as well as evidence of our citizenship. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to a travel document. That's why I'm saying that this law is closely linked to the law on citizenship, which is on the agenda of this session. Every citizen of ours can only own one travel document, which only he can use. As regards the type of travel documents, the law distinguishes seven types of travel documents, which are: passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, travel document, travel document issued on the basis of an international contract, shipping booklet and maritime booklet. So, as I said a little bit, this law fully regulates this matter; here we have all sorts of travel documents that are currently current and used. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, it is quite clear which authorities are responsible for issuing travel documents. It is the police administration, or police station of Serbia's MUP, whose area is the residence, or residence of a person applying for a travel document. If our citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is abroad, or if the request is submitted via diplomatic or consular representation, then the police administration for the City of Belgrade is responsible. If it is a diplomatic passport, it is quite understandable that this passport is issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The deadline on which travel documents will be issued in the future is repeatedly mentioned here. Until now, the deadline has been 10 years, and the new law has set the deadline for five years, with less than 14 years of age for children. I think that's a reasonable solution. Finally, I would stick with something that would also interest our citizens, which I think they should be familiar with, and these are the reasons for refusing to issue travel documents, or the reasons for withdrawing travel documents. So it's cases, first of all, of any abuse of travel documents. An application for travel documents may be refused if a decision on the conduct of an investigation or an indictment has been brought against the person seeking to issue a travel document. It should not be explained much that in some past period, we have had many abuses of passports, i.e. travel documents, and that many of the persons against whom the procedure was initiated have managed to escape the conduct of the proceedings against themselves by fleeing abroad. The reasons for refusal are as follows: ''If the person requesting the issuing of a travel document is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of more than three months, or until the sentence endures; if the person requesting the issuing of a travel document is in accordance with recognised international acts, the travel shall be prohibited; in cases that, in accordance with the applicable regulations, the person requesting the issuing of a travel document, shall be prohibited from moving for the purpose of preventing the spread of infectious diseases, i.e. epidemics; for the reasons of the country's defence. ''As for the withdrawal of travel documents, as I initially stated, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to travel documents and has the right to have only one travel document, which automatically withdraws the ban on using other people's travel documents. Therefore, the authority responsible for issuing travel documents may withdraw the travel document in cases: if the travel document has been issued on the basis of incorrect data; if its holder allows the other person to benefit from the travel document as his, therefore, if it is misused; if its holder has ceased citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which is quite logical, given that the existence of citizenship is a condition for issuing a travel document; if subsequently it is determined that the interference referred to in Article 35(1) is correct. 1) to (4) of this law on the issue of a travel document. In the end, let me start from the beginning of the discussion. As I have noticed, all speakers have highlighted the importance of this law, the necessity of its adoption. For this reason, it is indeed to be expected that the vast majority of MPs are voting for its adoption. The MPs of the DSS and the NS will, in any case, support this law in a warm way, and I point out once again, because we rarely have a chance to have such a comprehensive, well-conceived and well-written law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5755	I thank the People's MP Goran Rakovec. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a vital and important law which, together with the law on citizenship and the law on the ID card, is a system law and law that should allow the smooth flow of citizens across the border, going abroad, and that will allow other business relations between our citizens and citizens who come to our country. This law resolved the issue of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, there is one category of citizens that is not covered by it, and these are refugees. The refugees, in the process of being expelled and arriving at the premises of the Republic of Serbia, received refugee IDs. The refugee ID represents the combination of the identity card and the identity document, in which all personal data are entered for the evasive person. However, refugee legislation does not allow going abroad. According to the 2006 Refugee Commissioner, there are currently 107,000 refugees in the Republic of Serbia. So these people can't go abroad. Why is it important that these people can normally cross the state line and do jobs? There are many reasons. I'm just saying that a man who loses a narrow family member, or a wider family member, who wants to go abroad to a funeral, can't do that, because with refugee identification he can't go abroad. Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Republika Srpska, made it possible until a year and a half ago, however, can't even go there today with refugee legitimacy. What's necessary is that the MUP urgently resolves the issue. This law doesn't make it possible. According to the Refugee Commissioner, there are 107,000 refugees, and I say there are at least two or three times as many. Those who did not regulate their status did not address the Commissioner for Refugees, did not ask for help, were not registered and do not have refugee status, but have no documents either. How to go abroad, how to solve the issue of their assets, how to solve the matter of going to a funeral, a wedding, etc.? They're prisoners of this country. What is important to note is that the International Convention on Refugee Status, which we ratified in 1960, which is not an imperial nature, on the moment it enters our legislation, we must apply, i.e. Her terms. In Article 28, in the case of travel documents, the provision of this Convention says that states are obliged to issue to the refugee population a travel document allowing for the smooth crossing of the state border. On the other hand, it is called on the countries that have signed, ratified this Convention to enable the refugee population to issue a travel document based on the old documents of a Member State. We do not allow it, we have taken away personal cards, personal documents from Republika Srpska, by the refugee population from Republika Srpska, so that they do not have any documents at the moment, except for refugee IDs. By administering the MUP, and by obtaining citizenship, and by obtaining ID and travel documents, we, in the administrative procedure conducted by the MUP, are looking for documents issued by the Republic of Croatia. We are filling the Croatian budget, making life difficult for people who are otherwise in a difficult social state, without property, because their property is in Croatia, and Croatia does not allow them to use their private property normally. Because of our administration, we force people to go to Croatia, pay huge fees for obtaining documents, and in our administrative procedure we conduct everything we have implemented in the procedure for issuing refugee legislation. Why are we doubling, why are we filling the budget of the state that sent these people away by genocide? Furthermore, in the case of taxis paid in the administrative procedure for obtaining documents, this international convention on refugee status calls on states to release payments to the people who have been expelled, which is without property. In our process, refugees pay a huge tax, and they pay a tax to the state that is in hostile relations with us because it put us in such a position. On the website of the MUP, on the list of forms necessary for obtaining a travel document, there are seven documents, i.e. seven actions that need to be taken to obtain a travel document. It came to my attention that the sixth document to be sought - the application of the apartment and the birth certificate. This provision, which you have put on your site, and what the MUP is implementing in practice, is contrary to the provisions of Articles 27, paragraphs 6 and 7. In the proposal for a travel document, paragraphs 6 and 7, it is correctly stated what is necessary to obtain documents. What in the administrative procedure of reporting the apartment, what does it mean to the state authority, our state or foreign country, where is our citizen? Well, isn't that in the ID and in the request, so it's prescribed to the passport, or the second travel document. Why do we need a birth certificate? Isn't that in the ID? So these are documents that should not be delivered in administrative proceedings, and we ask people, which, again, causes certain advances to take place, as well as material costs, etc. Furthermore, as far as diplomatic passports are concerned, I would agree with colleagues from the SRS who are in favour of allowing family members not to receive diplomatic passports. Why? Well, it's not appropriate, a diplomatic passport is given only in certain situations, certain persons, elected persons, and family members, we have to agree, are not elected persons and are not doing those jobs for which a diplomatic passport is obtained. As for the time of application, I think this law would have to be applied to 1.1. The deadline of 6 months is too long and, not to complicate the situation, there is enough time for citizens to get acquainted with this reform that will enter this law, to obtain documents, and to do so in an accelerated procedure of this year. What is important is to note and what is important for the work of the MUP, these are documents issued by temporary authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, with the agreement of UNMIK, but also the position of other European countries that have recognised such documents, which is contrary to Resolution 1244, which did not allow temporary authorities or UNMIK authorities to issue such documents. Our diplomacy, our government and current government have done nothing to prevent such documents from entering Albanian, Kosovo and Metohija. The state authorities and the MUP should prohibit entry with such documents. You don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5757	Thank you. The People's MP Natasa Vučković has the word, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr Minister, I would like to point out once again that the Democratic Party, in light of our particulars, strategic and developmental, considers this law to be of paramount importance to both our country and our citizens. I mean, first of all, some of the documents we adopted in this assembly, the Resolution on the European Union's accession, as well as the Constitution itself, which we have committed to applying and respecting certain human and civil rights. For the state of Serbia, the adoption of this law is of great importance, because today, after the collapse of all common states and state communities, it is in a position to regulate the issue on its own and to pass laws on what its travel documents will look like. However, this issue is also important for us because of the second priority, which is the issue of joining the EU and, in that light, we have already considered the law in the Committee on European Integration. The law is one of the laws on the list in the Action Plan to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, which was passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the law on asylum, border management, data protection and the position of foreigners, this is one of the laws representing the set, which we expect to adopt by the end of the year, and at the proposal of the MUP. So this issue is important for our relations with the EU, because we expect to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement by the end of the year. In November, the European Commission is expected to issue an annual report on how the Republic of Serbia fulfils its obligations under the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Regulations and it is certain that by the fact that we adopted this law, if we adopt it, Serbia will get an additional positive assessment in the process. Why is this law important to the citizens and what do they get with it? First of all, they get travel documents that are much safer, so they will be treated in foreign countries in the future. Secondly, new travel documents, due to the fact that they will be able to automatically read data, will allow faster and safer crossing across the border. Thirdly, also important, in light of our European integrations, this law opens up a space for intensive negotiations on the simplification of the visa regime with the European Union, which is because of all sanctions and isolation that we have been exposed to for many years, of great importance to all our businessmen, students, scientists, cultural followers and all those who need somewhere to improve our co-operation with the European Union and with the world at all. I would like to point out a few of the questions that we have raised in the Committee on European Integration and which, as MPs at the Democratic Party's Parliament Club, we consider extremely important, which we think could have been resolved differently. The maximum time limit for deciding on a travel document application, which is 30 days, has already been mentioned. We think that deadline is too long for a few reasons. First of all, it is human rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, that every citizen can own a travel document, or that he can move freely across the border. Today, the state no longer assesses the political resemblance or any other correctness of the one applying for the possession of a travel document. So, you submit, as a citizen, a request, with a couple of documents, all these documents are computer verifiable, citizenship, residence, etc., so the question is why it is necessary to set that 30-day deadline, which actually gives the administration the possibility of a favourable treatment. We think that 30-day deadline is too long, as part of all the other efforts we make to make management more efficient, faster, to really become an efficient service for citizens. What we think is also important is how we control the automatic reading of data, or how we protect personality data. As freedom of movement is one human right, so we think that protection of personality data is another right, which must not be threatened with this first in any way. So it would be more logical, or, perhaps, better, if we could pass a law on the protection of personality data before this law, but hopefully we'll soon have a modern law on the protection of personality data that will regulate this right in detail. If there is a possibility that the Committee will subsequently, by its amendment, regulate this issue, that would be a good solution. In the end, one question that is very important, which we cannot evaluate, because it was left to the Ministry to determine later. It's a question of the tax the citizens will pay when they extract a new passport. It is certain that the financial burden of this law is on the citizens, at the very end of the line, and it is very important that the amount of these fees be such that citizens can bear it, because the fact that only 11% of our citizens now have a passport doesn't need to drag us in in that they are the ones who are the ones who can take a certain amount of tax. So, our goal is for all of them, by the end of the nine-month period, to draw out a new passport and to be more citizens who will request a new passport. So, it would be good if that tax were acceptable for all citizens. Otherwise, we will have to extend the deadline for extracting a new passport, and the worst consequence will be if we make it impossible for citizens to exercise their right to free movement with such a high tax. These were some of the objections to the law, which we point out more as some indications, important in the process of application. Otherwise, as I said at the outset, the Democratic Party, deeming this law extremely important, will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5759	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5760	At first, I would like to express my disagreement with one of the manners that is present at this meeting of the National Assembly, because I really don't know what the legitimate reasons for changing and supplementing the Law on Citizenship are looking at, and that the Law on travel documents is not changing or supplementing, but a whole new law is being passed. I think those two laws, if not in the same rank, then certainly, this one about citizenship is more important. He's also the basic law on travel documents. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow us to make up existing regulations, but, for the sake of legal order, it is much more important to pass new, original laws. I can't influence how the government has defined some laws. Now I'd pick up where I left off, when I thought I'd get some answers, but I didn't get them. The white Schengen visa, passport and possibility of travel abroad are presented to us as a road to the West. To be more specific, it's with that "winner" monument, the one that's facing that side. If it goes backwards, it's no longer a problem, it's not interesting. So it travels where it's offered. There are some other monuments, which they say, there, Serbs, define themselves, at the Horse, and that's what they said -- there's freedom, there's revolution, etc. It's a joke on the side. I remember that election campaign when one of the candidates went to the front of every embassy and was just amazed that people were waiting for a visa to travel to a Western European state. He said - I'm sorry for your pain in your legs, because you're waiting in line, and I'm telling you - if you vote for me to be president of the Republic of Serbia, I will allow you to be on a white Schengen visa. Now calculate how long it's been since that date. Are Serbs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on that list? No, they're not. What's given as a surrogate for that? It's said -- now we're going to make it easier to get a visa. I think this blonde is talking about it intensely, and when I say blonde, I mean that Tanya Miscevic, Labus, and that brother. They are now intensively negotiating the epochal national interest in improving, liberalising and allowing diplomatic representatives of Serbia to travel under easier conditions, young talented students, NGOs, etc. Of course, all those living in the interior should be thrilled with this, because Serbia is moving in huge steps towards, and now those terms are going -- stabilisation, accession, association, etc. Dear citizens, that doesn't mean anything. I, when adopting the Budget Law, advocated that, at about 500 euros each, 600 euros should be put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and allowed every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to travel abroad. What abroad? What's shown from the Monument's hand, according to the West. I am absolutely sure that when they return to Serbia after three days, they will kiss the airport, the runway, the land of Serbia and say, "I praise you God, I am back here, I can live." Some express dissatisfaction with the fact that a small number of citizens have a passport. Why would a man take out a passport if he can't travel abroad? I'll show you on my case, you won't take it as an abuse. I don't travel to Greece, because in order to get their visa, I need to prove who my grandfather is, who my grandmother is, my citizenship, where I work, why I work, who my children are, where they go to school, whether they're healthy, whether they're not healthy, whether we're capable, whether we agree or not. It's complicated for me. I love Greece, but I don't want to go as long as they treat us like that with those visas. I know it's because of Marcos yet, because of Tito, but it's my personal will. Of course, I don't affect citizens not to go to Greece. I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, I almost met a lady who told me to go on a vacation in Turkey because after 20 years of summering in Greece, we didn't give a visa based on that tourist list. There were 150 people on the list, they found her and said Maya can't get a visa. She didn't get an explanation, she didn't get anything. She says - I'm going to Turkey. Why? I give 10 euros at the airport, nobody asks me anything, it's safe, etc. I'm telling you this because of my relationship with us. Of course, we all want to change that passport, to be our symbols, etc. Now let me ask you, Mr. Minister - does this new law on the issue of travel documents mean that every citizen will be photographed in the MUP? He won't. That's what you wrote in Article 27, the last attitude, which is contrary to Article 30 of Article 2, because if you read those two attitudes you'll see that they're collapsing. Here in the 27th article is said - there must be a mandatory presence to photograph, take fingerprints, etc., and later you say, in Article 30 - it will bring a credible picture. You've got to make something right. Agree that for law enforcement. This is something to start with. I draw your attention as legislators of this law to accept the amendment of the SRS to Article 30(1), so that after saying "this law", all of this will be deleted -- "as well as other public documents proving the data contained in the request". Why? According to this regulation of yours, when a man first takes out a passport, he brings assurance of citizenship. When he changes his passport, he shouldn't bring it, but in practice, it's not like that. If you moved from one place to another, so you need to change your passport, they will also ask for a copy of the birth certificate and citizenship. Why? Because you don't have 10 years in this new place, in this place. It's a similar situation for you, and with the exchange of IDs, I don't want to tell you about the traffic, it's other problems. Why are you harassing people? A little bit of your computers, something's wrong with that. When it comes to my problems about the ID, I know what's wrong, but it happens to other people, and it's much harder for me. I don't want to repeat myself about this deadline, but I'd like to draw your attention to article 35. Article 35 needs to make it impossible for a person to get a travel document. The reasons why someone is being prevented from travelling abroad, above all, must come from Serbia. So, no disputed position 1, criminal proceedings are being conducted, Section 2 - should go to a prison sentence, but Section 3 is inapplicable. Pay attention, Mr. Jocic, why attitude 3 is inadmissible. According to 3rd, it turns out I can't get my travel papers. Why? Because I'm on a list. I know you've had some trouble formulating this. But what does "if a person is forbidden to travel in accordance with internationally-recognized acts"? When it comes to me, or when it comes to an individual, it has to be an individual legal act, it can't be some general act, or some record, or a list. Let me just tell you what it looks like in practice. I don't know how it happened, but next to Borka Vukic, I was on that list, too, so by 2005, I was banned from going abroad. However, I went normally in 2001, 2002, and 2003. This is just for political purposes, you know. I don't know what it is with an international, binding, recognised international act of forbidden travel. If it's a fight against terrorism, then a state fighting terrorism is making a solution. I don't understand, if someone's as suspicious as a terrorist in the UK and you've been given this individual solution, well, I guess you'll be arresting him, not giving him the ID, because it doesn't make sense that you're running a procedure for him to issue an I.D., and he's there at the time of the charge. This is completely illogical. Someone made a list, and that list binds you. Whether he's right or not, if there's any guilt, everything has to be solved by an individual legal act in which someone is allowed to conduct the procedure. Not to lead the proceedings against your solution that you refuse to issue a passport, but to where someone unfoundedly accused him. Why do I tell you this? Because every man is guaranteed the right to freedom of movement. It can be very limited, and it has to be interpreted in a very limited way. From the point of view of the Republic of Serbia, it can only be interpreted if there is some obligation of a citizen to the state and if there is a suspicion that going abroad, issuing a travel document, meeting that obligation can be derailed. You said in one of these articles - unless the court again applies in six months to extend that measure, that measure ceases and a passport is issued. You're counting on giving a higher guarantee to an individual who's not allowed a passport, and you're actually changing thesis. Why? All trials must be completed within a reasonable period. There is absolutely no logic that someone has received criminal charges, the prosecutor filed a request for an investigation, though, under the new law, now it will be all with the prosecutor, now the other regulations go, but if we go back to these regulations that are still being applied today, meaning, a request for an investigation is being filed, and it is being held for five-six years, within the limits of the prescribed limitation period; a man comes, they say – well, he can't, there's been some procedure. We'll tell the rest of the remarks when they're on the agenda for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5761	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Vlatko Ratkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5762	Mr. President, Mr. Aligrudic, allow me to welcome Mr. Minister with his associates, Mr. Boycic from the gallery. He was a better guy when he was here, then he was corrupted by the police there. To return to this congregation here, no one can misbehave. It's not Mr. Vlatkovic at the session of the Legislative Committee, it can't begin, I don't give the quorum. And this one for culture is broken, because I'm out, you don't have a quorum again. So you know how things are with this authority of yours. That's the way things are with the quorum and most of them. A few important questions treat this law. First of all, I think it's high time we had normal travel documents, and we didn't have this, what are the remarks of colleagues who express them, that on the cover of the travel document he would write us the name of the non-existent state, but that what is in the cover corresponds to our identity and the needs of the international rules that apply in this area. When I talk about this, I'm always starting to assume -- who has a problem with a complicated procedure. They have a problem with criminals, hohstapplers, law-playing people, who have a double or triple identity, who use travel documents to accomplish something that they don't normally have a right to. In that sense, excessive concern for one complicated procedure is here unwitting assistance to those whose travel documents serve something else, not to record the international position of foreign citizens in another country, crossing the border, entering things and various other issues. There's not a lot of objections about that. We can talk about details, what's here for someone controversial and what's not. We used to say, in various other laws, that it would be good for every law to say that any act or form is prescribed by the Ministry, although I have to say that in practice it comes down to the same; when it says - the Ministry, usually the Minister will say - this can or can't. Since we know how things work, we don't need to insist on this right now, because obviously, one minister can't prevent his will from being, among other things, in what the cover of the passport looks like. I understand the concern, it's possible that while this minister has little to worry about, but if, for instance, he were Mr. Sutanovac, then I'd be very concerned about what that passport would look like, since he has different ideas. I know he wanted to be a police minister, I see, these days he's lining up officers outside the federal assembly. I have to say that I had a better opinion of the officers, but what to do now is the way it is, a man can't choose when he's not most. What is particularly interesting here, in this biometric data, which has been discussed in our public, is the negative Serbian Orthodox Church, Serbian court, independent intellectuals and others. I spoke on this subject at the Security Committee, so I'll remind you. This is not the ministry and it is not the minister's fault, although I am not his lawyer, the equipment for this was obtained by Dusan Mihajlovic and paid for it by countless treasures. I don't know if it's 150 or 300 million marks, but it's this motorcycle, that's what this affair was called. He didn't just do it, but he hooked up with a board on the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, and there's no state symbol. I now ask Mr Jocic to liken this board to the state symbols of the Republic of Serbia. So, to take off the old one and put on a new board, because Dusan Mihajlovic has different, let's say, ambitions, from buying these ZIP lighters by 17. 1,000, so to these motorolas, equipment, etc. So, now we have a dilemma -- whether to use this equipment that Dule bought so quickly, a few days before the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, so he avoided this complicated procedure of public procurement, but rather, domestic, motorola, track -- hunting, track -- motorola, a lot of the Ministry of Equipment, or let's say -- we're not going to do it; it's almost like this Davinić satellite, it's almost there somewhere around, it's dragged through the needle's ears. The Socialist Party of Serbia will declare this law when Zarko Obradovic, the head of our club, speaks about it at the moment until Chief Dacic returns. Mr. Dacic has gone to carry out very important state issues, as those in power simply do not come from these local topics. That's what I wanted to tell you, since you're asking. Some of what is the subject of this law has already been the subject of the Police Act, so it is simply not possible not to apply the provisions of the Police Act, and they, among other things, refer to these biometric elements. We'll see if there's a government regulation suspending this thing or not, he'll talk about it brightly. It is important for us that Serbian citizens realise the possibility that, in accordance with their needs and capabilities, they travel around the world, that they have a travel document that will not make them more complicated at border crossings, at customs or in other similar procedures, and that this draws us closer to that world that we call modern and democratic, to the extent that it does not harm our national interests and our country. That's very difficult, because, you saw, yesterday or the day before yesterday, the DSS changed its political agenda and said, "We're not going to NATO." What he's copying from the SPS, it's not bad, but just so it's known that it was written there, they didn't have to have people come to the Sava Center and talk about it, so they pleaded. So the SPS programme says it is for European integration without Euro-Atlantic integration. I congratulate the DSS because it always prescribes from those who know better and more about it, and I hope that it will be a state policy, unless the citizens of Serbia declare it in a referendum, which would be desirable in this situation. It's a brief review of these few days and these several events. Dr. Zarko Obradovic will say that we will vote on this. I believe that the Socialist Party of Serbia, as a modern party on the left, has shown its programme position over several legal solutions over the past few weeks, and I believe that this statement will also be on that same course. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to tell you this. I congratulate the Democratic Party of Serbia on this programme innovation related to Atlantic integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5763	Thank you. I would like to congratulate all MPs on their constructive work. I hope Mr. Baralic will now join these committees, give them a quorum, so the Assembly will work and the committees will work. The word is Mr. Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5764	Mr. Dulic, unlike you, I'm not joining anything, I'm doing my job. So, you occasionally join the MPs and choose to honor us here with your presence. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia go to all committee sessions, even when it shouldn't, because, let's say, it's on the agenda of the Committee on Culture -- the 2008 Culture Budget Projection. At this point, Serbia's budget has less than 1% of its gross national product, which sets Serbia into uncultural countries in the world. So, I'm going to make a constructive contribution to overcoming these "Jades" in Serbia and to the manifestations of what "The Mokranjce Days" are like, or, say, the Chamber in Trsic, not being funded by other ministries, or sponsors, whose money I'm very sick about, because it's a condition that they finance it, that they take pictures on big television and that the varoch finds out that they've just helped such a manifestation. That's why I'm going to help make it go away, so, even if I give the quorum, I'm going to risk a party sentence. Thank you, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5765	I thank you for your efforts. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5766	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, to all citizens who are watching the Assembly right now, since Mr Baralic has started this topic on culture and whether an increase in the cultural budget for 2008 is proposed, I would say that, according to what we have heard, we belong to the uncultural countries. Of course, it should increase the culture budget, which is small, but, more importantly, what's more important, is how that culture budget should be allocated, so that it doesn't happen, as so far, that it is incorrectly deployed. So, first of all, before we even talk to the Committee on Culture and Information about raising the budget for culture, we need to take account, and the Ministry of Culture, of some elemental things, which is the adoption of some basic laws that should apply in culture. The adoption of these laws and the protection of artists does not require money, but requires a clear conscience and much greater collegiation than so far. Why do I say-- much greater collegiation? Because in the last few years, we have had actors as representatives of culture in the congregation benches. We had the Minister of Culture, too, the actor, we now have the Minister of Culture, also, the actor, whose work, of course, I won't be able to talk about, given that he's almost put on that post. But what was missing, what bothered, what were probably acquired habits, is a lack of collegiality, and so, on the one hand, a small group is made, but a chosen, well-founded, which is called a clan, which is doing excellently and which can work and live from its work. On the other hand, as an actor, as an artist, as a man, as an MP sitting here, I must say, we have artists living on the edge of existence. When I say artists, I mean not only actors, I mean chefs, writers, painters, musicians, and especially when I'm talking about this group of artists who live hard, I'm apostrophe of independent artists, who are the most vulnerable in our country, and they're not at all taken care of. In the last few years, I haven't heard of anyone asking a question about a congregation speaker about how these people live and how they live. So I would really like, perhaps, to have the Minister of Culture, who has been appointed recently, to prejudge some things. I feel it's necessary, since no one cares about the adoption of some basic laws. First of all, a national plan should be adopted and a programme that implies the formation of national cultural councils, which would...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5767	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5768	... In fact, they directed everything about culture, and, above all, the passing of general law. Secondly, we cannot talk about raising the budget without first realizing that we need to satisfy some things, such as providing the public with work commissions that approve projects. You know, we've been in a situation, and you've probably had a chance to read in the papers, that certain funds have been allocated to some films, to some theatre performances, and we've never seen any material evidence of that. Also, national pensions. They're not very clear to me, and no one who deals with culture is clear on these national pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5769	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5770	... But I have to say, last year, 32 million were allocated to national pensions, and no one, at least I know, got a national pension from the actors. What is more important than raising the culture budget, so that if the culture budget is increased, it can be directed in the right way, is a mandatory definition of the position of an independent artist in the given social circumstances at the republican level. I have to tell you that the other day I went to Prince Michael's street and that I could buy oil on the canvas of an academic painter for two thousand dinars. Don't you think that's a shame? I think painting is something that not everyone can do, that's God's gift, but people are forced to sell a painting for 2,000 dinars to feed their family. This is, therefore, the parliamentary question of the Minister of Culture and I ask the answer, since I do not know how many years ago no one has heard and no one knows what will happen to independent artists. So, will they finally change the point of the law relating to the payment of contributions to independent artists, that their paid bases are recognised as earnings; the minimum base is like the salary of 12 thousand dinars. I still have to tell you that priests have recognized foundations, but that actors don't. That's my question. For the second time, I ask this question to the Minister of Culture, and I ask him that if he wants to be concerned not only with personal interests, as we have so far been in a situation where we feel it as artists, but with general interests, to look at small and independent artists living on the edge of existence, i.e. to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5771	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Zarko Obradovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5772	Thank you, Mr. Dulic. Since you mentioned doing business, it is my turn to tell you, as your colleague, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 225, about those tasks that are necessary for the performance of your function, which you do not do. Mr. Dulic, I would like to inform you, I think it is my turn to tell you, since I see that your party colleagues will not tell you, and neither will your partners, that the government of the Republic of Serbia introduced a forced administration in the municipality of Uzica in November 2006. It's almost a year. The Law on Local Self-Government is absolutely clear there, temporarily bigger could take three months, and if, after that, within six months, no administration is formed, elections must be held. Now she's ten months old and she doesn't have a choice. Mr. Dulic, I understand that the elections couldn't be called until a new council was elected, or new president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but since you were elected in mid-May this year, it was quite enough time to, respecting the Law on Local Self-Government and Powers, which the law gives you, call elections in the municipality of Uzica, especially since the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the new government, formed a new interim body on June 6th. Of course, members of that body are members of the government, or ruling coalition. Practically, since then, as far as I know, this authority has not held a single session, because they cannot agree on matters of their jurisdiction, or could not agree on the agenda. Deals are under way on local staff solutions, who will be the director, who will not, how many parties will win, whether, eventually, a new interim body will be formed and what will be done. Not to mention, in the meantime, employment is done by party membership and there is, at all, no organ that could control the way it works. I mention this because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on June 6th, when it formed this body, violated the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution for which, at least formally, we were all and which clearly stipulates that the composition of the provisional body must take care of the party and national assembly of the municipality. Mr. Dulic, it would be your turn, as president of the National Assembly, to correct this obvious illegality and to call the elections, to give the possibility to the citizens of Uzic, as well as to the citizens of Smederev, Great Gradit and Leskovec, because I spoke of these municipalities, to make known who they want at the level of local self-government, whom they want as their elected committees, to represent them and to arrange local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5773	Thank you. Since MP Vlatko Ratkovic is not there, the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, and let the accompanying MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5774	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary, citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, at the beginning, I would like to thank you on behalf of the citizens of Kruševec for having responded very quickly and vigorously to the initiative that the citizens of Kruševec have brought to you in the form of a parliamentary issue, through me, as the national representative of the citizens of Kruševec. Then, I would also like to inform the citizens of Serbia, which is why it is important to pass such a law and which is why it is necessary that we get some more laws as soon as possible that will contribute significantly to the abolition of visas and putting Serbia on the White Schengen list. The Democratic Party advocates putting the state border law, the law on asylum, the law on foreigners as soon as possible, in addition to this law, because, as you know, a meeting on the ongoing improvement of dialogue will be held before the European Commission's annual report, and we expect a very favourable report. I don't want to talk about this law any further, because Mrs. Natasa Vuckovic of DS has given all the advantages and reasons for voting for this law in a comprehensive way. In any case, I would like to warn myself that it is really necessary to deal very carefully with biometric data and to tell Serbian citizens that DS considers it necessary to pass a law on the protection of personal data. We believe that, in addition to cutting the deadline for issuing a travel document, that is, the passport, should certainly take into account a criminal provision that will sanction any misuse of biometric data from the travel document, because they are indeed well-defined criminal provisions through this law. Once again, I call on all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this law, because it is important for Serbia to be placed on the white Schengen list and I see no reason not to adopt such a good law, with certain suggestions given by the DS and some other parliamentary groups. I'm undermining that it's very good to shorten the time to issue passports and take care of these data and keep them safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5775	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another law before us, a law on travel documents, which, as the explanation puts it, has undisputed importance, but still regulates a matter that is mostly technical. I'm not quite sure that this is mostly technical law, because the shortcomings I've seen in this law and how they can affect, above all, the fates of individuals, and there are bad consequences for society in general. Thus, in Chapter II, which treats the type of travel documents, in Article 11, on official passports, among other things, stands - the official passport is issued to management workers with special powers in other state bodies. If we look at Article 45(2), we see that the records of the passports issued are kept in the MUP. Since this type of passport is issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you can see from Article 16, it cannot be concluded how the records of such passports are kept. That means no one knows how many passports like this are and who are being betrayed. Such passports will be owned again by people such as Beba Popovic, Janjusevic, Kolesar and similar to them. For that very reason, it is necessary to act preventively. In Article 15, a residence is equalized, or place where a person lives all the time, as well as a place where the person lives occasionally, or stays. This provision allows people who are hostile to the state of Serbia to easily reach passports. Thus, people who are not Serbian citizens can also get their hands on her passport. In what way? For example, the Albanian Cypriots, who are currently staying in Kosovo and Metohija, can reach passports in the following way -- with the help of the municipal administration, report that they are staying in Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedji, and therefore come round the way to passports. This also enables a member of the 30th Law, which requires a small number of evidence to obtain that document, or passport. It is as if the legislator cares that the law is easily misused by those who do not recognise our state of Serbia and want to reach passports, especially if it is known in Article 2(2) of the Law that the passport is proof of citizenship. Finally, since the DS MP was just talking about a white Schengen visa, I think we as MPs already have benefits, we have diplomatic and official passports. What is important is that we must make sure that at least 100,000 members of the Roma nation are returned, mostly from the EU countries, that they are socially endangered, that they have no settled housing issue, and they are not professional personnel that can easily get to work. If we take care of that white Schengen visa, let's look at the consequences, see if we can, as a state, get these people to meet, who should return to our country, because they're always welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5777	Thank you very much. Prior to MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a National MP, Nemanja Sarovic, appeared on the subject of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Today is 1666 a day since Professor Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal is waiting for his trial to begin in that international court. As you know, he's been prepared for that trial since day one. The indictment refers to the period from 1991 to 1993, so nearly 15 years have passed since the end of that period, yet the UN tribunal's prosecution is unable to begin the trial. Under great pressure from the domestic and, predominantly, international public, the start of the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj for November this year has been announced, although it is obvious that many assumptions for the start of the trial have not been met. The public knows that the procedural rights and fundamental human rights of Professor Vojislav Seselj have been brutally violated all these five years. He was even forced to starve, as a last resort, and to exercise some of his rights, but it is clear that the representatives of the prosecutor's office and, in general, the UN tribunal decided that the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj, if it is, would be kept away from the public. The public proceedings are guaranteed by numerous international documents, of course, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but what the public does not know is that the last three status conferences by Dr Vojislav Seselj could not even be traced online. So it is obvious that the start of the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj is nearing, that certain structures will be able to do everything in Serbia and out of Serbia to make it impossible for the domestic and foreign public to gain better insight into what is actually happening at the trial. It is clear that they are, in fact, preparing themselves for a fair and fair trial, but that by depriving new rights, in what kind of a way, they are condemning Dr Vojislav Seselj and covering at least this time of five years as he spent in custody. Faced with what will be happening in the present near future, the SRS began two weeks ago collecting the signatures of citizens who support the request for Dr Vojislav Seselj's trial to be transferred directly to one of the RTS TV channels. A huge number of signatures have been collected for the two weeks, despite a kind of media blockade and despite the fact that you cannot read or see anywhere in the newspapers or electronic media or anything related to this SRS action that we are carrying out in the territory of Serbia, supported by a truly large number of citizens, prominent intellectuals and celebrities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5779	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5780	I'm done. Now I'm going to quote, so don't count it on me. Article 51. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says everyone has the right to be informed in full, complete and timely about issues of public importance and means of public information are obliged to respect this right. Article 56. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the right to petition, says everyone has the right to petition and other proposals to state authorities, organisations entrusted with public authority, AP authorities and units of local self-government, and to receive a response when asked for it. Because of the petition and the proposal, no one can suffer the adverse consequences, nor can suffer the adverse consequences for the positions set out in the proposal, unless he has committed a criminal offence, which in this case is not the case. The reason I came forward was the fact that in the last few days, SRS activists who in the streets, in the squares, door-to-door, have been gathering these signatures, encountering pressure from the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. It is, in the first place, pressure from members of the Ministry of the Interior, therefore, members of the police, who legitimize our activists and sort of scrutinize them and demand some kind of permission to collect the signatures of the citizens who support this petition. In no legal act, I have read the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing the right to petition, therefore, no legal or sublaw requires the obligation to receive any type of approval for the collection of petition signatures. I ask the parliamentary question to the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular to Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, is it in his view and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to collect the signatures of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who support the petition needed prior permission from state authorities or the Ministry of the Interior? I would like Mr Jocic to make a statement, and it would be best right away, it is not too difficult to ask, whether he or the Government of the Republic of Serbia is behind this kind of pressure on the activists of the Serbian Radical Party, or whether it is publicly stated here that it will not cause any problems for the activists of the Serbian Radical Party in collecting the signatures of citizens who support this petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5781	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Despotovic reported, and then we continue and the next is Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I asked Mr. Cvetkovic in Article 226, three months ago, and now I'm introducing you to the border crossing of the Apple, or Ranch. The apple is five kilometers from the border crossing, and I think you're well aware of that border crossing, so I'd like to ask you, as it concerns the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Finance, to do something about it, because of the daily harassment of citizens at that border crossing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5783	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the People's MP Verica Radeta be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have all heard today from Minister Jocic and the ruling coalition's representatives a whole series of praises about this bill. However, all it takes is the authority to look at his provisions, to see that the law contains a whole series of shortcomings that do not require adoption. First of all, citizenship law is basic matter for travel documents law. One of the basic conditions for obtaining a travel document of any kind is the fact that a man is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. You remember that the SRS insisted, in a debate on the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Citizenship, that every Serb and every member of the Serb people who lives wherever in the world has to get citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if they want it, because it is Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is defined by the Republic of Serbia as the state of the Serbian people. So, as the state of all Serbs, wherever they live in the world. The travel documents law had to contain a provision that every Serb, wherever he lived in the world, could, if he wanted, get a travel document from the Republic of Serbia. The Law on travel documents is a typical material and legal regulation, therefore, a law that prescribes and regulates one administrative area, i.e. mutual rights and obligations of citizens and states relating to travel documents. It is a legislative practice that whenever a material and legal regulation is adopted, that regulation must also contain the conditions under which appropriate rights can be acquired, in this case, those are the rights to obtain a travel document. However, the Proposal for a Law on travel documents, absolutely, does not contain a provision that would prescribe conditions under which a travel document could be issued. These conditions are particularly important because of the fact that my predecessors pointed out. In one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is Kosovo and Metohija, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia does not currently apply, and in that part of the country of territory currently, through unfortunate political circumstances, lives a large number of former or current terrorist formations that actively participated in the fight against Serbia's security forces in Kosovo and Metohija, especially during 1998 and 1999. This law, i.e. the bill, does not contain any restrictive provision regarding such persons, resulting in those who fought with weapons in their hand against the state of Serbia during 1998 and 1999, and who committed the most serious crimes, could, if they wanted, receive, a passport from the Republic of Serbia, if they do not already have it, and most of such persons, I suppose, already owns the travel document of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, there is one provision, pointed out by my predecessors, a provision in Article 35(1) point 3. The bill, which provides that a citizen can be rejected with his request to issue a travel document, if this stems from a recognised international act. Everyone knows, even though those who are lawyers, that international law regulates relations between countries and that it is a very rare practice, there is hardly any, that some international acts directly refer to an individual. The question now arises -- which are to recognise international acts that would refer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and prevent them from getting a travel document from the Republic of Serbia? Obviously this is about some secret lists, whether they are drawn up by NATO, whether they are drawn up by the Hague tribunal or by the European Union, but so far we have had a whole series of unpleasant cases related to such lists and the SRS feels that this provision in the bill should be deleted. Furthermore, for all those who are understood in nomochnik, or legislative technique, the technique of writing the law, there is one provision that is really funny, and that is the provision of Article 52. Proposal for a travel document law. It's about criminal provisions. "The fine of 40,000 to 50,000 dinars will punish the person responsible for the offence" etc. There is no example in our legislative practice to prescribe such a small range of penalties. So the penalty range in this case is only 10,000 dinars. Now I ask you, how will the authority applying these criminal provisions apply one of the basic principles of every criminal procedure, and this is also a criminal procedure - the principle of freedom of choice? And where will his freedom be if the penalty range is between 40,000 and 50,000 dinars? Practically, such a range is insignificant. Obviously, that range should be much larger. Furthermore, the promoter did not convince us why the law is in force, that is, why it begins to apply six months from the date of its entry into force. I want to remind the minister, and also the ruling coalition, that we have so far had a whole series of negative examples related to the practice of applying the law to a delayed fact in relation to the date of its entry into force. To remind you that the ruling majority in this assembly had voted in an unconstitutional manner on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, which violated a constitutional provision that prohibits retroactiveness, and all because the Government failed to maintain that deadline for the launch of advertising for the deployment of civil servants into positions. There's a whole series of such laws. So it is completely unclear, if the government is technically, financially and organisationally, administratively ready to issue new travel documents, and only waiting for Parliament to pass the law, why should it be necessary to extend its application to a period of six months? Let me remind you that the ministers from the current government, during this summer's break, were a whole series of pausal and inappropriate critical remarks on the work of Parliament, of course, it is Parliament's fault that no new reform and European laws are adopted, etc. When Parliaments adopt such a law, the government itself gives itself the freedom to postpone its application for a full period of six months, and it does not say at all why it takes six months, whether to print travel documents, to prepare these forms, etc. So it's obvious that it's a flat-rate provision that gives great freedom to the state administration, and it's quite clear why you're doing it -- our state administration is still too bulky, inefficient, irrational, and you're doing nothing to stop it, but you're still in the state administration hiring your party personnel. Furthermore, I am indeed vaguely aware of Article 2(2) of the Law on travel documents, where it is said that during my stay abroad, the travel document serves its holder to prove his identity. It is a practice for passports, i.e. by means of a different pathway identity, to prove themselves in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We all know the practice that citizens, among other things, and the voting rights can be achieved on the basis of passports. It follows from a provision like this that a citizen can prove his identity in the Republic of Serbia by means of road correctness, but he can prove abroad. So the provision is completely unclear and should be thrown out of the bill. In the end, not to take up valuable time for my colleagues from the SRS, it is indeed a hypocritical call to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is contained in the reasoning of the bill. Whenever the ruling coalition does not know what to do, it does not know what to say or how to justify its actions or inaction regarding the application of the Constitutional Law, it says that some bill should be adopted because it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you that there are far more important things that this assembly should have done and much more important laws that should have been passed, and still have not been passed, although such obligations directly stem from the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We still don't have a legal, or constitutional governor of the NBS, we don't have state-level senior prosecutors, a whole series of courts, which are stipulated by the laws, not working. Then the government comes to think of it, to gain time, to propose one of these laws. Indeed, it is funny that MPs of the ruling coalition say that now that we get new passports, new forms, etc., we will be able to travel more easily abroad. It is clear that the European Union will not change its visa policy towards the state of Serbia as long as we are determined to defend Kosovo and Metohija. It doesn't matter what our passports look like and whether they're wearing one or the same coat of arms. Of course, the SRS is meant to have signs of the Republic of Serbia on passports and on all other public documents, but there are far more important things to be done in this assembly yet to be done. Because of the whole series of irregularities and the bad provisions contained in this bill, I would advise Minister Jocic to withdraw it from the assembly procedure or, at least, to adopt any amendments and objections made to the SRS after this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5785	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radisha Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5786	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the beginning, and for the sake of the public, first of all, I would like to remind that Serbia is, unfortunately, in an entirely unconstitutional state. Today, we are discussing a bill on travel documents, and we have not yet fulfilled the obligations set out in Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. I think we are under obligation, we who would like to respect the Constitution, that every time we talk about the government's proposals, we warn the public of Serbia that, thanks to the government of Serbia, Serbia, I repeat, it is in an unconstitutional state. Much has been said and written about the bill and many Serbian citizens have been explained, they have been deceived that this is one of the laws that is our way into Europe, one of the laws under which many more citizens will have passports, on which we will get some visa relief faster, on the white Schengen list, etc. Now I'm going to explain to you, dear colleagues, and, first of all, to the public of Serbia, that none of this is true. The visa relief promised by Tanja Misčević applies only to politicians and athletes, to representatives of the government, of course, and to the MPs, to all of us here, to all high-ranking state officials and athletes. I remind you that we all have or can have diplomatic passports, that we can get a visa whenever we want and go wherever we want and that, of course, we can use it as much as possible. The SRS argues that laws are passed for the people in this parliament, not laws for the elite. When this law is passed, no Serbian citizen who could not get a visa so far will be able to get one now. Otherwise, this trip to Europe, which you are talking about and which Boris Tadic says that DS will advocate it at all costs, and when it says - at any cost, probably thinks at the cost of Kosovo and Metohija, you should not start with this law, nor any other law that only burdens citizens of Serbia, but should already go to the opening of new jobs, you should go to curb corruption and crime. Only after that will the citizens of Serbia live better and better, only after that will the Serbian citizens be able to think about travel and visas and passports, etc. Of course, if I'm not misread, we don't mind passing travel papers, but not like this. You heard and you'll hear why not like this. We have nothing against favours and visa reliefs, but I repeat, we want this to apply to all citizens of Serbia, not just to some elite, which you, even, are trying to create in Serbia. I claim that by passing this law, I said just now, no citizen who, by the way, couldn't get a visa won't even get a visa when we have this law. I guarantee that Olivera Miletovic or any other friend of Dr Vojislav Seselj, even when you adopt this law, will not be able to get a Dutch visa to visit Dr Vojislav Seselj, because it is not a matter of regulations or Schengen visas, it is a matter of anti-Serbian policy being conducted in many Western European countries, in America uncontested, and which, unfortunately, is also supported by certain people and groups from the ruling coalition today in Serbia. I will make several key remarks on only some members of the bill, as the SRS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments. The minister's not here. I think by adopting these amendments to our law, this law would be, as much as applicable, and without the adoption of the Tihamandman, believe that this law means absolutely nothing. You'll see, live, and see, in a few months, remember what I'm saying now, we'll have amendments and additions to this law, because in the meantime you'll understand, or the people who apply it will realize that it's an inapplicable law, so through these changes and additions you'll accept what we are proposing today, through the amendments, because you won't allow yourself to accept the amendments of the SRS MPs. Here, I'll say something about Article 9(3). The bill, where you say a diplomatic and official passport can also be issued to a member of the family of persons who has been issued such a passport, who lives with him in a joint household and, imagine, travels abroad or stays abroad with him. This part of this sentence -- "travelling abroad", this is scandalous. You know, it's understandable that if someone goes to our consular office or embassy, stays there for years, then family members of such a person have a diplomatic passport, but for every time abroad, any one of us gets a diplomatic passport, that's, people, a scandal. Well, then will there be any record in this country, that knows who the persons who have the right to a diplomatic passport are? So, any one of us who goes on some official trip abroad can get a diplomatic passport for a member of his family, according to the bill. It's unacceptable and of course we intervened there. When it comes to the period of validity of the passport, you suggested that the passport be issued for five years. We think it is a short term, that a passport should be issued for a period of 10 years, for a simple reason, that we do not expose Serbian citizens to unnecessary costs in such frequent periods. But that's why you have a member of the 20th where you say that a diplomatic and official passport is issued with a five-year period of validity. This is unnecessary, it should clearly be stated here that this diplomatic or official passport is issued on a deadline in which there are conditions laid down in Articles 9 to 11, which provide for whoever and how the diplomatic passport is obtained. Why, for example, 20 days before the term of office expires, he would have to take a new diplomatic passport, if another 20 days would be, say, Serbia's ambassador to one of the countries. So this is completely pointless and I'd say you didn't think enough when you translated this text. Article 30 refers to contributions with a request to obtain a travel document, and at the end of Article 1 you listed what should be attached, inter alia, to be made aware of other public documents proving the data contained in the request. We in the SRS never accept such flat-rate attitudes, we advocate clear, concise legal provisions, which do not allow abuse or broad interpretation. Of course, laws are passed in order for good lawyers to interpret them in the right way, not only to read them, because then it is not the essence, but it cannot be passed a law that has such a broad and undefined definition - "as well as other public documents". Then, under such a law, for example, Aleksandar Karadzic was expelled from Serbia because he received a ID card based on the documents he was asked for, but also here, it stands "another". Then it's up to some clerk there who's other documents. Such things in the law, neither this nor any other, can exist. When it comes to refusal to issue travel documents, Article 35 paragraph 1 point 3, you said: "The order to whom the application for a travel document has been submitted will refuse the request if the person requested by the issuing of the travel document, in accordance with recognised international acts, is prohibited from travelling." All the MPs of the SRS who spoke about this have drawn attention to this inadmissible provision. We really think that this is the source of various abuses, we have experience in the past of what happens, anyway, and today, is based on some secret and public lists. You know well that Serbs from Republika Srpska must not cross any borders because they do not know where some secret list awaits them. This, in particular, refers to these future witnesses of the UN tribunal, given that the current action is now a "witness" capture. Literally, this is how the Hague investigators behave because they do not have witnesses for the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj, so they are now on their way across Serbia to scare people, of course, with the help of this special prosecutor and special prosecutor. Last night, we hear Bruno Vekaric, on behalf of the Prosecutor's Office, pleading that they have nothing to do with the case of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, as if we don't all know that the Special Prosecutor's Office is conducting criminal proceedings and "Ovcar" and "Zvornik 1" and "Zvornik 2", and "Zvornik 3", etc., just to make mistakes some witnesses in the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Of course, there's nothing going on, but we don't want to intervene on this member, because we don't want to put Serbian citizens in an awkward situation because of the law we're making. The obligation to notify of the termination of the grounds for refusal and the withdrawal of the travel document has been regulated by Article 39(2), in which you have said that you will be deemed to have ceased the grounds for refusal if the competent court, within six months of the date of submission of the request, or the withdrawal of the travel document, does not renew the application." This can't do this, you can't let Bruno Vekaric or the one who catches the pigeon writers carrying messages to Ratko Mladić, you can't regulate this matter in this way to create even greater uncertainty. We Serbian radicals advocate the rule of law and the legal security of citizens. So, in order not to abuse it, the court must react within this time limit. Another, a brief observation, refers to Article 49 - delivery of data to foreign authorities. Of course, this is always the most important thing for you, so we warn you that you must accept our amendment where we predicted that the data delivered to the authorities of a foreign country about a person must immediately inform that person that the job has been done. And finally, a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, let this be my parliamentary question, how many ministers in the current government have the passports of some other states?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5787	The Messenger of the people is Radisha Ilic, and then the Messenger of the people, Solomon Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have another law in front of us that, if we don't adopt it, according to reason, we're supposed to be late somewhere, somewhere allegedly, we won't, receive it, etc. Our government forgets that no country that holds on to itself would deny the provision of the highest legal act in the country, the Constitution. Constitutional law is a dead letter on paper in Serbia. The election laws are on the agenda, apparently, of some petty clerk in Brussels, instead of passing laws on the military, on the President, to elect a Constitutional Court, judges of the Constitutional Court, governor of the National Bank, etc. But let it serve those who lead this country to honor. This bill reminds me of the Law on the ID dealing with the previous assembly of Parliament. We know what a tumultuous reaction the law has come across by the SRS MPs, but also from the public, including the Serbian Orthodox Church. As we know, despite the law that imposed the introduction of bar codes and chips, it was nothing, because the government regulation literally bridged a wave of dissatisfaction with the public. Although the SRS MPs pointed out all the faults of the proposed law, in particular Article 8, if I remember correctly, the opposition of the minister not to adopt the amendments of the SRS was subsequently lifted against his head, so they passed a regulation that, in fact, had come up with a bill. This bill also mentions chips. It is likely to be justified by a directive, an international obligation, and what is most important - the fight against crime and terrorism. It's just, we forget one fact, in England, in Spain, in the United States, long ago passports were protected by all possible codes and chips, so again terrorists simply walked into those countries and carried out terrorist actions. We know about 9/11, we know about a train station in Madrid, we know about a London subway, and so on. A person who deals with crime certainly follows the development of science and electronics and will likely find a way to jump all of this. As much as we boast of security systems, there is a likelihood that at some given moment, it is being misused. The amendments to the SRS, but also what General Bozidar Delic said earlier, are exactly the direction to further protect our citizens. The basic objection to this bill is the lack of a concrete legal solution to the type of data to be found in the memory of the chip, which is referred to in Article 25. So, it is left to the minister, to adopt some sublegal act which, according to him known reasons, will force citizens to identify themselves through data, perhaps, about political belonging to parties, about participation in armed conflicts, status in society, possibly, about the rank of the military, if they have it, then, through information about father, grandfather, about everything and everything. This expanded biography can be placed on a chip without the knowledge of the travel document holder. It will likely eventually go to Brussels, in a package with all three levels of protection, as the minister boasted when the ID law was passed in the previous term. Is there, perhaps, a possibility of tracking a person who owns a document like this, with a chip, by means of an electronic means? We don't know that because we don't know either species, shape, or manufacturer of those chips. If that's possible, then the whole story of freedom of movement, the right to privacy, is unthinkable. It's pointless because someone, pressuring the tasters, the numbers of your home number, can easily locate you in no time. Let us remember again the Law on the ID card and the obligation that the persons who receive it must attach and perform from the parent books of their parents, so the information for the complete two generations back. Someone's gonna have it all on their palms. Simply put, someone will easily get a picture of Serbia back almost 100 years. Mr. Minister should know that General Bozidar Delic, otherwise a great war hero in 1999, is a man full of experience in waging secret wars against our country; therefore the ruling coalition should adopt not only amendments submitted by Mr. General Bozidar Delic, but also other SRS MPs. Speaking of chips, it's time for someone from the Ministry to let us know what to do with that millions-euro equipment his predecessor bought without any tender from, I think, the Germans, and they'll later, the Kobajagi, give us protection codes for making new ID cards. Will that equipment be used at least now, so we don't lose that kind of money, thrown away in 2003? In addition to all this, we are aware that travel documents must follow what is imposed from the European Union countries, from the world, in terms of shapes, codes, chips, etc., but we must be in a function of protecting each citizen of Serbia. He must first of all know what personal data he has entered in the contents of the biometric chip, as well as to be notified in case these data are subject to verification or for some other reason being forwarded to the service of a foreign country. In the end, I can't help but mention, a little while ago, a colleague, Verica Radeta, mentioned something current in Serbia, and it has something to do with travel documents, and with the law on citizenship, which was mentioned last week. It is the case of the express banning son Radovan Karadzic, Aleksandr Karadzic, of Serbia, for a year against entering Serbia. It's just amazing! Here we had the opportunity, even last week, to see the ruling coalition's minister and MPs kill each other by proving how much they care for Serbs outside Serbia's borders. It's the man's fault that one of the officials in the state's apparatus reportedly made a mistake in issuing an I.D. First of all, how many people in Serbia don't even have a ID card and do they treat them this way, do they persecute them in the best way? This was worse than when an illegal convoy of Iranians met across our country. And the state treats them more humanly than it was in this case. We see that from The Hague there is a principle like the Gestapo in Serbia. Father's in the woods, and you killed his whole family. So now we're after Karadzic, we can't catch him - tear his family apart and leave him on the street. Now, dear colleagues, as a parent, I ask you -- how would you feel if your child, heavily operated, stayed in a hospital with fixators, in intensive care, and you were expelled from Serbia because you were a Serb?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5789	The People's Messenger Sulajman Spaho has the word, and then the Messenger of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5790	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by passing the travel documents law, I noticed something that was not logical, and so did my distinguished colleagues. It's about Article 35(3). Article 35 reads: "The order to which a travel document has been applied will refuse the request, i.e. not to issue a travel document in the following cases", and point 3 of this law reads: "If the person requesting the issuing of a travel document is in accordance with recognised international acts, travel is prohibited". I'm not a lawyer, but this decision is contrary to international law. International law regulates the relationship between states, does not directly refer to an individual, so the decision represents the possibility of political pressure on Serbia and its citizens. Also, this provision can be an alibi for the UN tribunal to determine and give directives to the Serbian authorities on who is like and who is not. This provision can also be very important when the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj begins. It can easily happen that citizens who are on the side of the defense, in fact, witnesses who are by the defense, do not get travel documents to travel as witnesses to The Hague. Most likely, through amendments to this article, we will fix all of this which is not good in this Member. Since the minister is not here, I'd like to speak to the gentleman who's replacing him. It's that the teachers of individual schools in Loznica, as I come from Loznica, have spoken to me and asked me to present all the malversions of the directors of these schools, the higher schools, which are members of the DSS. Now I'm going to name them, so I'm going to explain to you what this is all about. Gimnasium, director is Radislav Marinković, High School of Chemistry - Branivo Pavlovic, Elementary School "Vuk Karadzic" - Dobro Andric, "Bambi" District - Koviljka Radić, Music School - Vesna Mitrovica, all members of DS. For example, they're giving the firm Juka Colors to start all the schools in Loznica. The Djunkic Milivove is a member of the DSS Municipal Committee and the chairman of the DSS Executive Staff. Normally, the elections go, this gentleman, Djunkic Milivove, got the job, and that difference between prices goes to the DSS for the elections. The greatest evil is that the president of the municipal board, Mira Mitrovic, who has for a long time influenced these directors to give the man and the company a job, and has been charged against because of abuse of official office, i.e. She hired her friends, party buddies, no competition. Normally, I went to the D.A.'s office, but it's out of the act right now, actually hidden where it's supposed to be, but we're going in every way, and the SRS Municipal Committee, and I'm going as a MP, to see what's going on. I get threats after that. I'm not afraid. If I were afraid, I'd be a member of the DSS; I'm a Serbian radical and I'm proud, I'm not afraid, because my president is a Serbian hero, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5791	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, then Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning, when speaking in a separate opinion on the Road document bill, I stressed that this was not a matter of technical nature for countries in the world that introduced biometric data readings on personal documents. We now have this with our ID cards, with the alternative identification of citizens, and with the obligation to follow the standards for issuing travel documents, passports, as an international document, we act in this way as proposed by the proposer. However, it is not a small amount of insignificant and harmless work, especially for the MUP in our country, which we don't even know what equipment it has, because many times since this morning, colleagues have mentioned that strange supply without the tender held by Dusan Mihajlovic. That was, on several occasions, my parliamentary question in the Defence and Security Committee, back a few years ago. I'm sorry that Mr. Milic is not in the O.R. right now, since he was deputy minister, and he could tell us that it's the equipment that's out of date in the age of this technology development. Mr Tomislav Nikolic once said it nicely, when the first personal computers appeared, when he explained to his older son, who already has two sons, that it was in no way worth someone racing with technology and technology, because he would always lose that race. The question arises as to how many states Serbia and the MUP will have to single out for what is called the machine reading of travel documents. This morning, General Bozidar Delic spoke of something which is the conclusion of more people, experts in the field of security in the world in general, about the adoption, now known, for those who wanted to follow it and a little bit to denigrate into this matter, the Budapest Declaration. It is not by any chance that experts from various countries, those who have unreservedly accepted the introduction of biometric chips into personal documents, discuss advantages, weaknesses and what level of security one state should introduce to protect its citizens, so that we can, based on what is obvious intentions and the MUP in our country, read data from other citizens' documents coming into Serbia. The measures to reduce the risk of security breach, identity theft, and when it comes to these chips, are not effective enough in the world. The Americans resorted, even to the highest degree of protection, so you can see that they have no use for it. No one can say, especially I can't say for myself that I'm an expert in this area. There are people who are taught and only do that and there are people who claim to do just that, such as Mr. Todorovic, who is an expert in the domain of his work at the Ministry. The minister is a political figure, Mr. Jocic is a graduate lawyer, until yesterday he was a politician, and the other day he said he was sorry he wasn't an MP anymore, that he could do a little more segregation. When it comes to this sort of thing, let's ask people who do it on a regular basis, that's all they do. It was thought, even by introducing these protective metal fibers on the cover of passports, that stealing identity, or that reading data from U.S. passports chips, would be completely impossible. Turns out he didn't. Each country has resorted to its own way of controlling, or protecting, but no one has so far, in countries where it was done to perfection, nor will it ever be able to protect the data of one individual. Then, rightly, a question arises for all of our citizens. Imagine, we are now discussing this, and before that there has been no debate on the subject, nor have the citizens heard about it, except from the assembly phone, since this morning only the MPs of the SRS, or, in 99% of this time, and now you explain to the people, to those who make the 89%, if this information is true, who have never had or have at this time a travel document, what is waiting for them on that road. They understand that they have to gain confidence in citizenship, how they will pass that procedure, but they, and that's natural in every man, are interested in how to protect that information. The question arises whether it should be, as you would say, transparently and at the sight of some other bodies and organizations when our citizen travels abroad and how safe is it? Not at all. To stay in a hotel, anywhere abroad, as a document and application for stay, you have to give your passport, and the machine reading device from that biometric chip is not expensive at all, so you can have it, for example, any hotel. People were dealing with the question of how much and to whom it should only be given. The question has been raised whether this should be a reading on that or that distance and how much the risk is, how reduced the risk is, depending on how the chip is, or how data is read. It is not by any chance that Mr. Bozidar Delic, the famous Serbian general, our distinguished colleague, who has been authorized for this item of the agenda, has made it clear to you, Mr. Todorovic, that I must now address you, because the minister does not, that the citizens know at all times, because he is obviously present, not in the face of it, but in the fear of people, what contains this chip, in which way and who can read it. I guess it's a fundamental right, by all the international conventions, to know who is who at all times has the information about you. You know, through various cases, this also made these security experts work, that it was found that on a two to ten-metre radio frequency, data from the passport bearer can be read. As much as you are perfecting the data protection technique on the chip, so will anyone who wants to reach you, regardless of whether these are various terrorist organisations, which are mainly, whether these are various organisations dealing with spy activities, as they are obviously present in our country and without the introduction of such travel documents, which, by this subversive activity, are going to undermine the political system and the institutions of the system. You have to tell the citizens, if we as a state have accepted, without any resistance, that this passport will be, how protected the citizens will be. On the other hand, the very difficult position of the law that regulates the delivery of data to the competent authorities when it comes to the residence of our people abroad. You can't play with what's called the rights of man and citizen in our country. Just because he, signing and recognising the Serbian state as his own, is obliged to respect the Constitution and the laws of this country, does not mean that at all times he should be a clay pigeon or someone who will put his life on the table to the organs of some other states, especially when it comes to these cases of courageous Serbian heroes. A colleague of Radeta, who is, by the way, one of the members of our president's defence team, Professor Vojislav Seselj, has been dealing with these cases for a number of months on those cases that the UN tribunal wants to instrumentise to falsely testify against our president. When we talk about making a list of unwanted people to get a travel document, she mentioned the scandalous address yesterday of this man Bruno Vekaric, this unfortunate man, because you know what kind of court - such as the spokesman, such as the prosecutor. He's right, Toma Nikolic, when he said about this Vukcevic, it's more like a madhouse than a courtroom. The same is true of you with this Vekaric. Imagine that he attacked the Serbian Radical Party and the president of our party, who has been in The Hague for five years, in the worst way possible. This unfortunate Vekaric says, and the pronunciation of Mr. Vukic yesterday and the findings that these villains are doing it, that they are forcing these people to falsely testify and accept their rule - statements by some dead witnesses, in preparation for our president's process - may be because of the fact that one of them is a member of the Serbian Radical Party, and this is about the Ovcar process. This is enough proof that it is not really for the courtroom but is for the asylum, not only because of it, but because of the fact that this Mr Vekaric, because of such a statement, could be held accountable and handled by the competent state authorities. They will also have to do so because, as a spokesman for a special court, he is qualified to be a political party and thus continues to be a hack. In this way, you pressure all the people that these Hague villains are looking for, because they are members of the Serbian Radical Party, that they have to do that and that, or they, with various bribes and blackmails, will harm them personally and their family members. Don't think that's gonna happen. This Vekaric, whether or not he has a double passport, is likely not to have, however, I am absolutely sure that soon justice will prevail in Serbia and will not be able to escape with their heads regardless, and as far as he is concerned, it is absolutely no matter whether he is a member of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia or even a branch of the HDZ here in Serbia, because it is obvious that he is not normal when such statements are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5793	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5794	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill of law has some contradictions, as well as theoretically very open issues, which have not been resolved or even touched. In Article 24(5), on the content of the form, it is said that the form also contains space for the registration of citizenship. It's funny if we have a travel document law for the travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of citizenship should it be? He's a Serbian citizen, there's no other state. It is no longer Serbia-Montenegro. Maybe the minister was thinking about strangers, that they should get travel papers. Then it should be singled out, and here to stress that the law has allowed a foreigner who lost his passport in Serbia, and there are no diplomatic representations or, on the other hand, no passports and stamps, to get that travel document. Then, by law, he should be given the travel document of the Republic of Serbia, not only to the citizens of Serbia. Another illogicality. Article 19 says to shorten the duration of passports, and you criticise previous authorities, that is your practice, because only 11% of citizens have passports. If you want everyone to have a passport, then you have to let them be cheaper, longer-term, for ten years. And for technical progress, it's not true, because we'll see that here you don't use technical opportunities and progress. You can tell by the number of application forms. You're looking for a large number of forms. What do you need that for? If you already have computer data, you have a chip that has all the data, then the passport should only be issued on the basis of the identity card, or what other countries have -- so-called. the birth certificate or the birth certificate. Everything else means only more costs for citizens and ineffectiveness of the state administration, to swallow as much money as possible from citizens. That is why it is incomprehensible to ask for so many documents when there is this basic document - a personal card, for example, either you can enter a birth certificate or a parent book, and so cut it short, so that citizens can get a passport easier. In the case of a travel document application, it is illogical that it lasts 30 days. Almost everywhere in the world, and in less developed countries, passports are issued on the same day. Why does it take 30 days? Is the Ministry so messed up that they don't have coordination, they don't have technical capabilities, so it takes 30 days to get rid of that request? That's absurd. It has nothing to do with reality. The passport should be given as soon as possible for a week, because 30 days is just a reflection of the ineffectiveness of the state administration. Article 48 - use of data. Article 48(1), which states that the data can be provided to a body authorised by law or other regulation, is quite fine. But if there's a point one, then it can't be attitude 2, which says, the data-seeking authority they're required to carry out business under his jurisdiction. If he's not in charge of the law, he can't, I don't care if he can't do his job, if it's not in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Do you mean private detective agencies here? What do we care about them? It comes very funny, item 3 – that data can be provided if it is not possible to obtain them otherwise or if it would cost a lot. The state authority, when it has the power of law, won't cost it anything. Isn't that right? If it's authorized by law, then there's no cost. That's ridiculous. I don't understand the meaning of attitudes 2 and 3 at all. If he's authorized by law, then everything's fine, and if he's not authorized by law, how do I care what he can't do, what do I care what it costs a lot? That's very illogical. The question that opens long ago and lasts until today, it's -- can anyone limit the issue of passports, can anyone not betray a citizen's passport? It's the flow of democracy, and no one can forbid anyone to have a passport. Provisions of restrictions should be cast out. Only a competent court can prohibit a particular person from travelling, nothing more and nothing less. A passport, as a personal document, such as a ID card, or any other document, every citizen who asked for it has to get it, if he's a citizen. No one can, not even the court can limit him from getting it. The court can only forbid him to temporarily leave the country and travel, but it's a personal document that no one, the Constitution is clear -- they're all equal, they can't take from him. However, legal matter can only prohibit temporary movement, meaning that for a certain period of time, no less or less is taken away. Now someone's going to say, what if they run away, smuggling, so you have this international mechanism, it's a felony and you're looking for it over a BOLO. Then you will prove that you are Democrats. These bans, these restrictions, can only be political manipulation against your insinuators. Even here, you've made it very clear that a public prosecutor can initiate the procedure. Well, here's most of the proceedings of the public prosecutors of political nature, and what's really criminal, let me give you an example, that's this so-called. The tobacco mafia. Vojislav Seselj talked about it before 2000, gave the data, and no one responded. You need it today, but you're a little bit on the side. You've got to be a little bit in the process of modern fluids. You must respect the citizen and his rights. Let go of these political manipulations. No passport should be the subject of political pressure. People who have this problem because of politics know it very well. Those who don't have it, think it's like this, nothing, the court has a right. The court has no right. This personal document must have anyone who will; the court can only forbid it to travel temporarily, no less, no more. Why do we make things so complicated when it can be simple? So I would like the minister to see a little bit and prove that this is democracy, that they are more advanced than their bosses, for example, in America after 9/11, who introduced so many restrictions, and you immediately accepted them, which is not good. They have now become the most imprisoned state of the world and their citizen is the most hated citizen of the world only because of their limitations. We don't have anything to do with it. Say it loud and clear, that it's being discussed and that we see who's right and who's wrong, whether their regulations are good, whether they're in line with modern democracy or not. That's why I'd like the minister to think about it a little bit, especially this contradiction that the law has, and a little theoretical debate is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5795	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5796	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. The travel documents law is, if I may say so, an act of national importance. It stretches across the territory of a country. However, it must comply with international standards. There are several international conventions that guarantee that when these standards are respected, then our travel rules respect abroad. I suppose you realize that unless our travel document meets those international standards, it would be treated as some worthless paper that means nothing abroad. I hope that if there is any flaw in that regard, it will be removed. However, I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, given that in 2004, a Law on the assistance of families of persons indicted before The Hague tribunal was passed, what about the law? One minister said at the time -- that law doesn't oblige me, I won't make a single dollar out of the budget, and for constitutionality and legality, he said he didn't know what that meant. However, it also proved that no verdict or decision of any court has been recognised, but has risen above the law and the Constitution. Then, in a coalition with Slobodan Vučetic, then President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, one solution was made which practically devalued the whole law, which is completely illegal. I'm interested in whether this decision, or not, is the Supreme Court's solution and today binding on the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Does the government of the Republic of Serbia see the adverse consequences of this minister and Slobodan Vučetic's behaviour? It's the first thing I care about and it's important to this law. It doesn't matter now that some state is assessing some of its interests, you know that some people looking for a visa from some country, our citizens, get some writers who say you're a danger to the national interests of the Netherlands, etc. I don't know what the state's relationship is in this situation. So far, our country has been silent about Euro-Atlantic integration, of course, taking care of some of the interests of those in power. That's no way for the state to behave. The state protects its citizen on the entire globe, no matter where it is. Whether he likes it or not, it is a matter of taste, but from the viewpoint of the Constitution and the law, he must respect the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm embarrassed the minister isn't here. I hope you'll let him know. Today, or the other day, we received a notice, or answer, and signed by Vojislav Kostunica, but signed it with a seal, on the question of Ms. Verice Radete, in which they provided information on the salary of the people who work in the Bureau for publishing textbooks. Two officials are listed here, and you asked for an answer to that question for two. I don't think this is accurate data. Why do I think they're not true? I think it's a far larger amount of funds received by the chairman of the board of directors. I think the police are supposed to conduct an investigation at the Bureau for the publishing of textbooks and determine the right amounts, not on the basis of general acts, regulations, so 10 percent less than five salaries, so this and that. No, but according to the payroll, what's that? Why are we looking for this? Because I get the impression that the amount of funds received by that chairman of the Management Board has a significant impact on his role in the National Assembly. In order for a man to keep that amount, he is able to get every worker out of the pay phone, if necessary. So the amount significantly defines his political behavior because he has to be equal with all of us. If we're all even, then let's all get another 56,000 each to equalize. If you give those 56,000, I give up immediately, for children from Kosovo and Metohija. But these MPs and board presidents don't give up...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5797	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5798	I'll pick it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5799	I'm asking the minister of police to check that information. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. We could have finished the principle debate, so we could take a break. I don't think we have much left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5800	Thank you, fellow Albianic. That's exactly why I'm reporting to Article 93. Rules of Procedure. He was not injured, but abused, or not used by Minister Dragan Jocic. This really doesn't make sense. This is a scandal. The minister knew that, on the list of reported, we only spoke from the SRS. There were two colleagues from the SPS, from the ruling parties, I think of you which hour you were on the left, the hour you weren't, from the DSS and DS -- three or four of them were talking. This doesn't make sense because of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the minister, after the presentation of the MPs, has the final word. He can use his right or not, but it was right and you should have warned him, Mrs. Kolundzhia, to stay until the end, because we had very important objections to the bill, especially because we strongly oppose a member of the law who says that after the adoption of such a law on travel documents, which is not precise, which is unspeakable, which has some contradictions, a minister, a sublegal act, not even the Ministry, but a minister, that determines the appearance of passports. Now let me ask you, the remaining DS colleagues and several of you from the DSS, listen to me carefully, Mr. Matic, because the minister from your political party -- did you think about it, don't personally realize that, besides the appearance of the passport, which should contain the Serb coat of arms in gold, that there are dark blue colors, that there are certain dimensions, on the other hand, when the passports are opened, there is a map of the Republic of Serbia, or our country? This will confirm that we are also committed, as the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic tells us, that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of our territory and that we safeguard the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Because if you put in your passport a map of a state that is indivisible and whose unity you have to keep in every place, by leaving with that travel document, then you will prove yourself to be people who advocate it through achieving the highest degree of national consensus, you will show that you want to demonstrate and leave, both you personally and your friends and relatives, not to mention millions of other citizens, in those countries that are being kidnapped these days and want to kidnap KIM. That's one thing. The other thing is that, on the basis of our questions, both during the debate and at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, in addition to this new suggestion I am giving him, the minister had to consider all the objections and give his opinion. It would be best to accept our amendment, so he, in that technical order, could also contain this, if it were fortunate for you all to agree. There's no reason for us to get out of here. We're going to leave the O.R. for some regular break, and we don't have a minister's opinion on what a passport should look like. That really doesn't make sense. And we're talking about a law that gives him exclusive rights. I suggest that, in any case, it's usually the coat of arms of the state on the other side, that's the part that's cardboard, not plasticized...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5801	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5802	... on the other side of the passport, i.e. travel documents, that we put in a map of our country and write what is necessary under these international conventions in Serbian, French and English. But who should I ask and whom should I suggest when I have no idea where Minister Jocic is right now? It doesn't make sense that this is the way we discuss it, that we're seriously getting ready. You see how long we've been making our arguments, convincing you to accept some of the amendments, it would be best if this law made sense and looked like something. In the end, the minister is gone, which is really a scandal. I expect you, Mr Albianic, to publicly warn the minister and agree to what I said, upon my return to the post next to you, and to take the protection of the representatives of the people from such a arrogant attitude of the executive government, to say that this is wrong and that we cannot discuss the laws in such a way. Because in the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives... Here, I'm finishing up, Mrs. Kolundjia, I see you're watching, since it's been five minutes, and three are allowed, but if it's the only problem in this room and in the country, it would be a good thing it's just that. ... in the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives, since you no longer let that Balinian anywhere or nose slip, last night, I really don't know what the gentleman's name is, I apologize, the Deputy Director said - I really don't know what the Assembly is asking of us, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At present, there are only three draft laws in the congregation procedure. So much for efficiency and so much for the alleged, whatever you call it, the obstruction of us who think your laws are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5803	Thank you very much. The interior minister is attending a session of the Sports Committee, attended by the Republic Assembly. Seeing as that, however, there's dissatisfaction, I'm taking a break from an hour. We'll continue at 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5804	We're continuing our work. Jadranko Vukovic, from the Serbian Radical Party, has the word. The total time for the SRS on this agenda point is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been given a word on the basis of which we've issued an opinion, we MPs of the SRS, so I'm going to try, in a few words, to point out some remarks to Mr. Secretary, and I won't repeat myself, since my colleagues, mostly, have made all our remarks. Mr. Minister, it would be very important if you were on the Committee not yesterday, but Friday, and it would be okay to come to the Committee regularly, not only when the law is being discussed, but to discuss with you, these are issues that MPs need to know. As far as this law is concerned, I would remind you, I assume your Obradovic of some of our objections drew attention, that, among other things, that it was a practice, as far as I know, in all previous mandates, and I believe that you were also a witness, because you were in the Defence and Security Committee, that the passport was found among the members of the Defence and Security Committee. We had to see what he looked like. Of the other objections, I'll take the next one out. Article 19 says the period of validity of passports is 5 years for adults and for children - 2 years. Mr. Minister, we have discussed this in the Committee, and we from the opposition, and some colleagues from the position, and we have concluded that this will increase the administrative obligations of citizens and costs and that the procedure will be complicated. Every five years a passport will have to be removed, and we don't see what the cost of taking out a passport will be. Article 27 - photography. The colleagues discussed this, taking data from the 6th article's position is done in a manner prescribed by the minister responsible for internal affairs. It's about this remark. Mr. Minister, I would now use the time I have left to ask you a question under Article 226 and I would ask you to answer me today or in writing, such as practice. These days, we were monitoring from the media the status conference of General Tolimir in The Hague tribunal, which I don't know which time he said he was arrested in Belgrade and that his apartment door was broken down with dynamite. We have raised this issue in the Committee, as members of the Committee on Defence and Security, and we have received an answer, Mr. Minister, in which, in writing, it is said that we were able to make sure from both the media and the press that Mr. Tolimir was arrested in Republika Srpska. Mr. Minister, I will not doubt at any moment what you said, nor doubt your good intentions, but this time I ask you, if, as Minister of Police or Government of Serbia, you remain in response to General Tolimir's arrest in Republika Srpska - then who arrested him in the Republic of Serbia, or who arrested him, if not our police? Why am I asking this? Because we have to remove this dilemma, and from the media, I also see that the Hague investigators are looking for an answer to this question. In case that issue is ignored, Mr. Minister, I think this high house would have to initiate a shift of the most responsible in the institutions and ask the D.A. to respond, in accordance with the law, whatever it is, to you or to anyone else, to the Ministry or to the military. I believe that this must be put so, for the simple reason why it imposes a question which the instruments of the authorities can use by the Defence and Security Committee if it is ignored by the executive authority regarding the provision of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5806	Thank you. There are no more reports on the speaker list. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, here you are, the People's Messenger Damjanovic, after him, the Messenger of Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hate to talk about it, and I wouldn't even be talking about it if it wasn't for Roma from the King's insistence. Namely, I received a fax that asked me several times to see what was done about the Roma community in the King. I don't think Roma should be targeted when times are this complicated in our country. When the Roma start to do something, to survive from today to tomorrow, some things happen, so let me read to you. "We want you to know that there is a public discrimination against the Roma community by the director of the JKP "Piace" in the King. Roma regularly pay all the taxes that the Board of Directors of Piace brought and so far have paid for a 60-120 dinar drinker per day. This morning they were charged 600 dinars, which is multiple compared to the previous period. During a conversation with Director Pijace, the question was whether there were decisions of the Management Board, decisions of the Assembly of the Municipality and we received an answer - no. To my question -- how then you charge 600 dinars for only the Roma population, the answer of the director was -- I decided to do it. ''I don't want to read any further, but I don't think this is the attitude of the Serbian people towards the Roma community, these are individuals, so I ask certain institutions to influence that this is not happening. We all know how difficult the Serbian people live, and we know how only then the Roma people live. They survive selling fruit and vegetables. We all know it's a trade, a resale, but there's no other way out for the survival of the Roma people, one part of the population, so I'm asking that this is not happening and that certain factors solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5808	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho, and after him the Messenger Rajko Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5809	I'm advocating a violation of article 266. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary, you weren't in the O.R. just now when I wanted to tell you what members of the DSS Municipal Committee in Loznica are doing. Since you're always hitting your chest that you're honest and honest and it doesn't matter who's in which party, now I'm going to bring you some interesting things that you should urgently check, whether they're true, and they're true, because I have all the contracts and all the evidence. It's about the directors of High School, who are members of the DSS, who give all the jobs, i.e. For years, a company - "Juka Boja" - has been a member of your municipal board and the president of the DSS Election Staff. What is the greatest evil at the moment, it is the chairman of the Municipality board Mirjana Mitrovic, most likely you know, who directly participates and orders these directors to give all school work to the firm "Juka Colors". It is interesting that Mirjana Mitrovic was being prosecuted for abuse of position and conflict of interest, so I would like you to intervene and see what this is about, and I am also asking you as a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5810	The word has been made by MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5811	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, one great Serb, I dare say, perhaps, the greatest Serb, Milos Djuric, a professor of ethics, left us all with a short, clear and eloquent thought: "I teach ethics, I don't play in a diple." In the name of ethics, which, we witness, is a rare guest, even, under the roof of this house, and especially because of the defense of the dignity of this famous man, Đurić, who, together with academics, began from President Aleksandar Belic, historian Viktor Novak, Vasa Čubrilović, to the famous biologist Ivan Đaja, was a prisoner of the concentration camp in Banjaca, room 36, I would like to ask the Minister to be asked the next question. The Serbian march in Novi Sad was announced on October 7th, at 5:00 p.m. I'm asking the camera to record this. I ask you, Mr. Minister, but also all the MPs of this house, will the Hitlerian bastard still have the right to organize his gatherings in this country, in order to even put people's heads, not rights, under his feet? If that happens, Mr. Minister, and I ask you to, as part of your rights at your disposal, do everything you can not do, I call on the MPs to step in on October 7th to protest, to strike hunger, and then, according to our scenario, to agree on what should be done against them, because this march is marked, no less, than the birthday of Heinrich Himmler, their idol and role model.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5812	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and People's MPs, the Honored Chairman and the Presidency, listening to today's and yesterday's debates and, in general, taking into account Prime Minister Kostunica's exposé in the election of this government, in front of Serbian citizens, as well as in front of all the MPs, one dilemma and I, in line with their powers under Article. 225 and 226, please clarify. Yesterday and today, we had the opportunity to hear very much about European integration, about how this law, as well as the previous law, is just another one in a series of laws towards European integration, while at the same time we have a clear message that Serbia has no intention of continuing towards European integration. This is evident from statements and, in general, from yesterday's appearance by the prime minister's party, which made it clear that Serbia does not want to join NATO. I am very sorry, but for the Western Balkan countries, joining NATO is one of the conditions for the European Union and there is no debate about it. We must understand once that in Europe we cannot follow our own rules. There is a conditionality policy that the EU is leading towards all countries in the accession and pre-accession period and we simply cannot allow ourselves to act in such a way that we want to go to Europe, not NATO, we want this, we don't want that. It just doesn't work that way. So it is clear that Serbia is turning from this path to European integration, which as its goal, this government has drawn for itself. In doing so, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina is not surprised by those who are pulling her off that path, because we have said from the beginning that no government in which Vojislav Kostunica is prime minister can and will never be European, or pro-democratic, or reformist, but we are surprised, in fact, by those who sit in that government, who give a mandate for this, and during their campaign, have outlined the continuation of European integration as the main goal. We are even more concerned, in fact, with those statements coming from the government over this move by Prime Minister Kostunica's party, which say that this party has no intention of reacting to the fact that the prime minister's party has clearly and explicitly given up on European integration. So we had the opportunity to hear from the Deputy Prime Minister of Bozidar Djelic that the DSS's abandonment of European integration cannot in any way endanger the unity and survival of the government." At the same time, we could hear from the defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac, that the survival of the government would be seriously threatened unless the DSS supported Boris Tadic in the presidential elections. The question arises how is it possible that one of the coalition partners in the government has completely given up European integration is not a problem for the DS? At the same time, it is an incredible problem if one of the coalition partners does not support Boris Tadic. So, has the DS remained in power more important than the European future of this country and the future of European citizens of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5814	Thank you. The word has the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5815	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, I must say, on behalf of the SPS, that today we are discussing one for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a very important law and we think it is high time that the Republic of Serbia gets a new law on travel documents, that is, the law that would give citizens of the Republic of Serbia new travel documents. It's 2007, it's been more than four years since SRJ disappeared. For those forgetful, to remind them, it is about the state the DOS said would exist, because they will provide an agreement with the Republic of Montenegro, an agreement that will be optimal for both Member States and that citizens will be able to live peacefully. It was then said to be a democratic issue, so when the democratic forces call for power in Serbia, the issue will be resolved. Later we got the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the travel documents remained the same, and with this state union of Serbia-Montenegro, what happened with the previous so-called. The democratic forces have failed to preserve the common state, even they can say that some of them have worked hard to ensure that such countries do not exist and have, undisputedly, succeeded. They succeeded in not only the fact that Montenegrins alone, of course, declared themselves independent by a referendum, but also by absolutely propagating the idea of independent Montenegro and the separation of Serbia-Montenegro here in Serbia. Of course, formally, it is the right of every country to decide its fate, but from the point of view of the fact that over 30% of Montenegrin citizens who have declared themselves Serbs and how important it was for both Serbia and Montenegro to be in one common state. In any case, we can conclude that these two countries have disappeared, as have the great Yugoslavia before, that travel documents have been valid all this time and we have come to a paradoxical situation for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia travelling to have travel documents of a state that does not exist. On the side of what they were technically, i.e. What quality the documents were, but such a travel document was definitely, during the journey of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia abroad, causing some confusion, both formal and legal. I must say, at least, I regret that this red travel document will go into history, not only as a symbol of a good state that united all Serbs in one country and was, at least at that time, a state that served many in the world as an example of a country where different nations and national minorities could live together, but also as one symbol of freedom of travel in the world. The passport was then at a high price, and many abroad were trying to reach the passport of the great Yugoslavia because it enabled them to travel around the world. On the other hand, I can say, at least if the minister has any ear for the colors of the flag of the Republic of Serbia, that the new passport will also be red, if he respects those colors that have the flag of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, it is good that the Republic of Serbia finally gets its passport and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal to all other citizens of the world when using that travel document. I think it's bad that the law doesn't contain any closer determination of the contents of the travel document. I'm not saying this by accident. When we adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you saw it there, in Article 7. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that closer appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem will be regulated by law. If these three symbols of the Republic of Serbia are regulated by law, then the travel documents law could also find a solution for the appearance of a travel document to be regulated by law. I do not think the government, or the Ministry, will do anything that will be contrary, but there is no valid reason for this issue not to be governed by the law, especially which, on one hand, will certainly be the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have heard some other interesting ideas from fellow Members of Parliament, who have discussed this subject, and we will see what it will look like, but it is always better to have this solution contained in the law, not to be the subject of some regulation or some regulation made by the minister. The second thing, these biometric data are part of this travel document. We saw, when the Police Act was passed, in that section relating to personal documents, that it was also prescribed to use these biometric data. However, the government later, under public pressure, first of all, the Serbian Orthodox Church, adopted a regulation that gave citizens of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to speak for themselves whether or not they would use that famous chip as part of the data containing a personal ID. In this case, there will be no dilemma, at least I think, because that's the way this travel document is made, the passport, something that's being set up as a condition and for its use abroad. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen if the state of Serbia were again under the pressure of the SPC. Although, of course, I don't think of the SPC as bad, far from that, we already have a few times in our recent past situation that on some things the SPC gives its opinion, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts it, which shows that there is still no separation of state and church in our society. One example is this regulation on personal correction, and another -- this already famous example of the removal of VAT on baby equipment. When MPs, from different parliamentary groups, felt that it was good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or for children, to remove VAT on clothes, shoes and food for babies, the majority of parliament, the ruling majority did not consider it necessary, but when Patriarch Pavle asked them to abolish the VAT, they made a decision. So far, we only have a decision that, of course, has no legal validity, because it has yet to be passed into the law, so we're going to see if there's going to be anything similar about this issue. When it comes to applying for minors, I would ask Mr. Secretary just to give us one explanation. In Article 29. The bill on travel documents is explained, but I must say that it is not clear whether every minor, including small children, babies and others, who are already on a trip abroad, with parents, will, of course, have a special travel document. So far, there has been a solution for children to be found, by name and last name, either through the image, on the passport of one of the parents. The question now arises whether a special travel document will be needed for each child. I think the Ministry could tell us, Mr. Minister, whether there is any idea how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have travel documents. I'm not saying this by accident. We know how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have per census, but it would be interesting to hear how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have travel documents, in order to adopt or draw a certain conclusion, as the desire to travel is constantly discussed, so that we can see how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have passports. How many of those who have travel documents... Thank you. The minister will then, when he gives the final word, and the others will say it, I've heard it, that I don't abuse this pay phone that way. It would be good to hear, too, from Mr. Minister, how many people have diplomatic passports for various reasons, since there have been several colleagues asking whether there is a possibility that, possibly, there is an abuse of the diplomatic passport in various ways. The question is also Article 9. A bill that speaks of family members who have the right to a diplomatic passport for these trips. I think that the issue needs to be clarified a little bit, as well as Article 10 - which are the highest state officials concerned with the provisions of the travel documents law, as I see in the bill that it was left to the government, that it was not regulated by the law. The SPS appreciates that special attention should be paid to protecting, using and delivering data containing travel documents. I think it is necessary to make this very clear and explain, so that there is no possible misuse of the personal data contained in the ID. In the end, I think it is good that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt a law on citizenship that will give all Serbs outside Serbia the opportunity to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Today, on the Committee on Justice and Administration, we had a statement on the amendments, and the government accepted the amendment of one of our colleagues from the DSS. The amendment, which the DSS colleague submitted, is identical to the amendments of the SRS and the SPS, at least in spirit, does not have to be every letter. I am saying this for the reason that these citizens, or all people who gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, will be in a position to get a travel document from the state of Serbia. I think it's one step to say hello.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5816	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Jocic was not in the O.R. before the end of the afternoon debate. Given that, Mr. Minister, yes, under Article 93. Rules of Procedure, you need to come out now and answer our remarks, if you could listen to me, Minister. It's all right, but I have to ask you specifically to ask for a concrete answer. Did they pass it on to you? No, they're not. So it wasn't Mr. Todorovic. The SRS amendment submitted by Mr Nemanja Sarovic, which should specify the appearance of the passport, absolutely detailed what the passport should look like, a travel document. So, in addition to the biometric chip, 125 times 85mm, to be dark blue, to have the golden coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia and to write -- the Republic of Serbia, below that in Serbian, English and French -- passport. I told you today, in the afternoon part of the session, that you should tell us, if you're already authorized under the law to come up with the look of a passport, it's this other key thing, what it looks like, and where a biometric chip is going to be put, whether it's going to be like an American passport -- on the cover of a passport, or it's going to be on the other side, on the other side. I suggested that on the other hand, it is one that is not plasticized, which is cardboard, instead of coat of arms, which would be here in gold, immediately after the opening of the passport, be the map of the Republic of Serbia. This, and by the looks of passports, if you already have an idea, you will tell us that you have, confirm the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, the indivisibility of Serbia and the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, it is likely that, Mr. Minister, you will prevent or refuse the possibility of what Dr. Goran Cvetanovic was talking about, that representatives of the Cypriot national minority, who would for various reasons to come into possession of the Serbian passport, are refusing to accept the possibility, because they would clearly be made aware, and that is what they certainly do not want to accept, i.e. The map that would stand on the other side would say that it was Serbia with all its territory and that it would remain that way forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5818	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask - whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Irrelevant Behavior in Porcelains You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives are authorized on this agenda point, for the SRS - Aleksandar Vucic, for the DSS – NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Željko Tomic and for the Vojvodjanski MEP Group - LSV, SVM - Aleksandar Marton. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5819	As for the final word on the previous law, I thank you for the exhaustive statements. I will adopt amendments, certain amendments to the SRS, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Democratic Party. As far as the passport itself is concerned, it's hard, believe me, to make everyone cheap and do it fast, but we'll make sure that we do some of it, though. Now on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. These changes are a complete implementation of the provisions of the European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior by viewers at sports events, especially at football matches. The state of public order and peace regarding sports events has been constantly monitored since the adoption of this law since 2003, so we could see what the shortcomings are, how it should be complemented and defined by the phenomena that are present at sports games. So, there has been a sighting of the emergence of new and modification of existing forms of anti-legal behaviour that remained out of reach of the law, especially the gathering of fans long before the start of the sports event, the transfer of violence to the environment of the sports facility, violent behavior and leaving the sports event, and the unhindered are the players and officials of the perpetrators of criminal acts. Also, there has been an increase in misbehaving and violence against fans, rarely accompanied by fatalities, severe physical injuries, causing enormous material damage and violations of public order and peace. In addition, various interpretations of certain concepts such as a sports facility, a theatre, and the view that it is necessary to prove the intention of committing a crime are present in court practice. Often, the intention is impossible to prove. All this imposes the need for this bill to introduce new obligations and responsibilities for sports clubs and their players, officials, directors' services, new powers of the Ministry of Interior, more severe legal qualifications of criminal actions, as well as stricter criminal policies, by prescribing the length of criminal sanctions and the maximum determination of fines for violations. The proposed measures concern not only fans, but all participants in sports events, in order to strengthen the general prevention that this law should achieve and thus contribute to general security. Just for a little while, some newspapers that are present in this law. It changes the time of the sports event, from 90 minutes, to 120 minutes before it begins. The concept of the theatre is introduced, it is a decorated space on a sports facility designed for the accommodation of viewers, meaning the stands, i.e. the space next to the sports field intended for viewers, if the object has no stands. The concept of accompanying space, sanitary, wardrobe, storage space, as part of a sports facility, is added. The second group of newspapers is one that increases the duties and obligations of all participants in sports events, including sports associations, sports companies, clubs and officials. Obligations are added to the director's service, the organizer's obligations, too, and the obligation of a visiting sports club. Some powers are given to the MUP, that it can order groups of fans to move in certain directions, that it can prevent the arrival of a sports event, if the group is prone to violent behaviour and can also be prohibited from holding a sports event if it is not acted under the orders of the MUP. One of the newspapers is the ban not only on selling, but also on alcohol consumption, at a certain, fully defined distance, which has not been the case so far in the existing law. Criminal provisions are tightened and any unauthorized entry into the sports field is punished. Many violation provisions become criminal provisions, including entering, damage to sports facilities where sports events, equipment and others take place. Criminal sanctions are increasing, and increasing the sentence to five years in prison allows for the detention of all. It's about the new law. I claim that these amendments and additions to the Law were done by closely following everything that happened between 2003 and today. The gaps have been analysed so far and simply the MUP has made certain proposals, along with other ministries, to extend the circle of responsible persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5820	In accordance with Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the session will be extended after 18 hours until the end of this agenda. Does the rapporteur, Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Defence and Security Committee, MP George Mamula, want a word? (No) Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, Jadranko Vukovic, Milorad Buha, Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many misunderstandings and it took a lot more reflection, I would say, conversations and listening to other people's opinions before you went public with the amendment and addition of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. In fact, you know about the basic objection of the SRS, in principle, when it comes to the so-called SRS. to secondary legislation, especially when it comes to criminal-legislative matter. That should be avoided at all costs. Today we have dozens of laws in which you have prescribed criminal-legal norms, there will be criminal acts described and special criminal sanctions. God’s father no longer grasps what laws you have and whether a man can apply only the Criminal Law or how many other laws he has to consider in order to legally qualify certain crimes. I will especially talk about protective measures that the minister did not speak of, and whose tightening is foreseen by this law. So, let's start with the general social circumstances, the familiar topics that I would characterize with the syntagm - violence in stadiums and other sports facilities. Does anyone feel comfortable when it happens? It's not. No one wants to think about what's going to happen to them when they send their children. No one wants any athlete to be threatened. No one wants any man, at any point, in any job, to care for his own safety. These are all reasons why there is no doubt that every normal, every reasonable and rational man would accept something to do in improving the safety of ordinary people, but the proposal for this law carries many contradictions. Namely, you're this law fans, and I used to be one of them, so I can tell you that these people will feel it, and not those who go to the stadium because they think they need to make a mess, but because they love a particular club, whether "Star", whether "Partizan", whether "Hyduk" from the Tower, "Working" from Nis, "Progress" from Kruševec, it's all the same, put into certain norms. If I could just ask you for a little attention, since I don't think it's particularly important who he's rooting for right now, I think it's a lot more important what standards are being passed on and it's important that these people know that. I hope you've read, Mr. Minister, a member of the 20th law and changes and additions of that member, which is a member of the 7th that you're changing, in which we have an inserted sentence that I'm going to come from, which I think is scandalous. It's okay, all of this -- who unauthorizedly enters the sports field, so tell us -- that's practice in England, well, ever since they introduced it, there's no more entry into the field of fans who want to deal physically with players, etc. But what do you need, Minister, this part of "who, by his behavior or paroles, is causing national, racial and religious hatred or impatience"? A nice constitutional norm, but the problem is that it says, "Who in the group commits a crime under Article 1 will be punished by imprisonment from one to eight years, and by the ringleader by a group of up to 10 years in prison." So if someone yells "I hate Cibona," you can qualify it, and I'll prove to you that you can handle your own case. Now you'll hear, I'll prove it to you. Who shouts "I hate Cibona," will you sentence him to eight years in prison or 10 years in prison? Which murderer or criminal, those who have damaged the state by hundreds of millions of euros, have you sentenced to a year's imprisonment, not 10 years' imprisonment? Are you going to judge the children of 18, 19, who in their passion will say, "I hate Dinamo," or who will yell "rebels"; that's why you're going to say they hate the Ustashas. What's wrong with someone hating Ustashas? You will condemn him to 10 years in prison. Why didn't you condemn this, as the defendant today said in a special court procedure -- a million and a half euros in hand to Cedomimir Jovanovic for the kidnapping of Miroslav Miskovic, and the money went to Zoran Djindjic, and then for the smuggling of cigarettes? What are you guys doing? It's a million-and-a-half euros, doing what they wanted, as they wanted, no one, and here, because someone's gonna yell "the Ustasha," provoked who knows what kind of behavior, or "I hate Cibona," or anything else, will decide to get 10 years in prison. Will you punish those who shout "Kosovo's Heart Is Serbia" tomorrow? Do you want me to tell you why the FK "Partizan" and "Partizan" fans were punished? I'm a star. So they were only punished for shouting "Ratko Mladic" and "Kosovo is the heart of Serbia" in the middle of the broad hill. That's why they're wearing Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic's T-shirts. Were they the ones who threw stones at domestic fans? They didn't. They fought back. Why are they guilty? They're guilty of what you're talking about here. You're introducing us through this law the worst kind of verbal delinquent, just waiting for new changes and additions in which to write -- you can't whistle to someone from the ruling majority. That's funny to you. It's funny to you, ask these people if they think it's funny that they can be punished with eight to ten years in prison because they're gonna yell "I hate Dinamo," "I hate Cibona" or anything else. That's what you've put in with these changes and supplements. Let me ask you-- who got you eight and ten years in prison? I'll give you a few examples from court practice. Those who cold-bloodedly kill taxi drivers in Belgrade, just to hear it, Mr. Minister, for court practice in the first degree, when I say cold-blooded, means that in a special criminal way they shoot a man in the head, throw him out of the car, leave him to die for three, four or five minutes, get 10 years in the first degree. Since they have a lawyer who was once a Supreme Court judge, he set up with the Supreme Court judges to reduce that sentence in the second degree to eight years. He'll be out in five years. I'm asking you, is that the same thing, dear friends, as when someone says "stoppers" or don't know what? Is this the same social danger in being a criminal, primarily appreciates social danger, is that the same danger? It's not, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be, it can't be. I know a lot of people agree with that. What do you mean, "what does someone cause impatience"? He gets eight years in prison, which causes impatience! What do you want to turn sports sites into? So she doesn't cheer? That it doesn't look like anything to end cheerleading clubs? That no one is allowed to bring a child, to worry about a child cursing anything or to say something that might cause any of the competent state authorities to get in the way, so let's go to an arrest, never get out of jail? All this stuff you wrote, even adding, I guess that you're courting someone in Europe, I don't know why you did it, I really don't get it, because you already have everything in basic law, you have it in Criminal Law. What did this mean to you? What was that for? What do you use to increase these protective measures, that someone doesn't have the right to attend sports events from three months to one year? You know how it used to be done, so now I'm wondering if you're introducing the same principles. In his time here, in the city's SUP, he was a radio man, he was very brave, but the policeman who was on the evil side of us fans, Natasha knows because her brother, I suppose, was in custody, like everyone else, there's no man that that man didn't bring in, and that's why he loved to bring people in, which is why I cited that example. It's about a certain Abraham. He walks into your hall and as someone says, "I hate Cibona," the route, brings two or three, three slaps, march out, I won't see you for another year. For what? You don't know what to do. About the same thing you're going to do now. Let me tell you, I forbid my son to yell "I hate Dinamo" or "I hate Cibona," and you make sure he's eight or ten years in prison, whatever you want, if it's eight or ten years in prison, no matter what I suppose he doesn't hate them, but he just doesn't like them. What if he loved them? But, well, that's consistent with cheerleading songs. You have illogical provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5822	Use another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5823	Thank you, Mr. Beard. You have many illogicalities. Mr. Minister says, precisely now it is defined in which diameter and in which circle alcohol should not be used. Says Mr. Minister, it's a few hours before the start of the sports event, hours after the start of the sports event. May I have your attention, please? Look at the next thing. You in the arena have the match Novak Djokovic - Layton Hewitt. You've got a mile from there of Hayat and Intercontinental. In Hayat, you have the most important delegation to visit our country. There's no alcohol. You can't drink at the Hayatt or the Intercontinental. What nonsense do you bring in this country? What are you guys talking about? What's all this nonsense? Who's going to ban any official from taking you to Hayat, and now you're telling him he can't have a glass of liquor?- I'm sorry. What are you talking about? This is such nonsense that I really can't comment on them. What are you going to do, at Marakana some game, and at the George restaurant a complete diplomatic court. Then some cop will come and tell the American ambassador, come on, you, get out, you can't drink the bourbon you ordered anymore. It'd be fine, but it won't, and it can't. For those of the US Embassy, the law will not apply, but on Serbian fans they will live as long as they want. I'm asking you, is that true or not true? Does that say it in the law or not? Well, it says in the law. That's why we, Mr. Minister, have been reducing your mileage in the amendments and we've been looking a little bit to cut that time short, so that it doesn't go to its other extreme. That it doesn't get funny to every ordinary man, that people don't make fun of legal provisions. Not to tell you that I've been thinking about it, imagine, at some basketball game in Arena, you have a reception at SIV, it's a big state holiday, Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia, and you can't serve alcohol because SIV is less than a kilometer away from Arena. You've come up with the legal proposals you're going out with in front of the National Assembly, because the purpose of your legal proposals is I'm going to deal with the hooligans. It's okay, there's a criminal law for that, you can punish anyone by criminal law in different ways. You have as many norms as you want. What's this about? This came in from UEFA, I heard a genius say -- we have to, if we're already for this Europe, all European standards to apply. We were just in Brussels at a Belgian-Serbian game. I didn't see any of those standards there. Don't throw - what was the result, it wasn't good, but it was better than 6:0 for Argentina when Tadic was at your game. I can tell you that we who visited Vojislav Seselj, so went to that game, did our best to cheer for ours, and those of you who were there, representing us in the EU, in NATO, did not see them rooting for Serbia. Whether she gave Serbia a goal, if she gave Belgium a goal, it doesn't matter to them. It's the same to them, whoever gives them the goal, whatever he gives them the goal, neither rejoice nor grieve. We have grieved, but so does the Serbs who cheer for their country and for their homeland. You say it's very important, Mr. Minister, because it will prevent further unrest. I remind you of one crime that we have in our criminal code, which is a crime of participation in a group that commits violence. This is, by the way, a crime for abuses committed in the amendments and additions of the Law in 2003. It served DS representatives, above all, to persecute those who would gather in different ways at meetings, against regimes, above all, if they tried to prevent someone from arresting a certain person in an anti-constitutional manner and delivering it to The Hague tribunal. I will remind you that this act has found its special application after the arrest of Veselin Sljivancanin, when a joint criminal report has been filed against dozens of persons, and then the indictment is brought against each individual. I happen to be one of the people that was charged. For what? Did I hit a cop? Did I stand up to him? I didn't. They proved in court, there's a photo of a cop hitting me, I didn't want to fight back. I could have, but I didn't want to, because I respect him, his bread, his uniform, everything else, and because I knew he was nervous, that he was under pressure, that he got a bad warrant from the authorities, that he was doing it reluctantly, etc. The man confessed, apologized to me. I told him I didn't want to go after him for anything -- it's your job, you keep doing it, I understand you completely. He says, but it's your fault you were here. There was someone who was committing violence, and so were you. So, dear friends, the government is passing such a law that you can be in a group of 100 people who yell "supervised" to not say a single word, and that each of you can be punished by eight years of imprisonment, absolutely every one, because of the inaccuracy of the legal standards with which you went to the MPs, by showing that it's important for you to be able to apply the force you want, whenever you want, arbitrarily, because I'm quite sure that's impossible at every moment and in every way you want to, and that's not a European principle. I have to point out the following facts. At all the battles in Croatia, he plays "Star" against "Zapresic", he plays "Partizan" against "Cibone", anyone, the basic password that is heard is "Serbs on willows", or "Kill, Kill, Kill, Kill a Serb". How come they don't get eight years in prison for that? I don't say anything about Croats here, I say about Ustasha, which is something else, it's not a nationality. How come they can say, "Kill, kill, kill a Serb," "Serbs on willows" and make it merciful, beautiful and their reporters, and don't let God make the Serbs say "rests", not Croats, I guess not all Croats are Ustashas, but we're talking about ideological belongings, so he yells, "rests," and you're going to arrest him and ten years of slavery to give him? Where's that? You have the same case at the Sarajevo stadium, same case at individual stadiums in Podgorica sometimes, and especially a little further, at the stadium in Tuze, etc. So I ask you, where is this European principle applied to you, in what way, in which place, or are you Serbs going to live here, and everyone else will continue to do their job against both our people and against our fans? I have to say again, in order for there to be no doubt, we are against any incidents and riots at sports events. All perpetrators should respond and be punished, all perpetrators of any misdemeanor and participants in any kind of violence. But that doesn't mean that people who are going to have a different opinion, because of the verbal delinquency, because of the words they're going to say in the stadium, you have to punish them with eight or ten years of imprisonment and that only the state is living on them, and that some people can kill on the streets of Belgrade, on the streets of Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, every other day, and get five years in prison, while the biggest thieves and criminals, here today, we've been listening to it, which they've had in their hands, 1.5 million euros for just one hijacking, you've heard probably, Mr. Minister, as it seemed, haven't been punished. Now, my child, who's going to yell from the "Star" North tomorrow, or Tommy's grandson, who's going to yell from "Partizan's" south -- "I hate Dinamo," or anything else, in such a way as to punish and say, "Come to prison, you two, because you are the biggest problem in Serbian society." It's not those people's fault that the state has a lot of problems in all the fields, which the state doesn't know how to solve these problems, which the state doesn't know what they're going to do with it, what the state is going to do with us on the official trip to Kinshasa, so all the cars break down on fans. So, "yes" against violence, but certainly "no" against ordinary people, "no" to those who would punish a verbal delinquent, those who would punish a different opinion, those who would punish an even more free opinion, but certainly, "no" that this act has a greater social danger than any disorder, of murder, of the most serious thefts, of the muggings and other criminal activities that are not being punished in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5824	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5825	I understand, Mr. Beard. In that sense, it is necessary to find the right measure, to protect ordinary citizens from abusers, to protect ordinary citizens from those who want to cause riots, but, at the same time, to free people from the fear that they must not shout at what they think or feel, to free them from the fear of taking their children to the game and to tell them -- now shout and do what you want and do what you want, just don't threaten anyone else in any way. With what you're doing, you're just gonna drive all the people from the sports fields and events, no one's coming to you alive, and our stadiums are, unfortunately, something bigger than the theater. We won't be able to fill them ever, and they're staring at us empty anyway. Now these people who love football and basketball, who are the most fiery supporters of their clubs, will be further driven away, and I fear that some, as an example of your determination to apply European laws, will end up with three, four, five or six years in prison, and that murderers, criminals, the worst thieves, will still not only walk freely in Serbia, but manage Serbia, manage its resources and continue to poverty its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5826	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS-NS Group Zeljko Tomic. Mr. Batic, you'll be the authorized representative on this point? After Mr. Tomic, the word has been authorised by LDP official Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5827	I did not want to talk about the law, as it is said, from the first, but after Mr. Vukic's presentation, I must react. Mr. Wolfie, you've replaced the thesis very dangerously. When the law says that national, racial and religious hatred is caused and that it is subject to a certain kind of sanctions, you have given examples – 'I hate Ustasha', 'I hate Cibona', 'Kosovo is the heart of Serbia'. That doesn't cause either of these three things. (Alexander Vukic): What causes it? ) Here, specifically to tell you. If it were to be heard, "I hate Croats," who's saying that, it must be answered in a certain way. If you hear it, "I hate black people," and it has to fit in a certain way. If you heard it, "I hate Catholics," too, but it doesn't say anything -- 10 years in prison. Don't talk to me from the scene, I'll tell you what it says. He's going to be jailed from six months to five years. That's right below this text. In the second part, whoever commits a crime in the group under Article 1, they will be punished by imprisonment from one to eight years. The verbal delinquent isn't as verbal as you've listed it. The challenge of national, racial and religious hatred is also encouraged by the cry of certain paroles, which offend or irritate certain types of people, such as various nationalities, various races and religions. It's decaded and clear in this law and, in general, in the Constitution. As for the Mostar case, which you mentioned, you were absolutely right, you're absolutely right, but there's one big mistake you've made. The FK "Partizan" is not sanctioned by the Serbian judiciary but by the UEFA. As correct or incorrect as that was, we still have to evaluate. I agree with you that it's too strict. I think the FK "Partizan" was completely unworthy of being kicked out of the UEFA Cup. It remains on the conscience of the UEFA, not the Serbian judiciary or the police to abide by this law. What is important to point out is that Serbian police, police police in Belgrade, police in Serbia at all, and I'm not saying that because the minister is from the same party as me, but in the last decades, has not allowed any more serious incident for a few dozen years, when it comes to international matches, when it comes to clubs coming from abroad and also from former SFRY territory. Our stadiums are relatively empty, but this cannot be attributed only to the bad behaviour of fans, but also to a certain kind of quality of sport itself in Serbia and, of course, to a poor material situation. Repeat, national, racial and religious intolerance or hatred are a very clear category. I made it clear to you, Mrs. Radeta, and no one said it. Just to tell you, don't mix what the UEFA has determined and what the Serbian judiciary has possibly done in these areas, in Serbia's premises, or the competent authorities have done. You've done it very, very trendyly, and that's what I resented you for and for which I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5828	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit I didn't understand what Mr. Tomic was trying to say. And why didn't I understand? The moment he said I hadn't told the truth, he read one attitude saying he'd be punished by a prison of six months to five years. When you cheer in the stadium, you're usually not alone in the stadium. There are at least three men in the stadium, not to say that there are usually thousands of people. And I have read it to you in detail: who in the group commits a crime, then there is always a group, unequivocally, without exception; for I know not any but Misha Vashko, who will take anything and that he himself is no man on the sphere of the earth I do not know. "Whoever commits a crime in the group under Article 1, will be punished by prison from one to eight years. "The following point is: "The ringleader of the group who committed the crime described in Article 1..." "They will, I guess, determine who the ringleader is by whether he's a cheerleader leader or by shouting it first. He'll be punished by prison from one to ten years in prison. So the maximum penalty for this act is 10 years in prison. You told us here - when you mention Ustashas, it's not an insult on a national basis. I'm going to remind you of the DSS statement about some of the calls that were made about certain Ustashas, so you said they were offensive on a national basis. You said that here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, leading the hunt against Zoran Krasic and other SRS MPs. That's what your clients used to say. So, when you hear it, you're standing up in the stadium, you're going to jail. That's because she thus interpreted DS, DSS, G17 plus and all the other parties, you even went so recklessly and rudely, not you, but some other parties, asking for a ban on working because of the cause of national hatred, and that no one mentioned any kind of kin, no member of the nation, no religion, but just ideological commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, that's the essence of things. I guess there was another reason why the "Partizans" fans were punished, because the moment they started throwing stones at them, the police, not to say this or her, but, well, the Ustasha police in the broad hills, it wasn't national, so when the police started beating up the Partizana fans, they started yelling -- Boris, apologize. Perhaps that was an additional reason to agree with the UEFA, to punish them further. I'm counting on them to apologize for beating them, throwing stones at them, and I don't know what they were doing. So when we play with words, I don't play in a dangerous way. Whoever's playing with it, he's acting dangerously. This to every man, and to my child, and to your child, this kind of inaccuracy and indiscretion, can be struck by the head tomorrow. So, once again, anyone who causes riots, anyone who enters the field, who wants to attack a player, a football player, a basketball player, a coach, anyone, punish by proper punishment, everyone, without distinction. But forgive me, I beg you, for saying words, even curses and insults in the stadium, it is pointless for the prescribed sentence to be ten years in prison. Don't forget, Mr. Tomic, ten years is the maximum sentence prescribed. The maximum prescribed sentence of ten years is for a young man 17 years old, 11 months old and 29 days old, and he killed five people. Came and cold-blooded killed five people. The maximum prescribed sentence for him is ten years in prison, which he won't get, because in the Supreme Court he'll find some extenuating circumstance, it'll be eight years, and after five years on the street, whoever committed the five-time murder. And you're gonna because someone yelled something at the stadium to punish him with ten years in prison! God forbid he's a returner, so the second time he dares to yell, "I hate Cibona," or they get up, or "Dinamo" or anything. He's been gone for ten years. No one's been defending him alive. It's dangerous stuff and it has nothing to do with fiction, with the distortion of facts, and it's not an attempt to win over fans' voices. I'm sure, like most people, that most of these people, of course, vote for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5830	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5831	I thank Mr. Albianic. I'm out of time. I will not abuse your good will to allow me these five minutes to respond to Mr. Tomic, but, in any case, I invite you once again, Mr. Minister, to think about this, because I don't think you'll get anything, regardless of all the arguments, and it won't be easier for the police; only the passion between the people who come, the negative passion that exists between the people who come to the games and all those who are supposed to record such, ravings, accidents, screams and cries will be needlessly great, or greater than today's case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5832	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, member 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Tomic, I think you've replaced thesis. This is why I'm reporting under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Vukic, in the most argumentative way, without any persuasion, based on personal experience and what is happening, spoke of the proposal for this law. I think you're wrong, because this law is induced by such policies and decisions by UEFA, because UEFA has been rigorous in its position, especially in these last unfavorable events, precisely because of the fact that someone needed our clubs to be punished, which is an attack on Serbian sport, not to enter these segments, but, on the other hand, it is very serious that such provisions were introduced into our legislation and that it has nothing to do with it, as Mr Vukic told you, with positive criminal-legislative law, which in the Criminal Code clearly defined what the provisions are. I followed this discussion closely, especially when Mr. Wolfie spoke. When you later went out to speak, the MPs asked you from the bench for some specific provisions, especially for the one concerning the shouting that spreads racial, national and religious hatred. You said it didn't matter. You acknowledge that this is not true, since it is impossible for it to happen in Serbia, and it does not happen, thank God, because the Serbian people, above all, are a people who respect freedom of opinion, faith, belonging to the nation and every other freedom. It's prescribed, we talked about it in the Committee on Defence and Security, it's a completely prescribed provision from UEFA, which has such rigorous measures and has punished our leading clubs. When specifically the MPs from the bench ask you, on several occasions you have been told by Mr. Vukic, and you yourself are going to these sports events, then answer us - will fans or fans in a group who are scandalous at football matches - "We will defend the General from The Hague tribunal"? Tell us, is this a punishment if these other examples were not credible, or similar, and is it because of this or because of wearing shirts with the markings of General Mladic or Radovan Karadzic's characters, which fans wear and proudly exclaim their names? This is a concrete example for you, because you just said, speaking to Mr. Vukic - give a concrete example. These are concrete examples. Is that a warrant on the side, maybe from Carla del Ponte or any mentor, a trustee, that something like that will be done, so patriotic cheerleading will be banned on the streets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5834	The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5835	I think those who have had objections to this last sentence - who, by their behavior and their paroles, are causing religious hatred or impatience, are right. It's pretty wide-ranging, and I agree with that. This either needs to be removed, or it needs to be specified. I think the parent board should do it, see if it's getting away with anything else or just this other part, but it needs to be specified. I agree with the fact that only the shouting of certain parolees cannot result in this kind of punishment, unless a great consequence arises from it. We'll see and we'll make a suggestion. Perhaps the parent board should propose an addition of this member by detailing the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5836	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Vladan Batic, an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5837	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our group of MPs had the intention to support the bill, but after this subsequent declaration of love by the Minister of the Interior, we must consider until this so-called Correction, because this very provision is something which is a civilizational fluid and a European standard and which has also encouraged us, as a parliamentary group, to support the proposal for this law. The goal of every law of this species is double. On the one hand, the law should have a preventive fact, but, on the other hand, it should have a repressive fact. When it comes to the behaviour of fans in the stadium, we must always remember the already anthological gesture of Margaret Thatcher in England and remember that the stadiums in England were the scene of the hooligans, with total chaos and hundreds and thousands of injured, that even there were wires between the audience and the football field. Then Margaret Thatcher, with her apparition, ordered that all this be put away and passed an absolutely rigorous law, so that fear of punishment conditioned that there were no more riots there. I am, by the way, a football lover, but the fact is that our football is dominated by crime. In the past few years, half of the president, the owner and director of the first league in Serbia have been killed, and those working today are surrounded by bodyguards, more than the interior minister. It just shows the state of our football, that's not the point. The theme is, for example, in England, I've had opportunities and opportunities in the last few years to watch several games and unimaginable football incidents. So, in the stadiums there are unimaginable riots. I saw it last year at the Old Traford match Manchester-Seltic. There was a mix of audiences, no wires, no cages, etc. God forbid one fan attacked another physically and something like that. I was looking at the White Hartlein match Totenhem - Chelsea, too. There you can't bring alcohol into the stadium and what the controversy is about. You have to pour coke into plastic glasses and only with a glass that can't be thrown and flies can you enter the stadium. That's right, more or less, everywhere in Europe. The last game I saw was the finals of the young team in Groningen, the game of the Netherlands – Serbia, and nobody thought to insult Serbia and insult our fans. Then we come to the fact that something should be the essence of this law. When it comes to misbehaving, it is no longer an accent on violence and physical accounts, but, precisely, on protection against national, religious and racial hatred. It's the main fundamental part of this law. It has nothing to do with verbal deliction. The Constitution has categorized this institute of national, racial or religious hatred and it is punishable, and in the basic, Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, and in all other accompanying regulations, because it has its foothold in the Constitution itself, regardless of what we do not consider this constitution to be of any special value. So that's one segment. The second is that it can't be a role model for us, some kind of parallel, what fans in Croatia are shouting out: "Kill a Serb" or "Serbs on willows". What now, should we cry out? Right now it should be the other way around, so let Croatia sanction it, if it will, or let it legislate in front of the world with its fans who exclaim those passwords. That's not a sign for us. For us it is a sign of football, competition, sport, chivalry, and not that because of a few dozen or hundreds of hooligans chase all the congratulatory people from the stadium. That's why, among other things, the crime in our football and the hooliganism in our stadiums is such a small field trip. Thirdly, let's be honest with you, Mr. Wolfichu, from one to eight years of age, there's a conditional conviction. I remind you, as a lawyer, it's just a threatened sentence, we know how mild that criminal policy is, mostly, more or less. Therefore, this provision should remain, which is now associated with some European values and standards that we are pursuing. Because if, at an international game played by Serbia, you have a 50m steamer – "The knife, the wire, the Srebrenica", it has to be sanctioned, otherwise, we don't have a way to Europe, but to some dark fairies of the past. If the president of the state, regardless of what anyone thinks of him, is at one interstate game - Serbia - the Netherlands, and within five metres of him, our fans wave the flags on which, on the flag of the European Union, a cowardly cross is drawn, then there is no salvation for us. These are the things we need to deal with and these are the values that motivate us to vote for this law. We'll wait to see, Mr. Minister, because it's absolutely absurd that you propose this law, so you agree that it's wrong and you suggest that the Committee change it, trying to probably court your future coalition partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5838	The word is made by Mr. Dragan Jocic, and then by Aleksandar Vukic, a national MP, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5839	There's no hate, no love, there's just, you know, looking at some shortcomings. I'm surprised, Mr. Batic, you're too romantic when you put everything in the category of love and hate. Simply, no matter what anyone suggested, no regulation was perfect and I just intervened on one sentence, I didn't say the whole law was wrong. They're right, I repeat once again, who have noticed that this provision is quite broad.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5840	We can only replica first, Mr. Jovanovic, that we have, however, some order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Batic said, speaking of what I said, he will not have a hundred or 200 hooligans to determine everyone else. I agree, and I wasn't talking, or we weren't talking about hooligans, we were talking about people who would yell or say something. So we are against any violence and against anyone who would in any way be harassing anyone else, but we are against arresting and condemning to eight years of imprisonment anyone who put a cowardly cross on the flag of the European Union, to get eight years of imprisonment! Man, I don't know what kind of villain would do that. There's no such thing in Hamurabi's code. It's never been anywhere. He put a cowardly cross on the European Union flag, so come on, eight years old, you terrible things! Imagine, a man voiced his political opinion about the European Union, but his sin was waved by Boris Tadic's flag for eight feet. It's his greatest sin. It would take a special attitude to get away with this crime: if you wave such a flag near Boris Tadic, 100 years of prison for the whole family, life-long, but still to be added to him for the whole family. How can you not be ashamed to say such things here? You went to stadiums, like any of us, used to try to win fans over, and now these people are bothering you, because sometimes they're going to express their opinions. When they were supposed to yell against Slobodan Milosevic's dirtyest things, it was fine. Well, it's okay to yell at each of us, and when they put a cowardly cross on the EU flag, then let's arrest them for eight years, then let's arrest them and get any punishment for their express opinion, even though they haven't put anyone at risk. What do you care what I think, or what that man out there, or what any other man thinks something you don't like? Here, I think all the worst about the European Union. What do you care what I think about it? To make me go to jail for that? When you sang "Save Serbia and Kill yourself, Free", it was nice, but it's not nice when someone waved a flag on which the EU's cowardly cross and flag is on, because it marked the EU, thus showing its valuable EU court. I don't care if you don't like their judgment!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5842	Mr. Wolf, there are 12 stars on the European Union flag, there is no cowardly cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5843	Mr. Albianic, I'd like to make a serious comment, but I'm never going after my break, since I know what was going on in the break. I don't want to talk about balloons or anything else right now. I'm not talking about the salary on the board of directors, Mr. Albianich. So it's not what you think, nor do I care about stars, because my, Serbian, red-blue-white flag and I can think whatever I want about the EU, I can think of whatever I want about NATO. Now we have seen what your thinking is: one who is against the European Union, marches into prison, eight years, and one who carries a million-and-a-half euros from Dusan Spasojevic, as they say today in the Special Court, should be at large and salt my mind about how I will behave, that the whole of Serbia has a mind to behave, what should be heard and what should be done. You'll still tell us what freedom is, you'll still tell us about who's involved in crime, etc. Well, he didn't have Tom Nikolic football clubs, he didn't set up games, he didn't need bodyguards. Why don't you look at your coalition, who goes with ten bodyguards. None of us are going. We are ourselves, free people, walking the streets of Belgrade alone, and we have seven times more votes than all of you in that group together. We're going alone because we're not afraid of our people because we don't fear our people, because we think it's important that you go free into your people, because the people are your best judge. Whom will you fear if you fear your people? Mr. Albianic, two more sentences. Please don't throw it away. It's true that there's a crime in football. Who are these criminals, who brought them to run our football? Dossier mode. Which one of these people did some radicals set up? It's not one. Arrest criminals, don't arrest people who think differently from you about the European Union. I knew it. I didn't accidentally tell Tomic what this was going to turn into. I overestimated your intentions, counting on you to be arrested when someone yells, "rest." No, you'll be arrested when someone says "we didn't really like the European Union". What else are you going to do? If anyone says "whoa, European Union", you'll hang on the streets for that. Who knows what will be in this country, but I hope that time never comes. Mr. Minister, I need you to say that at some point you've done something reasonable, even though it's hard for me to admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5844	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5845	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, I acted in accordance with Article 101. Rules of Procedure. You are the last in this hall to have the right to this kind of cynicism to mark your comment on Mr Batic's exposure. Namely, you who have recently been in this House commenting on the obligation of the state to respect the constitutional law, said there is no dance while the state is being saved, you who regulate relations in your coalition by committing yourselves to love the trio, you who speak of Kosovo as the heart and soul of our country, here a serious remark about your subsequent reaction, not the one you have introduced into the law, you make a mockery. Choose what you will respect, whether you will respect these manipulations and abuses that are characterized by a law that is good, or you will respect the Constitution. Everything can be made up, but if we're honest with each other, and this is the topic on which we need to be honest, then we have to ask the question of violence in which those who are pushed into this violence are the most affected. I haven't noticed that in games, whether it's football, basketball, conflict, before and after these sports competitions, anyone else gets hurt except the fans themselves. Who's manipulating them? Why does it come to that? Who allows such a thing? Suffering and the police. These are the people you take care of. We passed this law in 2003, not with the ambition to count against those who think differently, but with the ambition that those places where we show the most violent form of behavior in our society begin to change. But we're still talking about the consequences, not the cause. Therefore, in itself, this law cannot be sufficiently effective if it is an isolated attempt by the state to solve a serious problem. Are we talking about political motives as reasons for the operation and application of this law? If an example of England was used, there was no political dissatisfaction at the stadium. I think there's least reason here to talk about politically motivated violence in stadiums. That is why, there is no need to make these concessions, because the little politically motivated violation of the law in stadiums must be sanctioned, even if it is symbolic, a team before if it is symbolic today, tomorrow it will not be unless it is sanctioned today. What does Article 21 say? The Constitution? ''In front of the Constitution and the law, they're all equal. Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. Any discrimination shall be prohibited, directly or indirectly, on any basis. 'Then that constitution needs to be defined through some law. Unfortunately, these examples we are talking about, which may be funny to someone, are devastating and compromising and produce much deeper damage than can be seen at first sight. Someone's gonna smile, but they're the value systems that bring up generations in this society. No sports competitions are allowed to be the rings on which the accounts will take place, which is the consequence of the system of values created in this society and which, unfortunately, you support, among other things, by simply accepting something that is completely politically motivated and has nothing to do with the essence and the spirit of this law. Of course, any kind of discrimination must be sanctioned, regardless of whether it's a Srebrenica, or whether it's a Bratunec. Any kind of discrimination must be sanctioned. If we agree to this now and give in to it, tomorrow we will face far more serious consequences than those we face today. Leave romance for another chance. You, as Minister of Police, have no right. Remember the Star and Partizan fans' clash after a basketball game. They were all victims, and the audience and the police. Who's responsible for this today? Did anyone answer? It's nobody. Does that mean we agree with that? They were all victims. We're talking about these situations as big warning situations. We don't need worse scenarios than those we went through together as a society. Yes - competitions, but order in the stadium, and before that, order in society, order in Parliament, order in political relations, which must be much more civilized and significantly different. Unfortunately, political life in the country is more rude and cruel than the one we're trying to settle with this law. That's the problem. We deal with the consequences, not the cause. We will not vote for your law if you make this concession and allow someone to violate the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms, by saying that you could not determine the more difficult consequence of this action. Every insult must be sanctioned, especially in a society that has gone through such agony as ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5846	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've said in my earlier presentation that I don't see what you, after a few presentations, have asked yourself to realize that the law is wrong. He says I didn't tell you, man. He looks like a minister to me. So, it's no good for the crucial provision of the law, that's what you said yourself. Mr. Shormaz...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5848	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5849	Well, at least you should never tell anyone. So, Mr. Minister, I couldn't interpret it any other way than with some new love and sympathy. Maybe not, but it's my right. I, too, and you know it well, witnessed your humble legal skills and modest legal talent, but I assumed this was prepared for you by a team of competent people and experts. What? The minister's cursing me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5850	Mr. Batic, continue your exposure, no one has cursed you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5851	That looks like you, Mr. Jocic, to you. Normally, MPs' swearings in Parliament are only one step away from breaking trades. Therefore, the matter is completely normal. Don't make me say other unsympathetic things, but I won't, no matter what, I respect you. Someone can be talented, someone can be untalented, there's no problem. Maybe you're talented for some other disciplines. So I just thought this was a constitutional provision, a constitutional category and something that is a European standard. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Wolfie, I never told you after this pay phone, nor anywhere else, nor did I say, nor did any other MP - shame on you. You've come to me with - shame on you. So, my opinion, Mr. Vukic, when I gave a few examples and said that you saw a 50-metre flag on the interstate game that says "The knife, the wire, the Srebrenica," you didn't comment. I didn't say that someone should go to jail for eight years, that's what you built. I also said that it is not right that everyone in this country is full of stories about the European Union, and then you see cowardly crosses on the EU flag. I didn't say whoever did this had to go to jail, I didn't say that. I'm talking about one phenomenon that's bad for all of us. Would you, Mr. Wolfiche, react if you saw one of our interstate hooking crosses on the flag of Russia, or Ukraine, or Belarus, they must be more pleasant to you? But that's no reason to say-- shame on you either. (Alexander Wolf, from the place: I said - it's a shame. ) Therefore, we remain on that claim -- either the law will remain in this original form, or you can reshape it, Mr. Minister, you, your team, and don't expect that something you submitted to us today, and after 10 minutes you said it wasn't good, we'll change it. You'll change it yourself. So let the MUP change it, to be precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5852	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you, Mr. Batic, not to improvise any throws that weren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5853	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would like to return the discussion, however, on the subject of the agenda -- violence on sports grounds, but, before that, I would like to make one remark. So it is unacceptable for anyone in Serbia to point out the cowardly cross, as well as anywhere in the world. I agree that someone can have their own political stance on the European Union, that he likes it or doesn't like it, but someone who was born in Serbia, who was born in Krusevec, Kragujevac, knows what a cowardly cross means in the history of the Serb people and knows that this cowardly cross killed 1,700,000 citizens of this country. I don't think it's a good idea for anyone or anywhere to point out a cowardly cross and for a cowardly cross to be an argument for showing political views. The hooky cross is unacceptable in the hands of any Serbian citizen, both under the Constitution, and under any other law. Mr. Alexander Vukic has given a very nice amendment to this law when it comes to the emphasis of the parole. I think we should go back to that amendment that Mr. Vukic gave us, find a way to change this bill by amending it, the part that's talking about the scandal, because thanks to the minister, we were on our way to do it, and we're really turning this debate right now in the direction it's headed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5854	MP Alexander Vukitch, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5855	I'd really like you to take a stenogram, I'm saying - it's a shame. So, for sure, I never want to offend anyone personally, but I've expressed my valuable attitude about what you've been saying and that's what I think, which I certainly won't give up, and I suppose you don't know what you're talking about. As far as the cowardly cross is concerned, it wasn't a cowardly cross to glorify a cowardly cross, or to glorifice the Nazis. On the contrary, I suppose that the intention of these people, I don't know who did it, I didn't even see that flag, was that the EU had the same intentions towards Serbia, just like those who enslaved it in 1941, counting on the fact that the EU bombed us in 1999, within NATO and the coalition with the United States, to take away Kosovo and Metohija today, as the Nazis and the ballistics took it away from us in 1941, etc. So I'm pretty sure that's it. As far as certain parolees are concerned, there is no doubt that they are tasteless and unspeakable. It's just about who's going to, how and how much to interpret the law. Any judge can widely interpret any norm, in any way, until he can say, "Here's a hooky cross on your flag, not wanting to read more seriously what whoever did it or wanted to say it." That's the thing we need to change, and I am absolutely confident that the citizens of Serbia understand that. People, when they go to a sports event, they go to have a good time, and they need to be able to do that; they need to be allowed not to be violent, but they should also be allowed to express a little freedom and every kind of opinion. Let me remind you that in 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, there was no sporting event in which, in various ways, not the harassed representatives of the then government were not, not to mention the threats all of them were made and what is all -- not qualified in the best way, but literally, glorifice. So, if you think it's -- "kill yourself, Free" a wonderful song, I have to tell you that I don't, like I don't have a wonderful song or her -- "kill yourself, Kostunica," or any other song. "Save Serbia and kill yourself, Kostunica", "Save Serbia and kill yourself, Boris", or "Save Serbia and kill yourself, Free" or any other. I don't think they're beautiful songs, and I don't think anything nice about our political opponents. But, you see, it was allowed and it was okay. Also, I don't think that because of the singing of any song, nor when the representatives of the LDP did, speaking of Vojislav Kostunica in such a way in front of the Republic Assembly, anyone should be arrested. I don't think any of this should answer, it's his political opinion in a slightly vulgar way, in a slightly offensive way, but it will feel that political party in the elections or not, anyway. Now, that's that attainable level of freedom, which we think must be protected, nothing more than that. That's what we believe everyone in this country has stood for in Serbia. Since we know that we have a difficult time ahead, we will have people, terrible problems, we will have national frustrations, because we know what wonderful politics the President of the Republic and many others are leading us. We can predict what's going to happen to us. If you use such instruments, difficult for us, difficult for Serbia, hard for the entire Serbian people, then we are all ruined. And the fact that someone is full of the mouth of the European Union, because they tell us every day that they love us very much and won't take away Kosovo and Metohija from us, and when the EU as an organisation comes to us as a potential hijacker of Kosovo and Metohija, then they'll grab their heads and try to hide it on RTS, Pinka, B92, etc., that's second, that's also a political question. With stadiums, sports resorts, or theaters, and auxiliary facilities, as it is now regulated by this law, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. I agree that there is a big problem, which must be solved in this country, with those who want to make violence in stadiums, but you won't convince me that they're the biggest problem in this country, that fans are the biggest problem, because we have mobsters in all areas of social life, in all areas of social life, starting with the "energy Mafia," here they are, all at large, every night advertised at B92, each have a little bit of their own addition, and we still don't have that point on the agenda, to discuss them. Why, Mr. Albianic? Because your representative, the DSS representative and the SPS voted in such a way that there was no mob in it. All right, fine. What about the other mob? What about the monopolies in all the spheres of our society today? Some raised question, no more starting that issue. What are we talking about here today? The biggest criminals-- children who are going to kill themselves, get into puberty or I don't know where. Stop them from killing each other, but don't arrest them for shouting two or three offensive words or I don't know what. Understand, we need rational behavior, not revenge, not rematch of one who thinks differently. We need normal Serbia, we need Serbia where there will be room for every child, that my children live equally, and the children of Cedomir Jovanovic, and the grandchildren of Tomislav Nikolic and his children, as well as Boris Tadic and every other man in this country, do not make any difference between them. If we can make such a normal Serbia, then we'll do something. If we fail and if we just arrest, remove and persecute those who think differently, then Serbia has definitely failed, it is only a matter of which day we will announce it to our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5856	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5857	I'm reporting for breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I want, first of all, to address Mr Batic, because I am sure that it is the obligation of every MP to make an adequate amendment to Article 20, i.e. If someone sings songs or waves a flag, the legal variant that they punish up to eight years in prison is not appropriate. I think, however, as MPs, we should fight against abuse of sport policy, and I'll give you an example for that. After October 5, 2000, great efforts are made to use sports, especially football waters by some DOS parties. The most aggressive were small parties, and the best example is the football club "Workic" from Obrenovac, which, under the leadership of Jovica Šurbatovic from Batic's party, has come a long way from the third to the first league in just one day. I am sure that we should fight to move one day from the third league to the first, because it is much more corruption, much greater abuse, such as abuse, and that for a short period of time in the stadium, Batic has made his position in the government possible. For that very reason, we must accept the minister's consent with our remarks, because he saw that a failure was made in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5858	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5859	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported in accordance with Article 101. Mr. Wolf, in fact, misread the subject I was talking about. I've never evened political gatherings and gatherings that deal with this law. We're talking about a law that prevents violence and misbehavior at sports events. If we are to deal with a law that will prevent the same kind of behavior and violence within political gatherings, we are also in the mood, but the examples used are correct. If we agree that these examples are the result of a chaotic time, we cannot use these examples as some kind of justification for accepting and missing the chance to face the causes of these consequences as a society. We're talking violence in sports competitions and in objects, that's what we're talking about. We are not talking about violence between members of the two parties. It is true and I know very well what we were doing in front of the Assembly, and it was a political consequence, in our opinion, of an equally extreme and incorrect political move. Our policy was deinstitutionalized and we fought with our political means and paid the price for it, from conflict with the police, to the support we received or did not get to the extent we wanted from the citizens. We can talk about it, but the LDP didn't go to a football game, to a basketball game, to any other sporting event, and to that point, he was taking his political stances. So here we're talking about something else, we're talking about violence within sports facilities, sports competitions, which should be sanctioned, because, unfortunately, it's the only way to limit it. The victims. I'm sure you remember very well the basketball game and the injuries and the fans and the cops, so you were exposed to criticism because the police responded, and the police said - we can't find those who caused the incident on the stands, we're forced to act in accordance with the orders we get. So, they all got killed, and in the end, no one's responsible. We watched the footage, and I believe the police had no intention of beating the kids and tearing them off the stands. With incredible circumstances and a lot of happiness, no human life has been lost, but we haven't learned anything from it. Clubs manipulate fans, and when the fan stays disabled, the club forgets him. And in our day, the police had information that suggested something like that. That is why we wrote this law in 2003, and we are now calling on you to apply the law in the form in which you submitted it to Parliament, not with the desire to restrict someone's political freedom and right in the context of a sports competition, but let people learn to go to party meetings, so that they can express their political views, whatever they are, and not in sports competitions. If it was ever a rule, let's not have it tomorrow. That's what we want to talk about. To get people back into the sport, we need to create basic preconditions for their safe participation in all of this, and now there is no such thing. If what is not tolerated by the Constitution is tolerated, if the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution are violated, then we are making a big mistake now and therefore cannot support your law. Politics at political gatherings, whatever they are, and within sports, that shouldn't be a place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5860	National MP Vladan Batic, a replica of Goran Cvetanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5861	The point of my presentation from the beginning was to protect the vast majority of fans who come to sports stadiums to follow the competitions, to follow a knight's fight. Do you watch games, say, Spanish, English or other leagues? Full of stadiums, because people deal with sports, women, children, whole families enjoy the joys of life, and here one minority often drives these people away, who, besides expensive cards, besides what follows sports competitions, still experience some kind of mental torture and quite a risk. So, we stand for it, and that's why I asked Mr. Minister to keep this provision in force. One more thing, the truth works. Mr. Cvetanović, you're wrong. I was never a member of any sports collective, as I have never been a member of any board of directors in my life, because I have my principles, but that club you mentioned, "Worker" from Obrenovac, came from the second to the first league after an unprecedentedly correct sports competition and, indeed, with the highest quality in the second football league. As it worked out and worked out, it was, really, with great denials, no money and no dinars, in painful ways, but they don't stand a chance. In modern football, such teams can't be competitive, because here sport, unfortunately, follows something that's huge capital, or worse, big crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5862	MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events is, perhaps, the opportunity to discuss here a category of people who, perhaps unconsciously, participated in something that would later be broken into their heads, especially by passing such laws. I would remind you that in 2000, you performed a five-octobaric coup with the help of those against whom you passed the law today and publicly boasted, leading groups of fans and hordes. One group had a result, i.e. The paper said we won a police station in Padinska Skela. That was our cheerleading contribution. For you today, it's gangs of hooligans, the ones that need to be closed for up to eight years, the ones that need to be detained when sporting events are being held. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that you make a list of those to be detained when the elections are, that they can't go to the polls. You know, in a long time before the SPS, when the rulers visited Serbia, there was a category of people who were then preventively placed in some institutions, so as not to pose a threat. We now, from an idea that we have seen applied somewhere in the West, come to the fact that in Serbia we have a possible abuse of such laws. It seems to me that those fans who were in the front row of the fight for October 5th and who made October 5th might have spent their credit with you as soon as they started to scandal something else at the sports event and as soon as they started voting for someone else. That's why we have one completely illogical situation today. If you'd said this before 2000, who would have done it to you on October 5th? You'd take him out on Kolarce Street, Kolarce's National University, and in the stands and in the salons here, in Belgrade. So this is about one completely wrong concept, which is to put in the bill a whole series of provisions that can be interpreted as freely as the entire Law on the fight against organised crime. Organized crime today is also helping someone not to go to The Hague. That's right, it says in the law. So for you, it's those who don't think someone should go to The Hague members of an organized criminal group as soon as there's more than two of them. Do you know how many are in Serbia today? There are at least a few million, these organized criminal groups, and so now. You're talking about the Law on Preventing Violence. This law will not prevent violence. First, you know that the boards of clubs and fans had a fight inside themselves. Also, there is no motivation for people to fight violence in stadiums, above all, members of the police. Why would they do that? Ladies and gentlemen, they were defending this country, so they went to The Hague. What happens to them if they accidentally hit on a cheerleader leader or a criminal? Why would they react? Come and get out of here, and stop the violence at the sports concerts. Second, you're talking about international games, events, etc. You know what – fans, though, are not like politicians, and I support them in that. I guess someone's gonna act a little manly. I guess they won't let someone spit and beat him, as was happening to our water polo team in Slovenia, and we're here to cultivate good neighbourly relations with Slovenia. They say, "We'll stab you in the back," and we say, "Let's turn our hearts and our hearts," so stick it right in our hearts, not in our backs. Don't ever ask fans to scandal instead of Ratko Mladic or Karadzic, I don't know who else. If anyone in this has any hope or expectation, let's make a deal at the beginning. It will never happen in Serbia that fans scandal Natashi Kandic or Sonji Biserko. Anyway, don't expect it, and I'm against being insulted. We were just talking here about some phenomenon being sanctioned, no matter who the object is or who the target is. When you destroyed power in 2000, everything was allowed. It was allowed to carry guns. Here, some who were MPs here, they led all those fans, with guns, entered factories, into crisis headquarters, into the people's banks, and everything else. Then it was all civilized, and now it's the hooligans, now it's someone to shut down. If it hadn't been for those hooligans, you wouldn't have seen the government for another 10-20 years in Serbia. Now it's dangerous for them to be on the loose, maybe they'll make some new October 5th. In order not to talk too much, the laws are necessary, but such an interpretation can lead to the fact that there is no one on the street in Novi Pazar the next day, because everyone who comes to the game in Novi Pazar, when playing against a Serbian club, I don't think they'll be running any very nice words, or downstairs, at Riza, Bujanovac and Presevo. Thank God, so Bujanovac and Preshevo don't have any teams in the first league. So, I'm sure at a game in Bujanovac or Presevo, if you played "Red Star" or "Partizan" against a team, what's called this football club from Presevo, "Fljamurtari", I don't know what it's called, it doesn't matter, the fans came in and they're running "Kosovo's Serbia," and you'd consider it a provocation, so you'll complain to Minister Jocic and ask him to send you specials and gendarmes because they insult you nationalally. How can they in the heart of southern Serbia, the Presevo Valley, tell such a disgusting lie that Kosovo is Serbia?- I'm sorry. So, I don't mind being led here and having political bickering between political parties, but it's about whether we have a law that's really going to do something in this area to prevent violence at sports events, or we're just going to make laws for the sake of order. I wish this had been discussed with both fans and club representatives. We're all someone's fans, who may sometimes react a little more harshly than we should. Besides, if violence were to be prevented in politics, you know how many would be here who would have to have the status of wrongdoers or those who would have to be under house arrest until the assembly sessions were completed. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia cannot support the tightening of this law unless there is an explanation of what this specifically refers to, because it is a very broad term - which means challenging religious, national hatred, impatience and everything else. After all, national, religious, or any other impatience can cause not only the passwords on Srebrenica or the glory of Ratko Mladic or Radovan Karadzic. As you know, national, religious and all other freedoms can also be violated by a variety of Scandicating or Paroles and against Serbs. I'm not sure you're going to apply these provisions to members of the national minorities when they're doing something like that. So I'm saying, this is about whether we're going to have a law that applies to everything, or we're going to have a law that will be passed just for the sake of order, to fulfil some international obligation, if we have any international obligation in this respect at all. After all, fans from the world come here to Serbia to show themselves because they can't. True, they don't have anywhere to come, because we're not playing these international games unless it's a team game. That's why Serbia should in some way, sometimes, and protect our fans who go abroad. What did the state of Serbia do to protect our fans who were victims, for example, in Slovenia? Ministers had to fight with an audience in Slovenia when playing the water polo team. What were the fans supposed to say, hit us free? Well, they're not like politicians, to say you're right, we're always guilty and we have a sense of collective guilt. Please remember those who brought you into power on October 5, 2000, those who went behind you when you entered factories, institutions, banks and everything else, to form crisis headquarters. If this is how you gave them back, then you need to think a little bit about how it's going to be and if they're going to be looking for a new '5'. October's. As far as we're concerned, we weren't up for it then, we're not up for it now. The government changes in elections, doesn't change with any crisis headquarters. You guys want to use them and then, after that, throw them away. I hope so, and I am convinced that fans across Serbia are now scandalning the names of DOS and those they fought for in 2000. So, Mr. Minister, can you explain this part about the width of the interpretation of it - what is involved in 'provoking impatience, religious, national, and all the other conflicts'? The very intensity of the law is acceptable, but the law, as it's written, can be misused, first of all, for reckoning, and not with political enemies. Besides, you're aware it's 11. Thousands of people at the time of Sabela were detained without any explanation. I believe it would now, too, be 10. Thousands of people could be in house arrest when there's a football game, for participation in a collective act of violence. Afterwards, after October 5th, "Otpor" was the only political organization that had its commercials and panorama at a sports game, at a basketball game at the "Pionir" Hall, after October 5, 2000. And you're talking about you haven't politically abused sports? All you did was come to power. You've all done to come to power, you've just forgotten one thing, that a man has two fists.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5864	National MP Riza Halimi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5865	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of item 226, there should be one MP, in this case the president of a parliamentary party here, to inform of important matters. Presevo can't compete and there are opportunities that Mr. MP presented, because Presevo doesn't have a sports playground for big football and there's no way the audience can get together to have problems like this that would be within the jurisdiction of Minister Jocic. But that's why the minister sent the gendarmes to that field in advance. I'm talking about the Homeland Security Zone, in a slightly wider context. I'm talking about the gendarme now, because special police forces intervene in Belgrade when there are riots, and since there's no possibility of riots in Presevo, we need to talk here about one need. The Vice President's statement, no, the deputy of the very current Coordination Body, which was reconstructed and reorganized without the participation of the representatives of the people to whom the body concerned, was that these days it would not be in these municipalities, not in any of these municipalities, sports centres, because they are regional. Since Vranje region, and an earlier policy, the SPS, when the SPS was in power, was that, firstly, Vranje needs to develop, and then, after that, developed Vranje will develop the others, we wait for Presevo to have a sports center in the future, that there will be a big playground for the big football, which is now gone, and then there will be competitions, and then it is possible, who knows, that there will be a riot. Sports competition, so it could happen. Mostly, for now, the gendarmes are used for traffic patrols, often outside the Homeland Security Zone; Mr. Jocic knows about it, too. I informed about it somewhere in November last year, when, unfortunately, past all the legal provisions, special police forces controlled traffic in Presevo, and sometimes they got into control, unusual house control, at 4 a.m., not by local police, as it was earlier, but exactly, by members of the gendarme.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5866	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5867	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I have no intention of paving my way with Mr. Dacic, just one remark. Before October 5th and before Serbian citizens went to the street, something called the elections happened in this country, on September 24th. These elections were held and that's where the citizens expressed their political will. On the other hand, if we're talking about fans, acting at sports games, just one example, then I'm going to show the book, there's a book called "The Resistance to Police Authority." I can show you what happened at Red Star Stadium. Without law, without political means, the police brutally beat up all the fans in the north, east and south of Red Star Stadium, at the same time they went in synchronisedly and beat up all the people who were in the Resistance T-shirts and who cheered the way you didn't like it at the time. I'm saying, you didn't get knocked down by fans, you were knocked down by the political will of the Serbian citizens, and we unequivocally showed it on September 24th. So October 5th is due to the fact that part of the government at the time did not want to recognise the results of the election. Congratulations to Mr Nikolic, who admitted the election results back then, but some did not want to acknowledge the election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5868	The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5869	Only according to the Rules of Procedure. I think Mr. Halimi misread my words. I don't mind if there's football, and handball, and basketball court in Presevo, I assume there is a Bujanovac. I only object that Mr. Riza Halimi is against the presence of the Serbian gendarme on that part of Serbia's territory. Besides, a few months ago, who, Mr. Minister, were they shooting down at Presevo? Did they shoot one of your Albanian politicians? Did they shoot Bujanovac or Presevo, in the Homeland Security Zone? After all, you will not determine where the Serbian gendarmes will be located in Serbia. It will be where the state of Serbia is threatened. And not you, as an Albanian, but no citizen of Serbia, individually, will determine it, but those of the state authorities who have been paid for it and who have received the people's trust to do so. What would you say if this Department of Defense were going to end the military base of the "Cepota"! All that bothers you. You don't mind NATO soldiers, but you do have a problem with the Serbian gendarmes. Was there any victory in the 2000 election or not? Okay. That was seven years ago. What do we do now? Where were you guys back then? Who are you for today? Who are you against today? When I look at what you're all up to, I ask you, what are you up to and what was it worth fighting for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5870	National MP Alexander Marton, authorised representative of the Vojvodjanski MEPs Group, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5871	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, honourable MPs, the Social Democrats' League of Vojvodina's MPs find tightening the provisions of this law very important. The unloved scenes on the playgrounds, fighting, injured, and dead, obliging us to act. The LSV will support this law. We've heard certain conditions for a while. We will support the law if the provisions of Article 7 do not change, and if there is no rejection or disenfranchisement of this section regarding the emphasis on parols and the challenge of national, religious and racial hatred. I am a member of the opposition political party, but I believe that the opposition political party, when a legal proposal is good, should vote. I don't think there should be any change in these provisions, because that way, to a good extent, the law would be derailed. We really need these things, because in the past 16, 17 years in the Republika Srpska area, there have been ruthless scenes just because of the challenge of religious and national hatred in stadiums. I think a change in these provisions could dissipate this whole law. We, MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, think that the resolution minister should, as he just did with Article 7, call on the parent board regarding article 6, and I am doing so now, to change Article 6. Namely, regarding the ban on selling and drinking alcohol in sports facilities at a distance of one kilometer from sports facilities in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis or Novi Sad, we should add other places that have more than 70 000 inhabitants, meaning, Pančevo, Subotica, Zrenjanin, Cačak, Leskovac and some other environments, because we believe that, by the size and number of inhabitants, those places should find their place in Article 6. I repeat, we expect that the provisions of Article 7 will not be changed, and the LSV will support this bill. As long as I'm here, I'd take the opportunity to make a connection between this law and October 7th. I'm asking a question, and I've done it in writing, Mr. Jocic. Namely, the most Nazi organisation from Novi Sad "National Front" announced a protest for October 7th, or as they say -- a walk, a Serbian march in Novi Sad. The discovery organization was the organizer and participant of the major demolition demonstrations in Novi Sad just after a sports match, caused major material damage, there were injuries. I expect the Ministry to react, to ban this meeting. If he does not, we have heard, and here there are various proposals, LSV MPs are calling on the citizens of Novi Sad, Vojvodina and all of Serbia to respond to a large rally of resistance to Nazism in Novi Sad. Since we believe in democratic Serbia, we expect the MUP to have this meeting scheduled for October 7th, the National Front rally, banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5872	No more representatives of the parliamentary groups reported. We're going in a row of MPs. We have 30 registered MPs to discuss this point. The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Shin, under Rule 93. Rules of Procedure, five minutes. Here you go, then the MP Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5873	I'd just like to say a few preliminary notes before I give a concrete opinion on the law. We all need to view the function of sports as something that develops a healthy competitive spirit and as a polygon on which universal values must develop in one society. In that sense, we must make every effort, and I see this law as something that should lead to it, to protect society from any form of violence, any form of hooliganism, and not to allow violence from one area of life to be transferred to other spheres. When we talk about this and this law, in order for it to meet all of this, it must compromise between two things that may not be best defined in this text, a compromise between events on the ground not being the source of national, religious and racial intolerance, but, on the other hand, they cannot be the source of the calculation of different political ideas and the abuse of such a situation. It must not be such a norm that it will allow it to be widely interpreted and turned into its opposite. In this regard, on behalf of the Roma Party, I propose to the Committee to introduce a very important element into the norm, which is an element of intent, because we cannot talk about criminal law unless we talk about the element of intent. All lawyers and lawyers know very well that, if we sanction only the store, and we do not say that there is one personal relationship between the perpetrator and a certain criminal act that has been defined, then we often talk about the absence of a criminal act, because someone who does not have a non-psychological relationship with a particular action can be punished for such a course of action. In that sense, let me just state one situation. We can't treat anyone who, for example, puts on Ratko Mladic's shirt, convinced that Ratko Mladic is a Serbian hero, and goes out on the field in that belief, and, for example, someone who tells the stars - gypsies, and doesn't mean anything by it, because he simply views them as such, and, on the other hand, someone who, in a clear intention of disdaining someone, says, "Kill Roma, slaughter Catholic, Serb, Orthodox, or anyone." In that sense, we must clearly define in article 7, the individual relationship of the perpetrator, the one who did the shop, in order that only in this situation would it be a criminal act. Otherwise, I end up with this, we annul all the bases on which Serbian criminal legislation is based. I'm talking about Serbian legislation. Then we create an additional source that doesn't come from these bases. If we make that clear, in this direction I call on the Committee to do so, then we will remove these dilemmas and we will really do the right thing, that events on the ground are in the role of strengthening co-existence in Serbia rather than being an opportunity for different abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5874	The word has been made by MP Rajko Djuric. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Zeljko Vasiljevic, and then a National MP, Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5875	Ladies and gentlemen, I never seem to have any luck. Whenever I want to talk, the minister comes out, not this one, but everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5876	Mr Vasiljevic, there's a minister here all the time, you have to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5877	The minister for all praise, for that matter, was sitting, but I'm not very lucky. As for the law on preventing conflicts on sports grounds, we think it's socially justified and there really is a need for one of these laws. Whether we vote for this law, we'll see after the amendment, depending on whether the minister can and will want to accept some of the amendments that we want to fix this law. We think that, in addition to goodwill, there is also a need to, in a technical sense, and also in the sense of encouraging the goal, this law is being revised. This social phenomenon is very dangerous for another reason, not only endangers the safety of citizens, but also because, mainly, sports events, sports games, broadcasts television, and then the general public is familiar with events at these matches. The editorial policy of our television and the media is largely such that they always draw and absorb these unpleasant events from one entire sporting event, so that the whole event falls into one shadow of these unsavourable events, so that they are even more prominent and raised to one level that, according to us, they deserve nothing. I'd like to talk about concrete solutions to this law that I disagree with and which I think will make it very difficult to implement. One of the provisions is that the sports game lasts for 120 minutes. I think we should think about it. Serbia is big enough, so groups of fans and fans, when they come to a sports facility, must start much earlier than two hours from the start of the game. Maybe the two-rounders can make it to the sports facility in two hours. I think we have to define that differently and we can't tell for minutes when a game begins. In this law, she did not pay particular attention to one phenomenon, which is organized groups of fans, their arrivals on the field, the game and sports facilities. I think we should pay particular attention to that, because mostly, the initiators and those who are making riots at games are organized groups of fans. It's hard for individuals who come to the game to make some major riots and phenomena that should be socially condemned. One phenomenon that, in my opinion, in this law is never defined, and we must point to, is the phenomenon of a uniform police force on sports grounds and in sports facilities. We think that this law should clearly define what situations and what events the uniform police should approach, or should appear in sports facilities, especially in sports fields where athletes compete. Why does it matter? It seems to us that we could ignore some of the doubts that the MPs have raised here, and it concerns the abuse of officials, i.e. accounting, first of all, the police with fans for other purposes, not for the purpose of preventing riots. In particular, I mean preventing fans from making political and other views. I think that if we clearly define the situation when the police can intervene, we could ignore some of these doubts and some of the unsuspecting events. In any event, the SPS Parliamentary Group is to reduce the maximum penalties provided for in this law. We think they're really rigorous and that they might be adapted to situations in some other countries. Believe me, in the beginning, until our fans get used to the rigorous measures and the rigorous penalties provided for in this law, you will have a considerable number of young people who will be inappropriately punished for some acts that certainly do not deserve such high sentences. I am fully convinced that the reduction of maximum penalties would give full effect to this law and help to achieve its idea of preventing violence on sports grounds. One phenomenon that causes great damage to our country and our society, and in this law is not defined, these are the riots of our fans on foreign sports grounds, or in foreign countries. Their guilt in that case is likely to be subject to the sanctions of the state in which they did the deed, but I think they are doing much greater social harm to our country and to our society than to that foreign country. I think this law should take a particular look at it and make these people, these groups of fans and individuals who are making these riots and causing no doubt great harm to our society, be sanctioned through some measures, we need to see which. The sale of alcohol, as defined in this law and the way it is determined -- at a distance from a kilometer in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and 300 meters in some other cities, I don't think it will give much effect. I'm absolutely out of control to prevent alcohol being poured, as well as the presence of alcoholics in sports facilities, but I really don't think this measure is going to have any effect. Today, when in every store you can buy a bottle of beer of half a liter, a liter, a liter and a half, two, two, two and a half liters, it really doesn't mean anything, because whoever wants to consume alcohol, it won't work on that 300 meters or a kilometer from a sports facility. I think that here you should individualize the guilt of an individual who's in an alcoholic state, not prevent, even those who don't go to a sports facility, to buy at some beer store or some alcohol. The idea that this law will in itself solve the problem of hooliganism and the misbehave of fans is wrong. My opinion is that this is a serious problem and a serious social phenomenon, which we must sanction. It requires a broad social action to prevent the causes of these phenomena. The consequences will be sanctioned, probably, by this law, and that should only help eliminate these causes. However, I am absolutely certain that this requires a broad social action, as well as that the Ministry of Interior cannot be the bearer of that action, nor the organisation that will implement this action. I would refer to an exhibition, a phenomenon that is often mentioned here, which is a cowardly cross on the European flag.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5878	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5879	I only have one more sentence. This is where the cowardly cross was mentioned and our young people, our young people, were accused of these totally unacceptable phenomena, especially towards the European Union. I must say that many of these phenomena have come to our society, precisely, from the European Union and that our people have seen this from youth and from people from the European Union, so that we should be a little more moderate in the criticism of such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5880	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jaroslav Hrbik has the word, and let the messengers of the people be prepared, Tomislav Nikolic and Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5881	The President-in-Office of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events aims to better edit this area, and based on previous experience, following the adoption of the Law of July 2003. We are witnessing what is happening at our sports events and the problem is to go to one game with family, children, friends, because individuals or groups are disrupting the safety of all those present in that place. Instead of having our fields and theaters as sports temples and all the good and healthy that's going on there, a handful of hooligans step on it all to satisfy some of their impulses, their or other ideas, which are not suitable for sport. It is even sadder when a good team, or individual, achieves a good result, and it remains in the other plan because of violence or misbehaving in the stands. In doing so, huge material damage is being done and public order and peace is being violated, and unfortunately there have been the worst possible consequences, mass fights, serious injuries, and deaths. In these situations, the responsibility of the organizers is great, as well as of the officials, and therefore, it is normal to require greater responsibility from them under the law. Also, the increase in penalties in line with the proposed measures, in order to ensure that sanctions are properly committed, is quite justified. We know very well what results our athletes achieve and what medals win. For these reasons, as well as for all of the above, it is up to us, as on the highest legislative body, to provide them with the best possible miles in which they will achieve even better results, to win even more medals, along with an audience that gives them support with their whole heart, in a fair and sports atmosphere, both in the field and in the theatre. What Serbia may have, perhaps, remained as the most significant resource is young, healthy, educated people, where sport is an inevitable link. Not to mention how important sports are for children and how much we all want our children to play sports and to focus properly in life, not to seek guidance in various vices and deviant behavior. We allow them to identify all the good sports and sports friendly behaviors on each field as soon as possible and at every sports event. This law is one of the laws that will better define and organise the entire area, so that our sport can be free of all unnecessary, inappropriate and incompatible things, i.e. He'll release the sport of that ballast surrounding him. I hope to make a positive statement on the amendments and additions to this law, and I expect that, after that, its appropriate application will follow, so that we can be perfectly safe and with the pleasure of following any sports performance, not just constantly listening to the media as some event of high risk is, and therefore, moving us away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5882	Thank you, Mr. Hrebick. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our representative has said enough about this bill and I would like to make some remarks about this bill, some conclusions and suggestions. First of all, I don't like what the minister of police says about this bill. And this is about children who are 13, 14, 15. Where's the social work here and where's the education here? Where's the Youth and Sports Department here? Where's social work? The police minister is a man who is strictly restricted by legal norms and his officers will, by his orders, interpret whether or not he is a violation of Section 5, and follow orders. What led us to have to talk about mass riots on sports grounds? First, a breakthrough of Western understanding and cheerleading. It wasn't that in Serbia until our clubs began to look up to foreign clubs and until club managers started forming fans' clubs. They were supposed to support them whenever club management was elected, so they started providing them with special transports. The trains come back completely broken and everybody shut up. The railroad suffers damage, compensations, and car changes, does a new interior, the police suffer when the buses are completely demoted and each other there are harassing, throwing stones, calling, beating, and you've been closing your eyes like nothing's happening. The West realized what a shame it was after the Hazel and some more tragedies and decided to clear it up, but no one's helping us clear it up. As long as we don't see someone taking their grandkids to a football game in Serbia, you'll know the situation isn't right. This law doesn't solve it. This law is of general character and so wide is the criminal offenses for which the sentence of prison is pronounced that it remains on the interpretation of one judge - will it first interpret that the perpetrator has committed a crime under the Criminal Code, or has committed it according to this Lex specialis, since the manner in which prison sentences are brought to all living laws has been governed by DOS, so that the judge now has several laws in front of him when it is necessary to determine whether a person has committed a criminal offence and whether he should be sentenced to prison sentences or not. On the other hand, I'm in favour of clearing it up once and for all. This is not a way and you know very well that this is not a way. This is what we're showing ourselves to some world that we're willing to do exactly anything to root out what's wrong in this country. Come on, but how are we gonna root that out? There are no fans and no ordinary viewers. They're all at a sports event or fans or viewers. There's a group of fans' problem. The police know them all. You say here, ringleader group. Well, you know them all and you shoot them for days at these games. The cameras are directed at fans, not the game. You all know who's organizing them and who's running them, who's giving them money for travel and sandwiches, who's paying for an entire plane, charter flight, to go to a game somewhere. Who rejoices when they do well on club orders, and who grieves when they don't act on club orders? How much of the cheerleading leaders have become rich in Serbia and have their own business, thanks to what they are. Cheerleaders? It's the easiest thing to get into the crowd and beat the kids, and what if that kid accidentally got a ticket next to that group of fans? Where's he going to run, where he's going to get away, to whom he's going to prove, when Special Forces comes in, that it's got nothing to do with it? How he'll prove to the judge if they bring him in bloody, and they say he got into a fight. I know how the police lie. Here's Gjilan, when we got arrested, a cop showed up who said I hit him on the street. I hit a cop! Why should this member, whom the minister himself has seen should be changed? Because you, for example, have placed in the same criminal act a man who brings an explosive device, who throws it and directly endangers the life and health of the participants, with those who pronounce the parole, so you wrote here, which can cause national, racial and religious hatred or impatience. What's a parolee? Is the password what is written for our free world, or is it the password that is pronounced during the game? Next, you said here that the police are preventively reviewing the facility, especially in front of risky encounters, and then you say, "If the organizer of the event doesn't act on the orders of the police, the police," convinced that there are no well-insured safety of participants and visitors, "he has the right to ban a sporting event," and then you say that there may be incidents in which, even, someone may die. If the police saw that it wasn't secure, why didn't they ban that sporting event? Where's the penalty for a cop who's got a bad judgment? How can the police let a sports match take place on which someone will be severely injured by a pyrotechnic means? It's the troubles of the 2003 Law, when we amendments tried to convince you that the police are obliged to keep public order and peace everywhere, on the street, in the bus and in the football game, not to let the organizer secure the football game, so if he calls the police, he'll pay for a special police service that will provide an extra football game. Since there's no money, he's not gonna call the police, but the police are assessing whether special forces are needed, an intervention unit, or whatever it's called, to fly in, to beat and beat. That's why it's very difficult to discuss this law. If you want the support of the SRS Parliamentary Group to return to stadiums peace, cheer and sport, to return to the stadium by all ages, the whole problem must be seen. Someone mentioned Spain. If I could, say, I'd like to have one football card for a stadium club that I love with all my heart and leave it in the inheritance of my son, so, since I have two, they change, one game watching, after two cars, the game watching the other, and that's the biggest property that anyone's ever left for them -- they have a place on the stands of a club that they love, among 30,000, 40,000, 50,000 people who also inherit it from their ancestors. Get to it. Nothing repression can accomplish, especially when it comes to minors. The minors instinctively respond to their kind of repression, show that they are not afraid of anything. You saw it on October 5th, you saw what it looked like. What, were there any serious people there? No, there were political leaders, there were minors and there were a group of fans who later boasted about who was the winning police station, who ran into which state institution, who was more responsible, "grobars" or "deliers", which was carried out on October 5th. You have our amendments to this bill. We have even predicted that two or three key members of this law are completely deleted because everything is foreseen in our criminal legislation. We're basically against a Lex specialist. It's a sign that something's not working in the state. If you can't in normal procedure, by normal law to cover all the crimes, then something in the state is wrong, then someone forgot something. Well, and if he forgets, it's no shame, there's been changes and additions to the Penal Code and inserting acts that weren't foreseen until then. Besides, there are new acts that have never happened before. This way you won't be able to do it. If you avoid such a palitative decision about who did what at a sports game, who's the ringleader, who's the organizer, who's the direct culprit for what happened at the game, we are fully prepared to support any law that would allow viewers to return to the stadium. I'm not a timid man, but for years I've been taking no member of my family to football games, because I don't trust that the game will end peacefully, because I don't know which fool will fire a rocket from somewhere and kill someone. Don't be afraid of us even more now that we don't know who the police are going to bring in and that we don't know who the judge is going to condemn from the football stands or from the stands of any sports facility. Then you won't have any viewers at all. Why would someone risk accidentally finding themselves in a place where they get eight years in prison? If you wish we didn't have sports, then write 20 years in prison and it's over, you won't have sports. A nation without sport is a rotten nation. You've heard these top DOS officials talk about crime in sports. Yes, but they're involved to the bone. And your client is involved in sports. Has it ever occurred to you to tell one of your prominent members - what are you going to do in a tadsport club? He told you that's what gets him into party popularity. That's not true. He's involved in the worst possible crime. Ask those who run the country clubs, if they can run that village sports club without money, without cash, without payouts on black. As it's only in top-notch sports, you can only imagine. So be careful with this. You have the support to keep the stands calm, but you don't have the support to make it up to the police and courts, because the law is so wide-ranging that I'm looking at who's the most attractive person in my O.R., here's Donk, and I'm not supposed to let Donko go to the game, someone might say she was involved in a fight, according to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5884	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this bill, I usually talk primarily about the public who is not in the Assembly, but outside, talking about a stricter criminal policy. I believe that these changes and additions should be viewed wider than that part alone. In practice, the current law on the prevention of violence has shown that there are certain gaps and shortcomings that are necessary to change, in order for the judiciary and the police to fight violence more effectively. It is this bill that aims to enable the police and the judiciary to do their job as efficiently as possible. The problem with fans has not existed since yesterday and Serbia is not the only country that has to take care of and fight violence. Namely, some countries, such as Britain, have long solved this problem. More specifically, in 1985, when 39 Italian fans died in riots caused by fans of British Liverpool, all clubs from the island were banned from playing in Europe for a period of five years. It was the first step in solving this extremely difficult problem. At that time, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher made it very clear that it was necessary to fight hard and very hard and to deal with the fans themselves. Not only were the penalties sharpened then, but there was no room for standing in the stadiums. Any pour and consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. Cameras not only followed special sectors in the stands, but also filmed the surrounding streets. As far as I know, this bill is based on this British model and we have included in it all the positive experiences that have been applied in the British legislation itself. The British have gone so far as to suppress violence at sports events that, say, there are no fences in their stadiums today. When you buy a ticket for one of their games, you'll see that there are criminal measures on the back for certain violations, which, by the way, they have to consider a court ruling. So it is not necessary to conduct a procedure for a person to be brought in or convicted, but, in the event of a misdemeanor, they consider such a criminal act to be a judgment itself. Our police can hardly determine who is responsible and thus identify him. For example, at Manchester United Stadium, you have a total of 14 cameras that record every sector in the stands and there is absolutely no such problem. In more than a year and a half, seven people, seven younger people, were killed in the count of fans of opposing clubs. The cruelty and brutality shown on that occasion is, in any case, frightening, especially in view of minor perpetrators of criminal acts. There are about 2,000 hooligans in Serbia. They're very zealously prepared for every game, they come armed with metal bars, sticks, and very often they bring in knives. The knives are precisely the means by which crimes, the most severe, I'm talking about murders and serious bodily injuries, have been committed. Of course, aggression occurs easily, even faster. We must take into account the fact that our generations are standing in times of war, in times of great discontent and social and psychological crisis. By preparing for the session and reading this law, I read that in the area of Pancheva, someone can correct me unless it's true, even, they maintain rituals that promote aggression among the athletes themselves. I'm talking about all the range fans can get in their aggressive struggle. Of course, it happens very often that they also yell at Hitler. If the situation is analysed in the stands, the number of riots and the severity of criminal acts, then it is quite justified that there is a sharp criminal policy in this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Am I supposed to remind myself of a mass fight of fans at the "Rad'-OFK Belgrade"-"Partizan" in 1998 in Kragujevac, or, say, a fight at the 2003 "Hemofarm"-"Partizan" or "Partizan"-"Star" game, or should I mention the unloved events when in the northern tribune of the stadium "Partizan" in 1999, Alexander Radović was killed, and 2005. Mirko Radovanovic, who was stabbed with a knife after a debate about a cheerleading joke?- I'm sorry. Or, when in a fight between the fugitive fans and Chukariski, with seven stab wounds, the Golub Balevic was killed. The last fatal shooting took place on the field of the FK "Zarkovo", in which Aleksandar Panic of the Railways was killed. This bill, in addition to tightening the fines, extending the time interval, from 90 to 120 minutes before and after the sports event, it in some way removes a fundamental obstacle to the possible more effective fight of justice against such unrest, i.e. violence on sports grounds and at all events, which is to define violent behavior in a much simpler way. Namely, from his definition as an important mark of the entity's crime, violence has been cast out, and therefore the court's path is made easier and faster to reach the verdict itself, that is, if the dispute occurs. I was going to say, I apologize if I was wrong, the intention is to mark the beings of a crime that was expelled from the definition of violent behavior. (Zoran Krasic from the post: Then there is no action. That's what you think. Simply, what problems in practice are caused by this provision, the best example of a Belgrade fan, against whom 27 criminal and 13 criminal charges were raised in 2006, and no proceedings have been completed so far. In the end, it would underline an extremely important role of the media themselves, which should be seen in isolation and placed in the right perspective, rather than constantly making them a sensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5886	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, to be prepared Svetlana Kitic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a short time since there are a lot of registered speakers of the SRS. I'll try to put out some of our objections in five minutes, you've heard one piece on this bill. What was the direct cause of the amendment and the addition of this law? He wrote on August 3rd, precisely, it was an event that took place at the football game "Zrinjski"-"Partizan" in Mostar, on the other side of the Neretva River, where, as Mr. Vukic said, in a crucible of the constitution in the broad hills, police, to their teeth armed, welcomed fans from Nevesinj, who crossed over from the Serbian side and came to cheer for their club. The UEFA decision, which Mr Tomic also spoke of, is unfair, scandalous, because of the fact that fans of the football club absolutely did nothing to lead to such sanctions. They wore the markings of our Serbian heroes and, worst of all, they were beaten up in the most savage way. It happened, even, to a guy from Katja, it's, uh, here, if you're talking about sociological, or any structure of people going to games, so there are those who are more temperamental, not to say more aggressive, and those who aren't quite quiet and withdrawn boyfriend, who's got a gunshot wound in his hand, who just loves his club, goes with the markings of his club to the games. When the law was passed in 2003, we were resumed. I've been a member of the Defence and Security Committee for four years, and we've dealt with parallel legislation. Something like this, as Radovic said, exists only in the UK, or England, but there are incidents reduced to a minimum, and not because of that, as she says, what people are afraid of. You have all the parts of the city of London, you have one club that plays in the third English league, it's called "Millwall," it's part of a town where entire families, starting with the smallest child, over a man who may be 90 years old, is the oldest member of the family, go dressed in a specific way. They're not psychopaths, they're not lunatics, they're just people who cheer. In the heat of that fight, if they play with someone, too, from their league, a competitive or club rival from London, it happens that certain groups are causing these situations. However, here is a law, which is, by the way, one of the most rigorous, now sharpened by sanctions and criminal provisions that exist in criminal law, so this law, as you have heard from both Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nikolic, is a Lex specialis in relation to it and cannot survive, as lawyers such as Mrs. Verica and colleagues Jojic, who I now see in the O.R., in legal traffic. How will you, please, gentlemen, measure what exactly is 1,000 meters? It is amazing that someone is thus playing with one legal provision and says that three hours before and three hours after the football game, alcohol will be banned within a 1,000-metre radius. And now you're going to measure from JNA Stadium, from Belgrade's Maracana Stadium, Uncle Dutch Stadium, exactly 1,000 meters. So you're going to say, here's to banalizing things, because it's really for fun, Mrs. Svetlana Raznatovic -- you know, you live 100 meters across from Maracane, it's your birthday, it's that it's your kids' birthday, but you can't celebrate anything in the circle of your garden. Either you tell the man who got his grandson that day, or the man who's got his own glory on the day-- well, you can't pour alcohol, because you live near that stadium. It's really amazing what you've come up with, and no one who's supposed to enforce that law can accept it. Secondly, directorial service, gendarmes and club management cannot synchronisedly act in what is called a cheerleading group, or take certain activities in agreement with them. You know that in all countries in the world, in all major clubs, at certain times, we have a case in the country, there is an animosity between certain fan groups and club administrations, because, as Mr Nikolic said, football clubs are politically instrumentalised. You have people who simply are in a cheerleading group and don't want anything to do with politicians. I, back in the year and a half, here, and my colleague Krasic was zealous in that regard, as regards my colleagues from the SRS, about Mr Vukic not to speak, was at all the qualified matches of our team, Serbia, especially in the period since our independent qualifications took place. What I'm really looking forward to is that all of those games, played against Finland, Belgium, Armenia, at the Belgrade Maracani, come people with small children, entire families, with markings and tricolors, to come to the games. And according to the assessment of security risks, Mr. Todorovic, which you had to follow, and we have these police reports as members of the Committee, there was no reason, from 2003 to today, to be at matches so-called. High risk, even in the Partizana derby and the Red Star, or vice versa, he's doing something like that. It's just that it was either a courtship or your poor judgment and your intention to continue to irritate people. I have specific questions for you, please write them down, so when the minister arrives, give it to him. We have acted on the amendments, related to this cheerleading formulation, because fans, mostly, at games when Serbia plays, protect with their cries Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, and scandal our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, of course, give him what his calling is, and that is the Chetnik Duke, so they scandal. Please tell me, is there a ban in these other countries of the European Union on bringing in one torch, bringing in banners, because you said: scarfs, T-shirts, hats, not transparency? Which is the country and which is a representation where, according to the choreographys made in the stadiums, there are no large banners, or flags, etc. The walker, what is the dimension of 30x35 meters, and why should those flags, when he plays the Serbian team, not stand - Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija in the heart of Serbia? I really don't understand how you could write something like that and why you needed this law. We haven't heard from Mr. Secretary, and we don't have any data, so maybe the other colleagues have, I.E. In the Home Office's report, no direct cause exists, so be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that such a law, or amendments to the law, is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5888	The word has a People's MP Svetlana Kitic, and let the National MP Radivoje Milanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5889	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, respected viewers, I will take the opportunity to speak with a few words, although much has been said. I drew here, copied, because a lot of topics have been stolen from me, but I will try to address you as an MP from the SPS list, as a woman who's 30 years in sports. I was fortunate to have been involved in sports at a time when the state was arranged and when it was a pleasure to be a athlete, when fans were coming, indeed, to enjoy sports skills and not being manipulated as they are now. For these younger viewers who don't remember, I've won everything that can be won in sports, and I think that's why the words I'm about to direct from this booth can have a little bit more weight, with all due respect to all the other predecessors. I'll tell you my vision and maybe give you some suggestions to solve the vandalism problem, which is increasingly present on sports grounds. In sports competitions, as is known, we leave the house, so the behaviors we perform on sports grounds are carried from the house, from the family. What are our families like in Serbia? More or less, fans come from families where parents either don't work, or they're fired, let's remember mass layoffs, or they don't have money for tuition; scholarships are only available to those with a deep pocket and of course that young man is frustrated and all that frustration shows up on sports grounds. Young people don't get a chance to go to normal school, to study, to find a job, to travel, and all for the famous reasons that I said. On the other hand, clubs need fans, as sport-enhancing stimulates clubs to achieve better results, there is great support for athletes on the ground. I know this from great experience, because I was lucky to play in one of the best clubs in the world, with which I won 17 titles, and our fans were just rooting for the club, they weren't even manipulated by our administration and our players, because in the administration there were respected members of our society, real sports workers, among other things, and respected Mr. Mrkonjic. There are terrains, or places where our young people could do all this energy, strength, frustration, anger, what to call it, because they're full of it, to show and to prove themselves, which are school competitions, camps, of course, free, various sports competitions, and all of this should provide, of course, for free, the state and the Ministry of Sports, because we finally got it, or we only have it on paper. Let me just say one more thing, athletes don't just look at sports courts, but their sports skills begin in school benches. That's why I'm saying this. They are upgraded by good teaching work, professional work, both in the field and by the people who run the club. In the end, I think I have said all the most important things, just to conclude, evidence that there are no connections in real sport, connections, godfathers, brosers, are just Novak Djokovic, Ana Ivanovic, Jelena Jankovic, as well as the sound names of our sport that promoted our country at the time of sanctions and an insufferable embargo, which is Divac, Sale Obradović, Jasna Šekarić, waterpolysts. As an athlete, I apologize to everyone I didn't mention and they deserved it because they promoted this Serbia much better than many.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5890	The word has a folk MP, Radivoje Milanovic, and let the MP Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5891	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, State Secretary, Democratic Party MPs' Club will support the proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. All of us who love sports, as well as those who dislike it, agree that the international successes of our athletes are a rare opportunity for people in this country to feel pleasure or pride. Our water polo players, volleyball players, Jelena, Anne, Novak and others are the best commercials for our country, and athletes are our best ambassadors. Unfortunately, very often in our sports stadiums there are unpleasant events that make it impossible for us to enjoy the performances of our athletes in a proper and safe way. The above-mentioned successes cannot be fully enjoyed by the fans of the "Partizan" football club, who was kicked out of the UEFA Cup contest, and it is certainly the most difficult for those people whose loved ones lost their lives in the violence at sports events and organized fights before or after they ended. As a rule, vandal behavior causes great material damage. The Republic of Serbia is responsible and obliged to provide sanctions for the violation of the freedom and rights of citizens, i.e. the security of citizens, as has been done by the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, which took effect in July 2003. The application in practice of this law has highlighted the need to prescribe solutions that would achieve greater efficiency and efficiency of the law. Some proposed solutions concern the content of certain terms, specify and introduce new obligations and responsibilities of the organizers and participants of sports events and of the MUP. For failure to comply with those obligations, appropriate criminal provisions are provided for. Amendments to Article 1 of this proposal strengthen the time and space limits in which perpetrators of violence and misbehavior can be sanctioned by this law. The new legal solutions give greater authority to the director's service, in terms of preventing conflict between groups and the consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages in and around sports facilities. If, in turn, shortcomings are observed that could endanger the safety of participants in the sports event, Article 5 provides for the possibility of banning their maintenance. Changing criminal and criminal obligations is based on a number of reasons. It is necessary to provide for sanctions for the newly proposed obligations. Some of the actions and offences so far have been proposed for prosecution. It is proposed to abandon the intention of perpetrators of criminal offences, since the view of case law is that it is necessary to prove it. Practice has shown that the failures of officials and responsible persons often cause unwanted events, and criminal responsibility is provided for them. There is also an increase in both criminal and criminal penalties. The maximum penalty for organizers is 10 years. It's not a little bit, but the danger of inflicting great material damage and the loss of human life is also great. Therefore, the penalties laid down in this law should first be regarded as preventive measures, because the application of this law is not sufficient to improve the situation in this area, but it is certainly necessary. In order to improve the picture we send to the world, to prevent material damage in sports clubs, and mostly because of the fact that with its application somewhere in the future they save young lives, I call on all MPs to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5892	The word has the People's Messenger Darko Glisic, and let Miroslav Pejic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is against every form of violence and misbehave and I really don't have any dilemma about it. But what are our brutal objections to this law, is that it, by certain provisions or broad interpretations, is somewhere, in a very narrow way, that this little audience that comes to sports courts will also leave the sports fields. I'd like to say a few things to those who are glorifying prosperity in the fields across Europe and the world, which I consider to be one of the reasons for the situation in our country, because our young people have also taken those habits. Someone here said it was wonderful in England, France, etc., and I'll remind you that at the World Cup in France, a German fan hit a stick on the head of a French police officer and crippled him for life. The man is disabled. A year ago, at the World Cup, also in football, there were so many German and English fans, who go wherever they go, simply make a wasteland, that you have no city that a year after that has no consequence of their visits and their misdeeds. Not to mention Italy, in which last year they used guns to solve their conflicts, and fans were breaking into training camps. Let's just say, at Lazio camp training, they beat up a player whose game wasn't satisfied. The crown example, which I must mention, is the Netherlands, in which phones are scheduled to fight, so they don't fight at the stadium, but they fight somewhere outside the stadium, Portugal, where it is truly unremembered in sport to hold a player, specifically, our Ivica Dragutinović, and that the coach of the same Portugal, with such a cat's fist, punches him in the face. Young people aged 15 or 16, who observe such a thing, may get a certain incentive for them to behave in a similar way. There are a few other things that are very important, and that affect that we have various problems at sports sites. Corruption, of course, is one of the things that breaks up all the pores of our society, I would say that in sport, perhaps, and the most pronounced, because, somehow, sport is put aside, and it's good for everyone to wash some money or to get through sports and sports clubs' money that would serve them for some of their intentions. Today, if you're following the sport, I'm personally a sports fan and I watch everything, from the usual other municipal, village leagues, so for the weekend I watched my village of Studenica play, every judge has a price. He can only add more to that price, if it's hot terrain for consequences he can get from fans who miss it, if I can say so, through his fists. So, for 50 euros, as they say in the jargon, they'll turn if it wasn't a pen, so they say about a pen when it doesn't exist, they'll exclude your player because he looked hard and it goes from rank to rank, to highest leagues, where, of course, there's much bigger money in the game. Someone mentioned here that we have yet to explain the murders of many club presidents. I would say that we even have an unexplained murder of the first man, then a common state, Serbia-Montenegro, Mr Bulatovic. We were just having a session here when it happened and I remember it was in the last session, that Minister Jocic was out of the house at the time, he was also a minister. So where there's big money in the game, where there's a certain space to manipulate, there's certainly people who, in one way or another, will, through corruption, irritate someone to do something that doesn't suit him. I must say, my three-year-old son, when I took him to one game, he only remembered the words "judgment, thief." I wouldn't say it again, it was about the judge's family, which, as a parent, certainly wasn't pleasant for me. There's something that, I repeat once again, through corruption, indeed, disintegrates this pores of society in which we should all, rooting for our club, simply relax or relax. At the very end, to honor the agreed time within our parliamentary group. Someone mentioned UEFA sanctions here. I have to say that on various websites, and even on the site of the Zrinski football club, I found that club in its official rooms, which is the club that kidnapped the stadium from the FK "Velez" that played there, we remember that in that old state "Velez Drinski" was banned because of the constitution, and today, it holds pictures of Janko Bobetka, Gojko Šushka and Ante Gotovina, and Ante Pavelic. These are pictures that stand in their official rooms. They openly boasted of the constitution, they carried pictures of Ante Pavelic and Ante Gotovina at the match against "Partizan", when they provoked such, we can say freely, a defensive reaction by all the people who came to cheer up their club, to cheer for "Partizan", and, of course, "Partizan" suffered sanctions. Now I'm going to ask you something, I'm sorry there's no minister here, how would you react if some clubs in Serbia now organized a game with which the full income would go to help UN indictees? You'd think -- terrible, disaster, we want to go to the EU, it's terrible, we don't care, those people who are accused get killed, even though they're not guilty of anything. A few months ago, four or five months ago, "Dinamo" from Zagreb organized such a game, with which all income ends in 10 seconds, went to assist Hague indictee Anti Gotovina, a pure-blooded Ustasha, whose hands were bloody to the elbows, a man who didn't just order, but killed people directly. The football club, the pride of their country, organized a game where he raised funds. Now they're selling souvenirs with the coat of arms of their club and the character of Ante Gotovina. I ask you, how would we react, although we hear here that someone, because he wore a T-shirt with the character Vojislav Seselj, Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, has already been sentenced in advance to encourage some hatred, etc. I call on you, the minister has promised to consider some amendments, if there is any possibility of these amendments being considered, to improve, as much as possible, this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5894	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Pejica, to prepare Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is finally before us a law that cares about our youth, the population of young people, their education, their behavior and their lives. Due to the good co-operation of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Sports and Youth, there was an agreement on a proposal to supplement and amend the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, which was adopted in 2003, and is today in front of us. I would like to commend all of these proposals sent by the departments, whose measures will certainly affect the return, I hope, of the entire family to sports events. The four-year experience of the Ministry of Interior in the application of the Law is behind these proposals. It is commendable to be concerned about the failures, which will certainly make it easier for the judicial authorities to work after we adopt their changes and additions. Unfortunately, violence is the current social phenomenon in all the pores of our lives. Sports are seen today as a place for the spread of violence, so this problem requires joint action, both by legislative and executive bodies, and by the organizers of sports events. Also necessary is the education of fans. With the new law, the Sports Federation, sports societies and clubs are obliged to "encourage the organisation and good behaviour of their fans and their clubs, to provide appropriate information to their fans, to meet with fans, to publish newsletters, etc., to coordinate activities with their fans' clubs when they go to sports events, where these sports organisations, their fans' clubs are visiting." The essence of the amendments and additions to the Law is the increased responsibility of the organizer, which is referred to in Article 7, which states that clubs are obliged to promote positive behaviour and the performance of players and officials before, during and after the sport event. Also, Article 20 adds that an official or responsible person, who does not take security measures to prevent and prevent riots in the organisation of a sporting event, thus endangering the life or body of a larger number of people or property, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. I deliberately quoted this provision of the law because, not long ago, we were witnesses that, just now, the official persons had entered into the sports facility the illegal funds, which had shut down a young life. For these reasons, personally, I support an increase in penalties for offenders, which is a member of the 20th of these amendments and additions, which makes this law quite rigorous compared to so far applied. The new law provides for fines from six months to 10 years. We do not have to invent anything new, but we can look up to some people who, regardless of their wealth, had similar problems. Each of us is probably happy to look at the English prime minister's league and I think it's possible that the English, as far-known world hooligans, have managed to get themselves in line, is it possible that they are watching and enjoying football plays like that, encouraging their own club, and, in doing so, not insultingly. I'm sure we can do it. Our law, unfortunately, or, if you will, perhaps, and fortunately, continues to provide for a mandatory fence of sports court stands. I deeply believe that the day will come when all sports fans will go peacefully to sports events, not thinking about whether something bad will happen to them there. I am deeply convinced that this will be a turning point for our entire sport, which from that moment on will only go the way up. Dear fellow Members of the People, I call you to our responsibility, as a parent, as an educator, as local and republican officials, in the day of voting, to jointly declare the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving in sports events.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5896	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5897	Dear fellow MPs, as far as I was able to track the debate about this very principled and quite broad law on preventing riots at sports events, I couldn't help but think that first we should have thought about what the difference between Ustasha and Croats is or about some similar topics that are being started here, because we might be able to define some things. I must say that Mr. Jocic rightly went out for this pay phone and said that the law should be specified, but not only in the article he quoted, and in what way, with which this topic is caused by all the hatreds and forms of reckoning with minorities, most of them and everyone else, because no one here can tell the difference anymore. Imagine if we had an Anglo-Saxon right, we could import it, it would be a good message to someone from the United States, and if you had a jury composed of members of non-governmental organizations, as the most respected, some, I apologize, I don't think, in that, on the "Cola of Serbian Sisters," which no one mentions, or, say, on "The Mother of Serbian," a 100-200-year-old, what are we going to do, we've got grandmothers, eh, imagine that they're on the jury and someone comes to sue one of these fans. Jocic comes in, all in uniform, along with his martyrs, because whenever it's a game in Novi Sad, it's like a siege situation, people do 12, 16 hours, hate Minister Jocic, and Bajatovic, MPs, and Nada Kolundzija, and Kostunica, and Tadic, everything because he has to work 16 hours because of some of us here called nationalists, etc., and least of all hooligans. Imagine a jury like that. Well, there wouldn't be any free fans in Serbia. And why are these young people like that? Why is a sociological group, which has its personality, which is called "the fans of a club," that's how it behaves? What makes these young people, besides being unemployed and having to pay high school fees, don't want to talk about it any further, behaving like that? Well, at least three crises mark today's life in Serbia, including the lives of those young people and their parents. It's a state crisis, a social crisis and national frustration. Is it normal, and I say it is, and for me 40-year-olds, let alone for an 18-year-old, who is being attacked by an identity, who is being attacked by a state, who is being attacked by a culture, where its presidents, statesmen, officers are being tried in The Hague 10 times more than others, and everything else we can say. That young man has to explode somewhere. I don't want to explain any further. We have a law that we want to force Minister Jocic and all my friends, friends and others, as we call them here, it sounds ugly to me - the gendarmes, these are people who do their job and who can't behave differently, but as the rule and the situation in which they are at gunpoint and force. The problem discussed today by this parliament, in my opinion, is extremely unserious to consider only through the application of this law and only through criminal measures. The Ministry of Interior will not solve any problems that arise in our stadiums by using force. It's clear to anyone who wants to deal with this problem seriously. What may be good in this law, although the SPS Group will not vote for it, is a relationship to the organizers of the event. These organisers, not only through the football trade, but also through the achievement of political influence, especially in the local environments, make high profits and have allegedly great reputation, although many of them have, indeed, criminal records and manipulate these young people. They should be hit in the ears and in the pocket and in the boulevard. Maybe it's not bad to think about a practice that isn't foreseen by this law, maybe it's not democratic, maybe it's neither free-thinking or free-minded, but that those who organize it in those stadiums go to 'buvar'. Besides, you know what games these things happen at. It happens, unfortunately, only at international games. The most punished are the Partizana fans, who got blown up by management, obviously not because of that, because of 25 tickets from 30 games we had a problem. So that administration wasn't good enough to run a club. I'm a partisansman, to tell you the truth, I'm not a star. And what, I'm not ashamed, most of it's a star, it's no problem at all. So I fully agree with this intensities, although we will not vote for the law, to further tighten criminal provisions for the organizers of the event. I can't have the M.O.P. wearing it himself. The next sequence would be the school these young people go to, but the teachers, with these salaries, and as they've been taught for seven years, it's hardly gonna help us. The family -- in which you should have five or six average salaries, and you do not have in the Serbian family, on average, so many members, that you can provide those 600, 700, 800, and some say thousands of euros today in Serbia, as much as necessary, with these latest gatherings, for a decent life, provided that you are healthy and provided you do not have any special requirements. I wouldn't waste any more time, they told me I had seven more minutes, so there wouldn't be any of us from the SPS wanting to give a special lecture. So, gentlemen, it's not all about the MUP and it's not all about the law. Penalties for organizers need to be sharpened and one thing to understand, not only by passing the law is this problem solved. We're all responsible, and parents in the house, who can't do much, and above all society. I have to say, I can't imagine a situation where it's a shame to go to Zagreb and yell "Serbia, Serbia", because you're rooting for the Serbian team. I can't imagine that it will beat logic and pressure in controlled means of public information, in which NGOs will help to shut down the little rebellious identity that Serbian people want to express in Serbia, at least through calls from their teams, even though they are fans of some people, and calling out "Serbia, Serbia" or "Star", "Partizan", i.e. that we should be ashamed of that. I fear that defending the identity of the Serb people today is much better spent by these rebellious kids than by some who today represent, not all, the ruling political elite in Serbia. The best way to finish a job with some country and some nation is, and that'll tell you all the books they're treating, I don't like that radical dictionary, but that's how, occupation, to destroy identity. You still have the fifth column, very nice. Don't let these kids defend us at these games, let's influence them in a different way, by having schools, by making it work, by having their parents, at 55, not with a few thousand marks, the mark was a miracle of God, the euro, to be paid and to be jobless, that no one needs them. Because this young man, because he can't get school, he can't get a job, he has to go cheer. As a responsible political elite, it is up to you, gentlemen, or comrades, or, if you will, fellow Members and fellow Members, in my understanding of things, so we are thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5898	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralic, then MP Petar Jojic, contacted him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5899	Thank you, Mr. President. I've reported in accordance with Article 225(1). I am extremely serious, I am very surprised by the paper that has come to us today, by the remarks of the Working Group on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the draft law on the National Assembly. Something has happened here that's a complete confusion. So someone formed a single body called a subcommittee or, it doesn't matter what it's called, for making proposals or draft laws on the National Assembly and, parallel to that, I guess, the Administrative Board -- the same body or body for making rules. I'd say it's a good thing. Both parties participate in both parties and the same parties boycott the work of both bodies. Then we received objections here to the unadopted and non-existent Law on the National Assembly, in such a way that the Law on the National Assembly is likened to the imaginary provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. This is the biggest insolence I've seen in six years here. Both were handled by the professional service of the National Assembly in both bodies and bodies by representatives of the same parliamentary parties. I wasn't informed that someone suspended this first body. How is it possible for an unadopted and unsettled law to let people's MPs know, however, this is in the phase of internal, parliamentary clubs, something that is not technical corrections, but essential objections. Article 3, please, this famous article that needs to regulate how the public works of the National Assembly is provided, is fully characterized by the needs of RTS, not the National Assembly. Mr. President, I demand and ask you to call, however you wish, both bodies, to see on whose behalf the representatives of the same parties are doing the opposite act of what the representatives of the same parties have done in an earlier act. What's this about? In order for the public not to be confused about what this is about, in order for a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to be adopted, a law on the National Assembly must be passed. You are now, with this paper, practically, designing a law on the National Assembly. Who gave you that right? On whose behalf did you do this? Who's the author of this text? It's just like if someone under one law passed a constitution. I guess it should be the other way around. You're blowing up an explanation about this. I got this this this morning, and now I've looked at it, I'd like to check in, or else, sooner. I'm very serious, this is an insolence I haven't seen here yet. Please, as it is possible that the same professional service, the same parliamentary groups, with the same political programmes, are doing totally the opposite acts, the first of which would have to be original, roof, and this second - internal law of the National Assembly, which is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5900	Mr. Baralich, thank you for pointing us to that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5901	I'd like an answer, and if I don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5902	Okay, I can't really give you an answer right now. I need to see what this is about. You'll get...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5903	Then you don't control what anyone does in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5904	Okay, you'll get an answer the next day. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have received a letter from Nova Varosha from a citizen who points to certain irregularities and illegalities, and there is a suspicion that there is also a crime. I ask questions according to this letter that the citizen has sent, Mr. President, by forwarding this question to the competent ministry and to the competent state authority in order to provide an answer. Is Đura Obradovic from Nova Varoshi the owner of AD "Inks" Nova Varoš? Is New Varoshi's Agricultural Association leased on the famous 99 years before enrolling in changes of the authorised person at the Registers Agency after privatisation? Is New Varosha's Agricultural Association attached to the Inx Progress Company? Is the majority owner in this company a former director and under what law, if the association of the Agricultural Association of Nova Varoshi with the "Inex Progress Company" has been carried out? Is that the former director who now became the majority owner? Is it Djura Obradovic? According to the provisions of the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 53/95 and 32/97, it is prescribed that any available funds in the state property require the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question about this property - are the properties of the Agricultural Cooperatives "Agriculture's ownership of the Republic of Serbia, as state property in Novi Varosha, and is it legally available to them? If they are, on the basis of which the law, earlier or now valid, is leased, and to whom, and especially what happened to the real estates that are of great value to the citizens of Novi Varosha, for some 20,000 citizens who have had positive economic effects...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5906	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5907	... And that, first of all, "The Village" store in Nova Varoša, shop "Voće" number 8, store "Akmačići" number 10, store "The Lake" number 3, shop "Textil" number 1, store "Seminal" number 2, shop "Bitovic" number 11, shop "Lim" number 12...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5908	Mr. Jojic, may I ask you, as you read it from that paper, to give it to us immediately, so we can forward it to the competent ministry as your parliamentary question, so you don't read from the pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5909	I can, I'll deliver, just point out that the Republic Public Attorney's Office, in connection with these statements and notes and the indications of citizens from New Varosha who indicated that it was a crime, reacted to their act R24/05, since 10 March 2005, and indicated that there were numerous abuses, because they did not seek consent to have national and state property, and they did not receive this consent from the competent state authorities. At the same time, I recall, there is Mr. Jocic, that the authorities of the criminal police and the UBOPK should be involved in this, because this is about greater value, to determine whether or not there are any violations of the law and how any cooperative has owned the property, or how there has been the accession of the Agricultural Association, Nova Varoš, to the association of whose former retired director. That's why I think there's room for these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5910	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5911	Thank you, Mr. President. For the citizens of Novi Varoshi this will be significant, because it is property, and they are therefore and how interested to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5912	Not just for the citizens of New Varoshi. It's important to all of us. Thank you very much. It will be referred to as a parliamentary issue to the competent ministries. The People's Messenger Dejan Perjanic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5913	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are bringing an end to the debate on this agenda point, so I promise I won't take up much of your time, so I don't repeat everything my predecessors have said, but I thought I should say something after all. As you know, we have before us a proposal to amend the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, and that, in my opinion, is at the right time. If we had waited a little longer with this law, there was a real danger of having a Serbian "Hassel". Far from believing that sports events and sports stadiums should have a camera atmosphere, like in Vienna's Opera or Milan's Scully, but going to a family game with small children, lately it's extremely dangerous not to say suicide. I was someone who spent a lot of time with my father in our biggest stadium and as a 12-year-old I watched, in 1978-1979, the success of our club in the UEFA Cup, the 1991 championship march, various magnificent basketball shows in our city. We also enable our children and youth to enjoy carefree sports events that are, unfortunately, rarer and rarer, and the stands are becoming more empty and empty. Whoever was tracking on one of the many cable channels is transferring other German football leagues, so-called. He could see the full stadiums with 20,000 to 25,000 viewers. What about the big games of the Spanish, Italian and English football championships, or the NHL and NBA leagues? For all the civilized world, sports event is a family holiday, weekend vacation, escape from numerous obligations, battery charge for next week's work, not a battlefield or Beirut. With great pleasure, I will vote for this law, as well as other MPs from the DSS-NS Group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I know, and I've heard that there have been a lot of complaints, that rigorous penalties are foreseen, but I think it's the only way to prevent tragedies on sports grounds that are very real today. This law quality regulates the responsibility of all players in sports, starting with organizers, directors' services, sports actors and, ultimately, viewers. It is perfectly normal for anyone who unauthorizedly sets foot on a sports field, or for hooligans who break the law to prohibit the presence of sporting events on a six-month-to-two-year deadline, or forbade the maintenance of a sports event if the organizer did not provide all the conditions for its maintenance. Serbian athletes, lately, have been the best representatives of our country and we are here to help them by passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5914	The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, and let Konstantin Samofalov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5915	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, sport is a need for young people, sport builds a free atmosphere which, above all, calls for play and learning. Sport promotes co-operation in many areas, because sport activity offers the opportunity to achieve physical and mental relaxation. With success in sports, the sense of self-esteem grows, as well as confidence in itself. Sporting is an ideal opportunity for education, but also for quality social contacts. If free time is unfulfilled, unorganized, then there is a greater possibility that young people accept force as completely normal, and that they use it as such and independently. Media and political influence was crucial to creating social concerns about the violence of the sports audience. Some fans want to draw public attention to themselves because such behavior allows young people to perhaps overcome the identity crisis, as well as a sense of social marginality. Such behavior leads to extremes, first of all, in communication with all who do not belong to the same group. The primary goal of extreme fans is to be seen in the general public, but also within their own cheerleading group. Such groups have three characteristic elements, collective solidarity, marked territoriality, masculinity, primarily thought of loud men's candiding. Events in the stands are often not related to current events on the ground itself, but are happening completely independently. I'm sure the MUP won't be in great error either, because in Great Britain, where there was always great violence in stadiums, after the law was passed, the violence from the stadium was just transferred and transferred to the streets. The law provides for longer prison and more fines, but also gives additional powers and obligations to match organisers. The changes relate to prison sentences for those involved in violence, above all, on sports grounds. For them, prison sentences are scheduled for one to five years, and if the laws in the group are broken, the maximum sentence is eight years. What we should all pay attention to, as MPs, is that Serbia ranks itself at the very top of the blacklist by the number of athletes killed. In a short time, even seven football club presidents were killed. It's obvious that some sports clubs are used to launder money, mostly when it comes to football and basketball. That's why in the middle of 2005, our football alliance got a yellow card from UEFA and an order to remove mobsters from the Alliance, because, apparently, a large mob group and day-to-day works on a number of football clubs, as well as basketball. It is our job to act preventively together, to make violence tend to decline and to minimise violence in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5916	The People's MP Konstantin Samofalov has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Ljubenović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would first of all view this question as a problem for young people who, apparently, because of all the tragedies our society has been going through for the past 15 years, have been hit most severely. My generation was led by fathers to soccer stadiums and other sports facilities, but my friends who are 20, 30 years old are not allowed to lead their children. Our stadiums are dimly empty today, and it's no wonder every 10, 15 days when you see some beatings and broken heads; fans are fighting among themselves in one cheerleading group, with other cheerleading groups, with police, breaking and burning chairs and jumping that fence that separates the stands from the field like a joke. In the strongest European leagues, there are no fences that separate the stands from the field, there are some commercials that can skip a five-year-old, but that's not happening, because there's no telling what to do or what to do. Still, I don't think our fans are the worst, like they used to try to introduce themselves. We often say that we are the worst, and I would like these changes and many other changes in other areas to set an example for others, in this case, an example of how to cheer. I would look at this issue in the context of European integration. Serbia has undoubtedly defined itself as a European path, Serbia's citizens in the vast majority support joining the European Union. Serbian citizens who love sports want to watch their clubs in competitions organised by UEFA, but in order to be able to participate in these competitions, we need to respect game rules and certain standards. We can't have what we had at the beginning, let's say, qualifications for the upcoming European football championship, when Serbia's team played its first match at the Maracana against Azerbaijan because of the problems our fans had caused at previous matches. However, I think most of our fans are great and on their wings our team has won numerous medals. "Red Star" and "Partizan", mentioned so many times today, won European and world titles in basketball football, in water polo. This question applies, first of all, to that small group that breaks, causes riots, endangers the lives of others, and sets an extremely bad example for our youth. That is why the Democratic Party supports this law. Also, we believe that the provision regarding the challenge of racial, religious and national hatred and impatience should be defined closer, where the final consequence should stand - proper conflicts and riots, and then sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5918	Thank you. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, and may Miljan Rangelovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, wisdom is to find a measure, and at this point it seems to be the hardest. Aggressivity, she's constructive, she's desirable, she's lifeless. It serves to survive, at the same time, to create, to defend, to fight and adapt to the challenge of time. However, the moment that this aggression is not constructive and goes into destruction, or evil, harms others. In that case, you can talk about the phenomenon of today. The Serbian Radical Party condemns all incidents in stadiums, but not the free opinion of our fans. It is well known that fans have become partners with club management. It is not unknown that most clubs pay their fans a trip to games played outside the country, help them extract visas and have certain co-operation. How long does the public of this country expect that against such, least said, unsportsive behaviour of fans take energetic action and once and for all introduce order, put things in place and prevent the savagery of various groups and groups of desperate ones?- I'm sorry. If things don't get taken seriously right now, it's just a matter of days before some of our selections get on the rails and get punished for turning out as well. Someone may say that this is not just our problem, that such unsports, savage appearances of fans are elsewhere in Italy, Great Britain, Poland, Denmark. Right, but that's not our problem and it falls into the water our paranoid tendency to even things out. "And how they, why only we, hate us," there may be a little truth in these words, but it doesn't give anyone the right to go unrelentingly insinuating in spite of our sport for some sick experience, personal or group frustration and dissatisfaction. Because our clubs and athletes pay for it. Since the fines, the Football Federation and our clubs have been able to build a football house so far, not beg UEFA for some kind of donation. Although there is no excuse for the actions of Serbian fans, which must, undeniably, be eradicated, the impression is that the European Football Union does not have the same arches for all. Because how to explain Michelle Platini's proposal to suspend all Serbia's football selections, even a senior team in women's competition, for two years. Fortunately, Platini's proposal didn't go through, but it's a serious warning for our football organization and the clubs that represent us in Europe. In fact, representatives of the European football house warned the Serbian Alliance that it would have no mercy on national teams or clubs in the future. The comparisons are inappropriate, but the fact is that some have committed more serious incidents and gone without adequate sanctions. Doesn't that show the best case of 'Partizana'? It is precedentd that the UEFA leaders have requested that their authority's decision be annulled, believing that the disciplinary commission has imposed an inadmissible fine. The sooner our clubs and the team realize it, the better. Only when the 'Partizan' was expelled from Europe was it found out that the Belgrade club, from 36 games played in Europe, paid 25 fines, mostly for 244,000 francs. Our official organisation, security, will have to pay more attention to the safety of fans in the future than to the organisation of the sports event itself, so, if it is estimated that the security conditions are not met, that the MUP prohibits the maintenance of sports events. Clubs also need to take greater responsibility in the organisation of sports events, and they need closer contact with fans in overcoming the incident situations, as their responsibility is also the greatest. The directors should prohibit access to drunk or drugged fans, the organiser from selling and drinking alcohol at a distance of one km, relatively the size of the city. We need to understand that change cannot only be passed by law, but, above all, the awareness of people and the willingness of organizers for a better organization. And, that fans continue to use club features in sports performances, but also state, scarf, hats, uniforms, banners, and return to our traditional values and way of cheering and encouraging our athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5920	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miljan Rangelovic, and let Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed ministers of the MUP, let's begin to clarify one replacement of thesis, which has been here for three and a half hours. I don't know how many speakers that fans and hooligans are the same. It's not the same and you can't talk like that anymore. We know that people who deal with this problem have identified three and a half thousand hooligans, who are regularly filmed in various stands and various stadiums, and we are talking, exactly, about these people. In the last hours, we've been listening to the champions of some parties convince us that this law is actually too repressive. I wouldn't agree with that. Let's think of the same party champions as all of us, together, standing outside the entrance of some hall. So, what happens then? On two different sides come two groups of hooligans who are going into their conflict, which will happen right here where we stand. How does it feel now? Do we still think that law is too restrictive, or should these people be punished, and properly punished? For many things I belong to a group of young people and spend most of my free time with young people. As a result, I know very well the problems of young people, especially the problems of young people in sports. Young people deserve to be the central theme of our stories and our work. We must not remain deaf and blind in front of disturbing events on sports grounds and around sports grounds. Bad examples are regularly repeated, and these bad examples give both bad results and bad lessons to young people. We have to stop it. There's no compromise here. The most important thing is the safety of every single person, every place and every moment. G 17 Plus will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events. This law is the fruit of co-operation by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. That is why, we must trust this law much more, and we must pay much more attention to this law. This is about young people. This law represents a decisive step towards the security of our citizens, above all, towards the safety of young people. I will present to you the basic characteristics of this law, which are the abolition of the intention, prevention and messages of this law. This law has existed before. Many have said that he has not been implemented into action and ask us what is now going to change significantly. This law has been implemented, but we are not satisfied with the results this law has given. For what? It's just because of the intention. We're now throwing out what the hooligans in the courts were getting the most out of. When members of law enforcement arrest them and bring them to the judge, the hooligans then say - we had no intention of making riots, we wanted to rejoice. As they rejoice, they say - let the prosecutors prove it. In such cases, it often happens that these hooligans end up back on the street, and most of the time they're unpunished. We have to get in the way of that. Therefore, there is no compromise with this. I heard that people completely underestimate the seriousness of the problem, and I am convinced that fans will be much safer when this problem, today or these days, is solved. We will all agree that the basic objective of these laws is, above all, prevention, not, as some want to show, punishment. The punishment is just one of the consequences of misbehaving. We want to remove the causes and that's the hard part of the job, which we can only do if we forget about both parties and any other division. The goal of G 17 plus is to remove the very idea of inappropriate and risky behavior. G 17 plus believes that when it comes to young people, there must be no compromise. We need to get to know all the people with the contents of this law and the consequences of misbehaving. If someone wants to disrupt other people's safety, they need to know he's facing a rigorous punishment. We know that every cheerleading group can respect this law, if it wants to, or if it has to. Now it's up to them to choose for themselves. I note that both fines and prison sentences have been significantly increased. For example, one who misbehaves, breaks the rules and becomes a mess or damage to property, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. If someone in the group commits a crime under Article 20(1) of this law, they will be punished by a prison of one to eight years, and for the ringleader, for the same crimes, the sentence of prison is one to 10 years. Also, an official or responsible person who does not take the necessary security measures is threatened with someone's life, injuries to the body of a larger number of people, or damage to a more visible extent, a prison sentence of three months to three years has been threatened. It's my desire never to have anything happen that would make this law apply. This law is proof that the state will no longer tolerate those whom we are all ashamed of, and some fear and fear, and because of them do not visit manifestations that would otherwise be visited. By this law we send a message to the bad that they will be severely punished. It's been a while since the bad guys were in fashion, it's been a while since the insolence was forgiven. If someone's willing to endanger someone's safety, they'll have to bear the consequences. With this law we send a message to people who are not hooligans, we send them a message that they will be safe at sports stadiums, sports halls and other sports events. Sports stands aren't made for hooligans, they're made for people who love sports and who want to support the team they're rooting for. The stands are not designed to prove the naked power or to demonstrate stupid ideas. From now on, organisers will be responsible for public security and punishment for them, when they do not provide all the necessary conditions, they go, even, to a million dinars. This law is a message to the world: we are not proud of the so-called cheerleading groups that cause trouble. We will no longer be late for civilized and modern states. We'll punish the wrongdoers, because no one has the right to endanger the safety of people. No one but authorized persons has the right to take justice into their own hands. The government in Serbia is tasked with protecting its citizens and protecting its legal order. That's why I call on all MPs to vote for this bill. Erasing the intent, which was called by hooligans, prevention, which is the basic meaning of this law, and the message sent by this law -- that hooligans will be punished, and that fans and other citizens will be safe, give us enough reason to vote for this law. For safety and security, for fans, for Serbian citizens, G 17 plus will vote in favour of the law. If we talk less and we work harder, taking out society, part by piece, we won't have to imagine what it would be like with party champions in front of some hall, between two groups of hooligans.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5922	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let George Mamula be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5923	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike my predecessor and MPs of the ruling coalition, I believe this law does not solve the problem. This law only puts out the fire, as they would say, deals only with the consequences and causes of the problem and does not touch it. The causes of the problem are elsewhere and the causes of the problem should be sought and solved elsewhere. Of course, we should include this in all of this, but we need to get out of the family, we need to start from school, so we need to start from those earliest years, from the earliest childhood of every single person, so that each of us, each of us, is properly raised and prepared for life in the right way. We lost that bond to reality, to this country, to this country. In fact, we don't teach our children in the family or at school to love their country, to love their people, to love their country and to have a positive relationship with it. It then causes, later, all the negativity that happens in this country. I will not repeat what my fellow predecessors have already said, given that the time I have is very short. I'd just say we haven't heard from the minister who's been positive or the effects of this law that has been existing for four years. This law was passed in 2003 and we haven't heard what it has positively brought to this society, this country, since we see that there are many negative phenomena on our sports manifestations in the last few years, even with fatal outcomes, with murders. I would refer to Article 2 of this proposal, which lists one section of preventive action, which I insist on. It is said that, in order to prevent and reduce the risk of violence, sports organisations and clubs, they are obliged to encourage the organisation and behaviour of their fans, etc. This is what was in the existing law, and in this proposal, item 6, reads: 'It promotes positive behaviour and the performance of players and officials before, during and after the sports event'. This is very important. It is important who, by this law, is obliged to encourage both athletes and managers, including fans themselves, to behave positively. They should be encouraged by those who run clubs. Unfortunately, in the last six or seven years, our clubs have been run by politicians, our biggest clubs have been taken over by politicians. They didn't take them over to take care of the situation, they didn't take them because what they're writing in the law and doing now is controlling the money, because there's big money. Let's just remember, it's Mr. Batic coming in, that somewhere after October 5th, the day he triumphed here, he said on one of the TVs, it seems to me, even on state level, that he invited Red Star fans to the Federal Assembly on October 5th, and he created that chaos that was done there. At that time, it was necessary to triumph, to show the then DOS coalition how important each individual who participated in all of this, but to do so is in each legally regulated state. Of course, that's what Mr Batic will answer for when someone else comes to power, someone who has the courage to do so. Also, Mr. Batic knows how "Worker" from Obrenovac entered the first league several years ago. So people who run clubs, and they're led by people who are in crime and politics, can't solve our fans' problems this way, as it says here. I would take the opportunity, since the minister is present, to look back at the state of the Ministry in the last period of time, of course, and in the period since the current minister led the ministry. I have a document here, and I'd like to ask, since I'm going to quote the good part now, to stop time. The document is called -- a conclusion on the launch of a disciplinary procedure against a member of the MUP, who was the president of Serbia's police union. I wouldn't mention the name of a man, I don't know a man, and I'm not his lawyer, but this intrigued me because I'm talking about the situation in the MUP, and that's why it's very important. Namely, 31. 5. In 2007, it was written, and it was written 4. Handed over, or seduced. A disciplinary procedure has been initiated against a certain member of the MUP, because I quote, please just stop time, "day 10. 5. In 2007, as president of the police union of Serbia, held a press conference in the Media Centre in Belgrade, where he spoke of the dictatorship of Police Minister Dragan Jocic and at this time presented arbitrary, incorrect and false findings and claims concerning the overall work of the Ministry of Serbia, the behaviour and work of the minister of the Ministry of Interior, the elder of the Police Administration for the City of Belgrade, making serious violations of official duty, carrying out false claims about the Ministry, conduct that harms the reputation of the service or violates relations among employees, from members of this and this Law on Police." It explains: "On the basis of the case file, it has been found that there is a basis of doubt that the police officer, as president of the police union of Serbia, has organised and held a press conference at the Media Centre, on the subject of the "Dictation of the Police Minister Dragan Jocic", and thus made arbitrary claims: that nothing has been invested in the MUP of the Republic of Serbia since the beginning of the term of office of Mr. Minister, in police officers who need to carry out the tasks that the state has put before them, and all these transactions are meant to protect the state border, the establishment of public order and peace, the protection of property and the life of our citizens, through all other types of crime prevention that our society faces." I don't think this should be explained and proved, that's evident. From former Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, of the material assets at the MUP, it is very small, or nothing new has been obtained, at least we ordinary citizens don't see it. Secondly, he said he was obstructing and banning the work of Serbia's police union. Next, 33 apartments were divided in Belgrade, by the system -- I know you, you know me. Speaking of the relationship to the families of the dead and wounded colleagues, he said that certain elders on totally unprotected people are living to treat complexes and to treat the sick minds, that police officers, when providing sport manifestations of greater importance, are given a chain of cans from 1945 and 1950. Furthermore, that certain elders in front of the pension, when attacking cheerleading groups against police officers engaged in the security of sporting events, do not want to issue an order to use the means of coercion, because they plan to get into the "Red Star" and "Partizan" as soon as tomorrow, that 1,297 attacks on police officers have not been responded, etc. I will also quote a few segments from the daily press, which were very shy about this problem, that is, this event, and the daily list reads, "A press conference shows that employees are not paid overtime and night work, compensation for a warm meal and a regress and travel expenses, which is why the MUP will have to pay huge damages, or compensation, because employees have sued." Also, "no systematic checks have been carried out in the MUP since 1990. In a group of 33 apartments divided in Belgrade, only four employees deserve apartments, others get them and rent 'em. "There's still no law on the state border." Well, there is, so the police that secures the state border have a duty, the law doesn't, and some other laws are being put on the agenda. It also says: "According to last year, 1,297 attacks on police have been recorded in the performance of official duty. Prosecutors rejected over 90% of these cases as unfounded." So I'm gonna end up with this. The situation in the MUP is alarming. I would ask Minister Jocic to deny this, if he can deny it. A good part of these allegations cannot be denied, because we all see the situation on the streets, but I say, all of this is somehow incompatible with the democracy that Mr. Minister radiates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5924	Thank you very much. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5925	First of all, as a minister and as an elder, I won't let anyone tell the truth, that he's free to go to the media and work with the police. I won't let anyone do their job without doing their job, in a certain way, a union organization, and that's out of function and on behalf of the police. You've said it well and read it, but you're not two things. That's what he wrote - where he was at school and who instructed him? Has he been instructed by a certain group of people from Croatia? Ask him what he was doing in Germany and who he was getting advice from when he went there. When you get answers to those questions about this man, then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5926	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5927	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported, in fact, to the replica of the presentation of my distinguished colleague. I can say that I've never encouraged anyone to do any destructive demonstrations, to be proud to be a member of the DOS presidency, to be proud of being a participant of the October 5th event, to be proud to be involved in the destruction of a non-democratic regime that has done so much evil to one country, to one nation, which has brought us back decades, to be proud that I was the minister of justice after 5 October in the government of Zoran Djindjic, that I am happy that the 'Deli' took part in the October 5th events, but no one has called them, and you have no proof that they have destroyed anything, the kids, burned. I'm talking, of course, like a Red Star fan. I am proud of all these things and many of those ideals and ideas, desires and aspirations of millions of people, who spent years and their lives destroying a non-democrat regime, whose consequences we still suffer today, which have spent a decade in the streets, squares, in the winter, in the ice, in the snow, in front of the cordons, in order for Serbia to change. I'm proud of all that. I'm sorry that some of our comrades turned the turkey upside down, I'm sorry that this peaceful democratic revolution has failed, I'm sorry that they made a pact with the devil, that is, with our enemies. That's why Serbia falls asleep today, which is why Serbia is in the mud today, in the living mud, because everything cannot be justified by a broad coalition capacity. There are ideas, there are ideals, there are programs, there's something you have to stand for, principles, attitudes, beliefs, principles. If you fail, you have failed not only those whom you have led and whom you have promised but also your descendants, your ancestors and yourself. The only thing that you've said has nothing to do with the subject that's on the agenda. Today we have violence on the agenda at sports events. Many revolutions ended in blood, so the whole world welcomed the epilogue of these revolutions. This peaceful democratic revolution of ours, fortunately, had no bloody epilogue and, I repeat again, I witness all these events and I'm not ashamed of anything, I'm proud of everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5928	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5929	Mr. Batic, this has something to do with the subject, because many politicians, even you, when you were in a situation, abused fans. And what I said, I saw with my eyes somewhere after October 5th. You said on one television, so condescendingly, triumphantly, that you were the one who commanded the Red Star fans to enter the Federal Assembly. And what happened after that was, we know, the consequences are visible and day-to-day. That the goals of the revolution were such or betraying, is your problem and the problem of the coalition where you were and where you are today. Minister Jocic, as far as this other man is concerned, I don't know the gentleman, I've never seen him, nor am I his lawyer. I just took out what was written here, read it, and now I'm saying that part of this is true, because, as ordinary citizens, we see cops on the street every day, who drive cars, do their jobs, and we know what their salaries are. Their salaries have been modest and haven't changed in the last few years, and they drive the cars that were purchased during Dusan Mihajlovic. I wouldn't open a story about how he got it, but we don't see any new equipment on the streets, and they're very hard to do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5930	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5931	Mr. Dulic, I appeal to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. What to do, he's gone, Batic. Why am I calling on that member? I'm gonna say right now that you're not the one responsible for this injury. I'm not asking to vote on this, I'd just like to draw attention to some details. The fact that Mr Batic is proud of certain things, I ask all those who follow this transmission to realize that it is his system of values and I cannot change it. I'm not even authorized to change that system of values, though. I can agree, I can disagree, etc., but today's topic is violence in a public place. Now, which is a football field, a sports object drawn as something specific, that's another thing. In principle, I'm going to touch both of them. Thirdly, very significantly, we have not yet discussed the issue of this violence, in theory it's called the coup. What are the consequences of this violence? I don't think, Mr. Jocic, there's yet to be a return of the weapon taken from that police station on Mother Jevrosima Street. Returned? Well, it's not returned. Who's got it, that's what you're gonna find out. I know that no pictures have been returned, and I know very well that more than three futters and four curtains have been lost in the Federal Assembly. What's on fire is what Mr. Micunovic and his reconstruction fund know best, but I doubt only three futhers and four curtains are on fire. When someone talks about democratic fluids, about democracy, about spilling blood as an integral part of the struggle for democracy, I have to tell you that it was in 1789. After that, we went into something called civilization fluid. I don't agree with that date either, I think since he's human, there's been this desire for freedom. When someone from this pay phone about methods that are the opposite of freedom tells them that they're proud, I can only tell him, as far as I'm concerned, that I can't wait to come to power. Mr. Minister, do you remember, at school, there was a study of this example, called "sensical lynching." It's a special form of complicity for the criminal group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5932	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5933	He remained recorded in the history of rights by some of the German officials. It's about the English pilots who were captured, carried out through the place of Esen, the authorities didn't provide protection, so some were lynched. It was later discussed, and the English insisted on the criminal responsibility of these people. I insist on the criminal responsibility of these people, I will never deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5934	Mr. Krassic, thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5935	Article 104. Mr Batic here said that now these others have made a pact with the devil. To remind you, the government is currently running DSS, DS, New Serbia and some minority parties, I have not been informed that there are others. They didn't exist as a party on October 5th, they were so-called. Independent experts, that's why I don't mention them. Afterwards, an American organization formed the G17 institute, and then the party formed out of it. That's why I don't mention them, otherwise, I know they're in power, much more than they should be. Now says Mr. Batic - a real pact with the devil. There is only a lack of Mr Batic of these devils; they are all together, all exercise power, with no need for makeup. Please, what is he talking about? On October 5th, those who now exercise power were the team. That Mr. Batic won't have anyone on the team right now, I'm sorry. Once upon a time, he saw people not knowing he couldn't, so he approached Chad, so now he's playing the opposition. So don't let him tell us about it. All honour to those who understood October 5th as an opportunity to change the political system and entered it with the legitimate means of political struggle, but, please, there are still 87 images missing from the House of the National Assembly, Konjovic, Šumanović and others, they have never been found. There are 187 steam boilers missing from Belgrade's former slave house, from the basement, which can be loaded, so to speak, I apologize for that verb, only the fork. There are at least 1,500 vials missing in each perfumery within a few hundred metres, etc. So I don't dispute your legitimate right to fight for political change, even, by such means. The problem is that you've had with you the worst social foundation that exists in this country and abroad and that pays you every day to participate in this event, at a price that you can no longer pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5936	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5937	Sports is a war of friendly means, as long ago said, and the sports dictionary is a military dictionary. So, victory, defeat, resistance, bomb, break the opponent, break the defense, etc. Because of a football game, a war broke out between Honduras and Salvador, as I recall. Violence at Hazel Sports Stadium has taken 39 lives of Italian fans, and it has been a waterworks in European legislation, which refers to preventing violence on sports grounds. So, violence was caused by English fans, and England, as we know, is a fair-playing event, a gentlemanship, but also extreme cheerleading violence. Recently in Italy, in Katania, a police officer died at a football game in February of this year, and in Parliament Italy was passed a very strict law on preventing violence in sports fields, fields. The Home Secretary dedicated the law to that dead cop. The law is very strict, so what we heard here, that there is no strict legislation in Europe, is not true. So there are planned fines of 10, 20,000 euros, up to 100,000 euros, for those clubs that have ties to extreme fans. There are scheduled prison sentences for those who lead to a break-up of the football match with torches and other props, or if they carry banners that call for violence. They went one step further, so they obliged football clubs in Italy to give tickets to children under the age of 14, to get their families back to stadiums, and banned the sale of a block of tickets to guest football teams. The price was too expensive, but they brought those measures. Two hundred twenty-four MPs voted in favour of the law, and 20 did not vote because they were absent. Therefore, it is a very strict, serious law. Recently in Romania, the neighbouring country, also envisions a very strict law, due to the beating of the cameraman at a football match with chains. It hasn't happened to us, fortunately, to Hazel, but there have been deaths and it's time to pass one of these laws, because a passport for a journey to maturity costs. Someone pays it cheaper, someone pays more expensive, and this proposal is meant for those who have defined that the way to maturity costs them more. Of course, it is necessary to accept that there are such people who understand that language. However, when we talk about violence, we need to know that fans, before they come to stadiums, come from some families, from some schools, so we need to talk about the responsibility of parents, some parents, some families, some schools, that so bring up children that we have more and more violence in the family, the violence of parents towards children, and also children towards parents. There is violence from house to stadium, but also from stadium to house, so if we talk about this law, we need to know that society exposes the bill to the police, to the prosecution, to the courts, and forgets some responsibilities. We have an incentive to violence and hate in some radio-television shows, in some amphitheaters, so that the problem of violence cannot be brought down only on the football field. It's a good thing there's been a change here and what's now a clearly defined theatre, which is forbidden, as stated in the explanation, by the mixing of cheerleading groups. It is also very good that the qualification of the work has been modified, because the intention is out, since the intention is a goal that goes beyond the consequences, so that these works do not need to prove their intention. It seems that someone translated the imagination as a intention in 2003, so we got this kind of crime and a bad qualification. I think this law should be supported, especially this solution to punish more severely an unauthorized incursion on sports grounds, because sports court is a place of athletes, as there are jobs in other areas and fields; the workplace and sports grounds are for athletes. We need to remember our multiple tennis champion Monica Selesh, who in 1993 experienced that a fan attacked with a knife, hurt his spine, and I don't think she ever recovered from it and that accelerated the end of her career. We need to support this law, because we will thus support the universal values of sports, which do not know hatred and impatience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5938	The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, after him, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought this topic was something that we'd all agree on here, but as the debate moved on, we'll see that it wasn't quite so. Today we are talking about the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. The minister, explaining this proposal, performed very correctly, saying that the law was also passed in this area in 2003, so we carefully observed, monitored its application and the consequences that are happening today on sports grounds. I guess this is about something else, and I'm also sure there aren't any MPs here, no matter what political group belongs to, who doesn't want a lot more audiences coming to our sports events, a lot more viewers, and we don't have any adverse consequences. One of the participants said that we now have two to three thousand recognizable people at the MUP, I don't know who he meant, and we have to fight them. If that's the situation and we know those facts, then I don't see a reason for this law. The impression is that, as a legislator of this law, the MUP, and its minister wanted to arrange working hours at some retail catering and commercial facilities, recommending, defining this law that no alcohol can be sold three hours before the start of a single-kilometre game, in the cities of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, and elsewhere -- in a 300-metre radius. We have some small places in our beautiful Serbia, where, if that were to happen, during sports meetings, or three hours before that, these facilities could not work at all. It seems to me that through this law, it is trying to introduce what Mr. Canak has proposed -- to pass a law that would provide for three crimes for all those against whom the Hague indictment has been brought, and that those who speak of them in a positive sense are considered perpetrators of criminal acts. I'm afraid even here, through these banners that are scheduled, we won't have one such situation. What, Minister, you, at the provocation of Mr Batic, said there is no love or hatred here. I agree there's no hate, no need for hate, but love should be in every place, in the family, in the friends, in love with the country and everything else. When it comes to Mr Batic, he would, about, if they were 30m banners, give so many years of prison to anyone who would bring such a transparency, let's say: "Dr. Vojislav Seselj, a Serbian hero". With such a transparency, Vladan Batic would likely be willing to impose a 30-year prison sentence. I hope it wasn't your idea for the law to be understood and interpreted like this. However, I remember many of your fellow ministers, when Serbian Radical Party MPs pointed to some of the bad provisions of those laws, which they spoke, so it won't be, that's the situation. One of these is the Law on Religious Communities. When we adopted him, then the minister of religion, Mr Radulovic, said – well, it will not be so, we will have a different situation, and today you see the situation in Serbia, the sects of haraj, and this law on religious communities has, to a good extent, helped to make those sects have a foothold with some Serbian citizens, which is very bad and inappropriate. I'm afraid this is where Mr. Mamula was talking about going to games, or sports events, we're going from somewhere, we're going from home, from school. What kind of sunflower society has started, especially since 2000, and on top of that, maybe someday we'll have to pass a law on basic school behavior, not to mention high schools and colleges. Remember, I don't even want to remind you that we've had a few terrible cases in Belgrade. If we don't pay more attention and love, Mr. Minister, to the family themselves, this kind of thing will certainly happen to us, I'm potentialting it, not just on sports grounds, but long before going to sports fields. It would be nice to have our athletes fight with their hearts on the ground, they do, but the SRS has a good course. For years, our party's president has insisted that people who are involved in politics, unless they are directly involved in sports, are not included in sports administrations, and this has recently been confirmed by one of our best footballers of all time, Dragan Djajic, saying politicians are no place in sports clubs. Let our athletes win on sports grounds, and Serbian citizens, i.e. The SRS will win the polls, therefore, against Boris, as in Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5940	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5941	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry to speak at this time, I assume you're all tired. It is likely that those watching this direct TV broadcast, citizens, are tired too, but I sincerely hope that there are few, for the very good part of the time, as you all know, we spend not considering the laws on the agenda, but advertising the Rules of Procedure. Namely, there are some professionals who advertise the Rules of Procedure all day long, and who, unfortunately, here, as far as I can tell, are almost gone, except for Mr. Rajko Baralic. Even there's no Mr. Krasic, which I think is the number of minutes he spends advertising his Rules of Procedure. There he is. He's here. I'll try to be as short as I can, considering what I've already said. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Violence on Sports Fields and it is quite clear, and before me MPs of the DS said that the Democratic Party would unconditionally support this law. We stand up for him with all our strength, because we think it's one of the most unusually important laws. Unfortunately, like some MPs who spoke before me, I think this law, however, will deal with only the consequences, not the causes, and I'll say a few words about it later. I'm surprised, as well as a colleague from the SRS who spoke before me, I've mostly listened to everyone who spoke today, which we won't have the great agreement of all parties, and of the positional and opposition, when it comes to this law. I really expected this law, however, to be of such importance that we would achieve a high degree of consent. The fact that today the representatives of the SRS and the SPS, first of all, Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic, spoke of this law and made arguments that made it impossible for them to accept it, in my opinion, is, however, political demagogy and advocacy to some of the voters they see in the camp of wrongdoers, or hooligans we talk about. Not every law or non-compliance with a law can be governed by the relationship between us and the Croats and how the Croats do it with themselves. We need to regulate the laws as well as the norms of a well-organized and normal country, a country that wants to join the European Union, prescribe. The ugly scenes that take place on sports grounds that all Serbian citizens are present, we watch daily, and we even attend such events as sports killings. It is totally unacceptable for a country that wants to be well arranged and normal, whether it is defined for entry into the European Union or not. So a country that wants to be an orderly country cannot accept such scenes as are experienced on sports grounds. This law, first of all, wanted to prevent the violence that many before me had spoken of, and it is not good to replace the thesis. He is extremely respectable, if we look at how it was arranged in England, so did the MPs before me, in a country where there were many such phenomena. In a very short time, in about a year to two days, they managed to suppress all these riots on sports grounds with rigorous legal provisions they had adopted. As you can see, there are no more fences, but that's why anyone who enters the sports field is faced with having to go to jail immediately afterwards and be in prison for at least three years. Also, we all stand together, I heard it from opposition deputies, that this law, in some way, suppresss national, religious and racial impatience. In that sense, I welcome the provisions of the law, and I don't think it should be changed more significantly in that part. What I'd like to say and what I'd like to underline is that we can't blame the fans for everything that's going on on in the sports fields. In fact, they may at least be to blame for what's going on on sports grounds. We're witnessing that many sports clubs lead, I'm not going to say criminals, as was said here, but they run people who don't belong in sports. It is a public secret that the administrations of certain sports clubs finance the departure of fans, buy them tickets and, in a way, make a good contribution to everything that happens on sports grounds. We can't blame everything that's going on on these sports grounds just on fans. The whole society, the government and all of us together need to make an effort to stop at every turn what is the accompanying phenomenon or what is, in some way, the cause of these phenomena. In the end, I'd like to say that we had a law that was mostly quite restrictive. I think it's not so much a problem with the provisions of the former law, it's that this law wasn't consistently applied. I ask the minister, who is here, the people of the judiciary, that when this law, which we are considering tonight, is adopted, are consistently applying his provisions. In the end, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the minister, since the minister has turned down the question he was asked today. A meeting of the Serbian National Machine has been announced these days in Vojvodina, or Novi Sad, one, as far as I know, of a professional organisation. I don't think it's right for the minister who sits here to take it all away, even though it's been asked a direct question -- is this meeting reported and has the Ministry of Police at all had any response to this meeting, or is it gone, and is it too quiet to go over all of this?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5942	The word is made by Minister Jocic, and then by the MP of the People, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5943	I answered the last time I was, in one sentence, which is that the MUP will not allow the peace and calm of citizens to be disrupted. Be assured that we will be determined to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5944	Thank you. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and the Messenger of the people is Bojidar Koprivica. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first and foremost, as this morning, I will warn the Serbian public that we are in an unconstitutional state, that we have moved on to a certain agenda without fulfilling our obligations under Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution and that Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and Oliver Dulic are directly responsible for it. It turns out that now the most important thing in the world is this law on prevention, that is to say, amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving in the sports stands, which we are discussing today. I remind you, and many of my colleagues also reminded us that we discussed this law in 2003, when the basic text of the law was passed, so it was changed in 2005, and now again. It's the same story over and over again. We in the SRS haven't changed anything we said in 2003, because we're people who have their own party program. Every year, of course, on the same subject of the same opinion, unlike some others who spoke here today. It is very interesting how many MPs from the parliamentary groups who will vote for this law have actively participated in this debate today. That's, of course, good. For me, it was devastating how our colleagues, who will therefore vote in favour of this law, who support the government, talked about fans, about us, about our people. It's just amazing that there's been a rumor around here that we're all uncivilized, some hooligans, some gangs, some criminals. If there are such in our people, they are mostly high-ranking in power in our country. It is truly amazing, especially by a number of young people, MPs, that today they have spoken, and said one colleague and that after this law we will no longer be in the order of uncivilized peoples. I don't accept that we're uncivilized. I accept that there are some people who, in any area, are even when it comes to fans, are not sufficiently civilized, or are uncivilized, misdemeanors, etc. Of course we have to fight against them all, and we have to fight them the right way. What is foreseen by this bill is absolutely unacceptable, inadmissible, and we, of course, will not vote for this law. We're not going to, first of all, because this is one of the Lex specials, and the SRS is in principle fighting the Lex Specials. We advocate codified legislation, we advocated and advocated codification of criminal norms. We can't accept that every law you propose and that is adopted here has a group of crimes or offences that either don't exist in the existing Criminal Code or the Law of Infractions, or there are, so you repeat them. In one case or another, they don't belong in these laws, or, specifically, in this law. I just got word from a man who's an active fan, which, of course, I'm not. He told me -- I hear you've been announced to speak, so tell the minister that it's obvious that this bill was written by someone who's never set foot in a sports stadium. Then it occurs to me that it certainly isn't Mr. Minister Jocic, but Minister of Ballerina probably is. Well, ballerina has been announcing these days, and I expected, before we got this proposal, that she would be the one to represent this law and some youth program. We didn't see that. Our MPs at the Sports and Youth Committee asked the Ministry for the youth programme, to see what the ministry is preparing. Of course, we don't mind if it's something that will really improve the lives of young people in Belgrade. Given how it is announced and who announces it, we're not sure it'll have any effect. It is said here that SRS MPs, criticising the bill, are collecting some political points and serving political demagogy. That's inadmissible. The name of Alexander Vukic is mentioned, that he is a political demagogue in this case. That's absolutely not true. I repeat, these are the views of the SRS. We never court any target group, but we always speak openly about what problems are, as well as how we, when we take over power in Serbia, would solve these problems. We've heard here that there have been our sports manifestations of disorder, that, unfortunately, there have been tragic events. Of course, that's true and we condemn it and we have to do everything we can to prevent it. But it's amazing that the reason for this quick vote of this law was something else. It wasn't the cause of events that were happening in Serbia, the tragic cases that were happening in Serbia, but the occasion was, my God, what happened in Shiroki Brijeg, but here your media completely mistranslated it. They claimed that our fans, the Partizan fans, were provoking fans of the Great Brie. The truth is completely different. That's where our fans were cried out - kill, kill a Serb. That's where our fans were beaten by police, police, dear colleagues, not fans, which is even worse. So they didn't have the protection of the country they were playing in. Then they got even more beatings because, while the police beat them, it was right after Boris Tadic's apology to the Croatian Ustasha state that our fans started shouting - Boris, apologize. For that reason - Boris, apologize, we have this bill today and we have completely inappropriate measures, very high penalties. We'll talk about it in detail when we talk about it, the colleagues talked about it, and they'll probably talk about it, too. So, inappropriately high sentences, with a large range, with full possibility, i.e. leaving judges and courts to decide. I don't know who's going to decide which group is prone to violent behavior, because you predicted, there's also a term in the law -- groups prone to violent behavior will be banned from entering stadiums. What groups are these, how did you imagine it? Some kind of joint criminal enterprise, criminal associations, about that's how you treat them. I'll remind you in another sentence, so I'll finish, you used to be, it wasn't that long ago, October 5, 2000, you DOS used one piece of the fans and they were tools in the hands of DOS. We know what was going on then, and now, from time to time, it says that a group of fans from the police station on Mike Jevrosima took a larger amount of weapons, that a part of that weapon was later found in the Sports Society of Red Star, so it was related to the name Nenada Milic, then assistant interior minister, now functioner Cedine LDP, etc. So, you, gentlemen of the DOS, when a situation suits you, then everything is allowed, and when it seems like someone doesn't like you, then nothing is allowed. I end up, the Serbian Radical Party is against every type of violence, against every type of crime, but we don't think our fans are uncivilized, violent. There are fans and such, we should fight them, but it is unacceptable for all of Serbia to hear today that MPs of the congregation's most ugly names call a large number of people who, I think, primarily for patriotic reasons, cheer either for their clubs or for the national team.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5946	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5947	Dear MPs, there is no doubt that sports courts in Serbia, especially in Belgrade, have become the place of reckoning, I would say, more everyone than real fans and sports fans. I dare say this is one of the imported behaviors. The need to introduce order and ensure the safety of people and property on them has no alternative, but the question is, can only be regulated by law, no matter how repressive and rigorous. I don't think so. The existing law on preventing violence and misbehaving in sports events does not deny me in this, and I do not think that this law is sufficient. There are many factors that encourage riots at sports events, and therefore the need to look at all these ugly and dangerous phenomena from another aspect, especially from the angle of appropriate sciences. Authorities should do their job, which means police should take care of public order and peace in every place, including sports grounds. Because, Mr. Minister, if we adopt this law, Article 6, if you really adopt it, practically, you're closing shops and independent shops near sports facilities, which I don't think, especially this law, can be done. By increasing the sentence, any prisons, any coins, which are proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law, nothing more radical will change. The fines are too high and present a threat, before the real sanctions, for the simple reason that the defendants, most often young people, unemployed people, can't and won't pay them. Therefore, this law must monitor a series of activities, which will make more sense for prevention than for any repressive and unpopular measure proposed by the law. That means the word "science" is supposed to come first here. First of all, you need to start with your education, from family and school. If the law is one of the instruments of security of order on sports grounds, it is particularly necessary to regulate order and liability for riots in an adequate way, not to resort to such rigorous and repressive measures, where high, inappropriate sentences of five, eight, even ten years in prison are threatened. So, this law introduces new crimes, although the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, in my Chapter XXXI, I am telling you as a lawyer with long-standing practice, already contains several criminal acts that represent misbehavior on sports grounds, so it is Article 7. The bill that introduces these crimes is unnecessary and should be deleted, especially because it is suspicious and there will be a crime, not to mention imagination and wine. Also, you introduce rigorous penalties for violations, as well as protective measures, that's Article 9. The proposal, compared to the existing Law of Infringements, cannot and must not be a lex specialis. Also, you introduce a 10th sentence of up to 60 days, or a fine of 30,000 to 50,000 dinars for a natural person who brings alcohol into a sports facility during the event. Really, justifiably, I wonder what the monks are doing, what the police are doing. In the same article, with the punishment for a violation of a natural person, you introduce the pronunciation of the protective measure of confiscation of the case. This is very important, pay attention. In that case, this law would be a lex specialis in relation to the Law of Infractions, because it does not provide for this protective measure, so I'm surprised that whoever wrote this law allowed you to pass this into the legal norm. In order for this measure of confiscation of the case to be expressed, as a long-standing lawyer, and applied to the perpetrators of the offence, it is necessary to taxively state the reasons for the statement of the measure, which has not been done, so this measure cannot be applied. I believe that the proposed amendments and additions to this law will not change anything more significantly, but it is necessary in a different way to approach this really big problem which, unfortunately, is escalating. That's why the SRS has submitted a number of amendments to fix one of these bad laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5948	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević and Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement a law that really cannot be adopted because it has not been done, nor has it been prepared from the aspect of a legal-technical order, nor have there been precise definitions. In this law, a lot of things are proposed that are not defined precisely. I'll refer to Article 20. What is an act here and is it a crime, is it a crime? Article 20 is amended and reads: ''Who is not authorized to enter the sports field or to enter the sports field or part of the theatre for opposing fans to challenge violence, physically attack or deal physically with participants in sports events, commit violence on arrival or departure from sports events, enter into sports facilities or throw on sports field or watchers objects, pyrotechnic means or other explosive, flammable or harmful substances that can cause physical injury or endanger the health of participants in sports events, damages the sports facilities, its equipment, devices and installations, which by their behaviour or paroles cause national, racial or religious hatred, or impatience... 'Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking a question - what's understandable here and what's clear here, what's here, precisely, the subject of a crime or a crime? I read the provisions of the proposed law in Article 20. You have 30 incriminations here. You have one who comes into the field unauthorized and enters the playground - for him is a punishment from six months to five years. If he physically attacked someone, fine up to five years. If he's hurt someone physically, the sentence of prison is 1 to 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the expert public, and especially those who need to apply this law tomorrow, will be in a very difficult position and can never apply it. If a person at a sports event is injured, and it is not said and does not define that the person is easily physically injured, it is one form of responsibility. If defined, as a serious form of responsibility, that person is severely physically injured, or if, due to physical activity and physical assault or use of certain means, a person devoid of life, here all of this is wrapped up and it's all in one piece, so I don't know which judge or inspector will be able to make the right decision for all of these cases tomorrow. Why, as a lawyer, do I feel that a definition of individual cases should be made? Please, the definition must be precise and clear, logical and applicable, that whoever applies it to the perpetrator can understand, that he can apply it and that he can impose sanctions. The question set out in Article 5(5) is now being raised. It is said: "If the organizer of sports events does not act on the ministry's orders, and due to observed shortcomings to a significant extent, the safety of participants in the sports event may be compromised, the ministry may prohibit the maintenance of the sports event. "The question is whether the minister will be introduced and will he participate here in deciding whether a single event will be banned? Secondly, what procedure can be banned, and, thirdly, who will bring about the solution and who will be authorised to lead the procedure for the ban on holding the event, and whether there will be a lesson in that decision on the legal remedy, as our constitution provides, that everyone has the right to appeal against the decision of the state authorities? In this definition and the proposed norm, it is missing that the provisions or the Code of Criminal Procedure will apply or the provisions of the Act of Procedure, Mr Minister, criminal or administrative proceedings will apply. I believe that the transitional and final provisions should have defined that the provisions or laws on offences, or the Code of Criminal Procedure, or the Law on Administrative Procedure, would apply when applying this law. As far as the intention is concerned, we cannot say here that this is the wrong intention of the promoter, because the consequences that have been evident and that have arisen in the past, in any case, indicate and warn that they must be taken properly, therefore, adequate and adequate measures towards the perpetrators and misdemeanors who make such acts at sports matches or events. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, you remember, the case that happened at the stadium in Belgrade when that young man from Opova died because an explosive device was thrown at him; that boy had no life. What I would like to point out from my personal experience is that the decisive role, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Jocic, must have an organ of internal affairs here, i.e. The police, who must define, to carry out the classification and selection, to address only those harsh criminals, i.e. it shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the person who has been registered does not have access to the data referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. In no way should many fans and athletes in our republic be put in the same basket, not all of them should be identified and dissuaded with the same archaic that they are guilty and thus discouraged. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and the police, and the public security service, have their own register of offenders. In that log of the wrongdoer, you can tell exactly who the extreme villains are. According to these defectors, appropriate measures must be taken to ensure order and peace and that the game or sports event may take place under normal conditions. Who's to blame here? I haven't heard from Mr. Secretary, and no one has even asked him how many criminal charges were filed against the wrongdoers and, secondly, what the prosecution has done, what the court has done and what the judge has done in all these cases, because these are the parameters under which we have to manage to pass one law. It is not enough to view and say abstractly now - a law should be passed that will sanction those who violate order and peace and who threaten the maintenance of a sports event. It is necessary to seek out the cause and responsibility of those who have had the opportunity to decide and sanction those who have committed crimes and offences so far. As a result, the interior ministry has the rights, but also has the task of laying down accounts for Serbian citizens, to account for prominent athletes and respected fans, and to allow sports events to be held in normal conditions. A large number of officers are engaged in a large number of sports events. That number is enough if security is properly organised - one degree, two degrees and three degrees - according to the degree and type of manifestation. That's what the highest responsibility must be for the police, she's right, but also for the instruments in her hands. I am convinced that here, ladies and gentlemen, the situation will not improve at all. You have 30 incriminations here and neither one of them is different, whether the one that hurt physically or hurt him seriously, not -- if he's seriously hurt him. In the Criminal Code, it is normized and precise what is an easy physical injury, and what is a serious physical injury qualified by death, what is an attempted murder, and what is murder. This law must endure changes, as much as any action and any incrimination must have a precise definition that will indicate who the doer is and what the doer is waiting for if the same incriminating action has repeated. This way, and according to the provisions of Article 20, Mr. Minister, take and read the number of incriminations in one member and they are all even. And you, and the expert public, Mr. Minister, will be faced with difficulties in the application of this law. What will the judges and prosecutors tell you now? They'll say, please, we can't apply it, file a criminal report and file a criminal report. How can the judge now launch an investigation, how can he make a solution to determine detention, how can he impose sanctions, when all of this is defined and inserted into one member? It can't. If so, it would also be in the Law on Violations, and that would be all in one member, and in the entire Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian radicals are for order, the peace of the citizens. This is expected from the competent resolutions and from the competent ministry, but here it has to be precisely arranged for the norm to be applied in practice. Like this, you'll find a big problem in public. The professional public here will give you an assessment and they will say - it was necessary to separate every incrimination, give it a definition, determine the sanctions, that the sanctions could be imposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5950	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5951	This is also written with a consultation of the professional public and prosecutors of the district court. Just to give one statistical review for January 2006 - July 2007. In this period, a total of 305 serious cases of public order violations were injured, 198 citizens were injured, 27 sustained serious physical injuries, and 171 were mild, while 107 police officers suffered serious physical injuries. 36 means of transport and 15 objects have been damaged. For crimes committed under Article 20. A total of 346 criminal charges have been filed, of which eight people have been investigated so far, and seven people have been brought up with charges or charges, while the rejected charges have not been dropped. Due to the infringements provided for by this law, a total of 392 requests have been filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, of which 17 judgments have been brought so far, and four applications have been rejected. In total, four protective measures have been issued to ban the presence of certain sports events.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5952	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, so Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5953	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Serbian citizens, in their conviction that MPs of the Democratic Party have made it very clear why they should vote for such a law, respecting the proposal of other parliamentary groups, and in order to speed up the debate, I am giving up the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5954	The word has a folk MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5955	I'm reporting for the second time to talk about this law. For the first time, I spoke in 2003, when the public was disfellowshipped because of the state of emergency, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic suffered a ban against entering the National Assembly building for 90 days. And that's when I said this law had nothing to do with it. Here, you see, you've admitted that the law really doesn't have anything. If you're passing this law to calm the public down, it's a promotional vision. If you bring these changes and supplements for something essential, then you're in big trouble. Why? You've introduced a new safeguard measure. In order for the citizens to understand what this is all about, it is a Article 22 where it is said: ''With the punishment for violations, the physicist can give a protective measure of the ban on attending certain sports events, under the conditions prescribed by this law. '" Most citizens will say - what's wrong with that. Let's see what it says in Section 2. It is said: 'The ban on attending certain sports events consists of the obligation of the offender to report directly before the start of certain sports events to an official in the area police department, or police station in the area where the perpetrator of the offence was found... '". So, if you're in Belgrade and you're being punished in Nis, you should report to the police department in Belgrade. Why? And then it's like, "Oh, my God. And that he stays in their rooms until the sports event is over. '"So, he'll be in some police detention. Mr. Jocic, does he have a TV reception at the police station so he can follow the football game? It's pointless. That's how you wrote it. A certain place, a certain, a certain place, and it's all indeterminate. Furthermore, the problem of Article 20 was also present in 2003. With this intervention, you actually dropped the crime. The important element of this crime -- the intention of committing a crime, is that you've thrown out. So, Mr. Jocic, if you're at a football game, you're in the west and you're from that place, or 15 meters from you, a lighter goes off to something, you're a member of a criminal group. In the criminal group, only ringleaders, as instigators, assistants, and inspirers answer. That's what I need to draw your attention to. You've got it all wrong here. So that I don't repeat what Mr. Petar Jojic brought out, now you tell me, if you've thrown out your intention here as an important mark of that crime and said, "Who goes in unauthorized," what are we going to do with the one who comes in? Reddar says -- there's a lot of traffic in the west, so you don't have to bother yourself, skip over the fence. Who is it that determines whether something is authorized or not? That doesn't say here, Mr. Tomic. I'm asking you a question -- what if he gets in, then 45 minutes is quiet, sits next to the fence, etc., and at one point something snaps at him and starts doing some stupid things? He doesn't have a responsibility, because he's authorized to enter. I'm not going to go into that detail, I'm going to do it for the amendment, in respect of my colleagues who are left behind. I need to distract you. Don't disabling the public. You're talking about some English regulations. Wherever the English fans went abroad, they're making riots today. They may have contained that violence on the ground, around the field. Let me not tell you about Totenhem fans, what kind of voice beats them. Don't "it's better anywhere than ours." Next, Mr. Jocic, the problems don't come up at boxing matches. Ring, two of them are fighting, the crowd is cheering, the boxing match is over, and the audience is free to go. By some logic of things, it should be a smudge to the board. In ski competitions, in karate competitions, take volleyball meetings, never happened. Ask national security why it happened. That's what I told you in 2003. We have a law on maintaining general order and peace, but you're looking for a Lex specialis, and you're even going so far as to prescribe what the theater is, what the stadium is, what the stadium is, what the order, what this one is, what that one is. Totally unnecessary. So, get state security and I guarantee you there won't be any drugs on the streets. Get state security and there won't be any criminal cheerleading groups. You've overstepped your authority with article 20, so you've inserted something that doesn't belong here. You see, you say "provoking violence." How can someone cause violence? Then commit violence. What's the element of being violent? What is the view of violence? Further: "Enter, cast among the viewers." Do you know who brings those props to football stadiums? Someone from the club management. You just read the data on the destroyed property, the number of injured officers, etc. You're going to a game, you know what fans and police do? They train - this is the first intervention, they fight well. That's what the police need to handle independently of the law. In order for her to handle it, she doesn't need the law. There's already a law. Someone attacked an official person, a face in uniform, he attacked a state, he fits; you don't need a law, fits the general rules. Now you're out of your mind. What does it mean? Sometimes it's a match? So you went further. Here, now, this law is inapplicable in villages, and as a general norm it should apply everywhere. Simply, you took football, basketball games at great risk and created one story based on it. Did you solve the problem? You haven't solved the problem. We told you back in 2003. Now you've made an even bigger mistake, now they'll stop responding. And you know what "response" means? He found himself, happened to be somewhere. You took the child, it cursed the judge, according to this Article 20, it can be subjected to impatience. "Judge, thief" -- impatience, goes to jail for this one of yours as you wrote. Then I don't wonder why, when I say here, Minister - thief, he folds the tab and sues us. Why did you put in these words regarding the parole? To prevent something, what are you going to stop? Tell me, what law can change a man's mind? There's no law. By law, it's forbidden to kill a man, and murder happens every day. Well, we can't based on the fact that every day murders happen that we're doing some things right now. The smiling of yours reminds me of one of my family law professors. When he was finished, there, fifty-five years old, the rights, got a job, was the judge of the Community Court of Pirot. Someone hanged himself on the only bandit in Piroth and he made a decision to remove that power bander. When they asked him -- well, well, Mickey, why, he said -- there's a danger that in five years someone else hangs on this bandit. That's your law, unspeakable. If you've had problems with Article 20 so far, you've got bigger ones now, but there are mental ones. You can't stop as a form of responsibility to prescribe something that has this degree of social danger. That's totally messed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5956	The word has the People's MP Zoran Despotovic, and then the People's MP Milorad Buha. There are six minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've been sitting around all day, there's something I should say about the law. First, I would like to congratulate, on behalf of my colleagues, the Russian team on last night's great victory over the Spanish, of course. Such a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events could be understood by someone who really doesn't know the basics of sports and sports collectives. What's the size of a sportsman and a sports collective? Well, nothing but affirmation of himself as an individual, a sports club and the environment from which he comes, that is, in which he himself is. In most cases, to achieve a better result, support from the stands is also needed. It used to seem ovations, like today, sometimes passwords, and increasingly bright torches. Of course, in Italy, the law prescribed that -- that a viewer could bring two torches into the stands. We Serbian radicals believe that such a law, as well as many other laws, is blindly copied and not adapted to living conditions. We all know that there are extreme fans and extreme groups at sports events, but there must have been more adequate punishment measures in this proposal. These extreme sentences, which are threatened only in Article 20, I took an indicative of six months, five years, eight years, meaning six months to ten years, are only suitable in the most serious criminal acts. We have to admit that's contrary to Article 10. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which guarantees freedom of expression. With such a proposal, gentlemen, you want our viewers at sports events, if they come, of course, after such a restrictive law, to be politically similar or otherwise. We could see for ourselves in the last few months, on the route -- viewers, fans and sports clubs, where, we could say freely, a lot of things came up on the surface, but not everything. We hope that, apart from so many dosovic mafia affairs, it will come in order and sporting. If that doesn't happen, or nothing is done, the sports tycoons will knowingly destroy our Serb trademark in certain sports, where we will surely experience a shipwreck, if we haven't already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5958	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. After him, the People's Messenger Milorad Kristin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the time, me and my colleagues have two minutes left, so we'll telegraph. What matters from the aspect of the SRS, i.e. the basic objection to this law, is that it is a special law, and we have good general legislation, both criminal and criminal. We had to solve this matter through general legislation, so the Criminal Law and the Law on Public Order and Peace. The next complaint is that the minister did not tell us, now, in this discussion, he gave a little more information on the real effects of this law, and by the MUP, and by the competent courts, criminal and criminal courts. However, the effects necessary in implementing the Law had to be far greater. I think I'm the law, no matter what we say, that, generally, it's a special law, gives enough grounds to act both in a preventive and repressive sense. In any case, fines of 30,000, as well as threatened sentences of five years, provide sufficient grounds for punishing and reducing violence. The period since 2000, when the Law came into force, did not reduce violence. Why didn't it shrink? Because of the social mile we live in and work in. Who are the actors, who are the participants of the entire circle of this event? These are, above all, fans, clubs, law enforcement and judicial authorities. I have to mention clubs sitting in clubs here. In clubs, we have politicians, directors of public enterprises, public figures, etc. They're the very foundation of this violence. The moment an incident occurs, it's these politicians, the leaders, who are doing everything to stop the public and to cover up everything that's happened. In the judicial system, they put pressure on the judicial authorities not to impose measures. Here, we've been informed that 27 felons and 13 criminal charges have been filed against a sportsman at a sports match. I'm interested in how many judicial execution sentences are there? Probably none. Why? Because executives in clubs from the assembly, from boards of clubs, politicians, directors, responsible people, are putting political pressure on them. That's our political mileage. As long as we have such political miles, we will not prevent violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5960	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5961	Ladies and gentlemen, when I was young, I was engaged in sports, and we have before us a law on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events. You, Minister, are well aware that, in particular, there are a number of people on the payroll of the club in the first-ligator clubs. Normally, there's a leader, and that's the man who's in charge of providing a larger group of fans. Your task, and I see that you have passed one rigorous law, your people, the gendarmes and the police, is to conduct conversations, especially at those matches, call them game derbys, with club management, and club management -- to have a conversation with that leader and a number of people who would run a certain and larger group of fans. If you'd done it right, to what's been going on in the last seven years, it wouldn't have come anywhere near. You have knowledge that these people run certain groups of fans, you have cameras that specifically record that group of fans, and you know exactly what the bad guys are when there's a conflict between the two cheerleading clubs. You can stop that always and not let those people, in the next high-risk games, come over to those stadiums. However, it happens that, by intervention of the gendarmes, when there is a conflict of larger fan groups, those who are closer to that incident will be arrested and, God forbid, subject to this law that you have proposed, meaning punishment from half a year to five years, from year to eight years, from year to 10 years. Even though I'm not a lawyer, gentlemen, murderers or rapists, those who rape a more gentle sex don't get nearly this much punishment. Why do you identify people who come well-intentioned to watch games, because they like to watch their club win, with people like this, so they're in an uninvited situation -- whether they decide not to come or not to come anymore. In particular, it was suggested by Mr Krasic, that this law would have a bad impact on local clubs, in fact, on low-ranking clubs, the "beton", as it is popularly called, to those local, municipal, then regional, etc. There's no way to apply it, because it's just rare that the football club of that rank has stands, but the viewers are next to the wire. For your information, only in the low-level clubs there are malfeasances around the game, especially at the end, when three or four cars remain until the end of the championship; then judges full of euro pockets, then assistant judges also full of pockets, and that is certainly well known to you. Until you are able to prevent future judges, who will come to the rank to judge in the first league, I don't think there's room for any further story. This law will certainly be good, and especially must you keep in mind, when the day comes to discuss amendments, about amendments submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. The Serbian Radical Party only wants to help make the law applicable. There's been so much corruption and crime in sports that I'm afraid with this law and this proposal you won't be able to do anything about it. You will only succeed if you really listen to the voice of reason, listen to the SRS Parliamentary Group that has submitted amendments, improve this law and only then can it be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-17-0.u5962	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search. That's what we end today's work day. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
