ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u9999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we have already heard in the debate so far that the DSS MPs will support the proposed three laws or three agreements and we could hear very clear and strong reasons why we will do so. The process of approaching Serbia has been given to the EU intensities during the term of office of the first government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the citizens know it well, and here we are witnessing that thanks to the good policy of the government and the implemented reforms, this process continues. There is no better evidence than the signing of the Agreement on the Facilitated Visa Procedure, as well as today's initialisation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The signing of the agreement is clear evidence that the EU supports Serbia in implementing reforms, and this time it will be clearly felt by Serbian citizens, because they will be able to travel to EU countries in a simpler way. Of my distinguished colleagues, we could hear yesterday what all categories of citizens are covered by this agreement, and I will specifically refer to one category that is certainly the pillar of our country's progress. Of course, it is about students, students, graduates and teachers who follow them when they go to additional schooling and study in EU countries. For them, processing will be free of charge, the request will be processed within 10 days, and they will only need one piece of paper, which is an invitation letter or registration certificate issued by the school, college, university or certificate of courses to be attended. This will certainly make it possible to expand, improve co-operation between educational institutions and EU countries and Serbia, as well as facilitate the inclusion of our students and students in various educational programmes, exchange programmes, etc. This investment in mind, in the mobility of our most qualitative and most prospective personnel and the creation of conditions for Serbia's European perspective, which we do among other things, and this agreement to facilitate the procedure for obtaining visas and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, are in fact a shift forward for our country. Experiences from some other countries, such as Ireland or Finland, say students who studied in EU countries at the best universities after returning to their country have actually become holders of new ideas, better communication, more successful business, whether it is an area of economy, educational institutions or state administration. I think it is clear to all citizens that we need personnel who, in addition to their professional skills, possess both the ability to work and communicate with others outside our country. We all know our country has major poverty problems. The fight against poverty requires the engagement of not only the Serbian government but all state institutions. and when the causes of poverty are analysed, when the most vulnerable groups are analysed, education can easily be seen as one of the key reasons for the existence of poverty. Therefore, the fight against poverty is a fight for better and better quality education. This more quality education, which is oriented towards the future, among other things can be achieved by creating conditions for enhanced international co-operation in this area. I have to say that for a little over five years I've worked as a professor at a high school and that I know well how many smart and talented children we have, who, not their own fault, have had a little harder conditions to learn, cooperate and to see their peers from other countries. Now, thanks to the government's policy of Vojislav Kostunica, and in that past term and in this, we create better conditions for them to work, to school, to learn foreign languages, and thus create better conditions for all of us and our country. So, I mean, it's clear to everyone why we need to support both this and the other two agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10000	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, and let Vladimir Petkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything that happens positively in the most beautiful state is reflected in the people of this Serbia. The liberalisation and relief of the visa regime is good, but it must not be passed on to the harm of the minority people. Is it a condition for liberalisation and visa relief to confirm the Readmission Agreement, which means returning large numbers of Roma and neurons and other national minorities? If it is, it's terrible for a people who come back. Why am I saying that? I know that both the Serbian people and other peoples are very hard to live for, because we had a population shift; we had a war situation in Kosovo, and we know it's hard for everyone, not just the Roma, but the Roma are on the lowest scale, on the edge of life. In Belgrade and Serbia, we have many displaced persons, who are on their own. We know that since 1999 Roma have been living in unhygiene settlements, there are only 167 settlements in Belgrade; there is no electricity, no water, no food for the people's lives. We didn't even provide these displaced faces, avoided faces from the thorny areas, and we receive other faces, we receive a large corps, a large division of displaced faces from the readmission. I really don't know, if we want our citizens back, they're right, and the state has a duty to place that people. As no platform is going to be built, no program is going to be done to bring those people back. Where these people are gonna settle in, we'll see about that. I was listening here and a few days ago I was saying that a decision was made in Senta that Roma couldn't settle in Senta where the majority of the Hungarian population was. Certainly, the SRS has great respect for all national minorities, and for the Hungarians. We also have a MP here, who is Hungarian, and all the other national minorities we have in the party. I ask my friends, Hungarians, do they know what happened in our country -- that there were combat facts, war facts, that it was humanitarian cataclysm, that there was genocide, that there was an extermination of the people, that people had retreated, that the population had retreated after the 1999 technical military agreement. Please, you have to think about that people. First of all, Senta and other parts, where most of Hungary's national minority, is Serbia. Don't we have the right as citizens to move in our own country? In our country there is no apartheid, in our stateless caste system, this is a free and democratic state. Please, if the people have experienced such a disaster, who can forbid them from home? We are a peaceful people, we respect our country, we have our obligations in our country, but please, we are also seeking our rights. The state must respect the rights of all the peoples and peoples of this country, because they deserve it and that is why they are citizens of this country. We have the Constitution and the law of this state. In 39, it allows all citizens to move and to become where they want to be. Today, please, in Europe, people are moving and buying, living and living, let alone in Serbia. Serbia is a multinational, multi-confessional state, which respects all national minorities and sees no reason not to respect it. As for the Roma community, since I belong to the Roma community, I would point out that the state is making some moves that are not in the interest of spreading democracy in our country and not respecting the human rights of national minorities. All I know is that the Roma people are not a retarded nation, that we are the greatest nation after the Serbian people. If nothing else, please the Serb brothers and the leadership of this state, let's take a look at the historical part, where the Roma were and where the Serbs were. Wherever the Serbs were, there was also the Roma people. By defending our country, along with the Serbian people and other peoples, we have given a lot of sacrifices for this country and for this country, and don't let God ever happen again. We are citizens of this Serbia and this country. Therefore, in our country as I said, we have obligations, but we must have rights. Those rights are systematically denied to us. So I wonder, when there is a very difficult situation in our country, we have NGOs 8484 who have been granted the right to work a strategy for the Roma, who are they to know a better situation in the Roma people than we are, the Roma themselves of this country? Why does the state give it to each other, and it doesn't allow the Roma people to work on the platform, to work on a strategy to improve life and the future of Roma in our country. That's terrible. I got a card last night, so I'm gonna read it to you, and that's terrible. We have a civil initiative, a Citizens' Association for Democracy and Civil Education. I don't know how much democracy is in the civil initiative, because we have Radojko Pavlovic who is not Roma, and he is the manager of the Roma Development Fund. Now you see how we have tutors, holding a monopoly over the Roma people. I don't know why. We have always contributed to our Serbian brothers, our country, but we do not have the right to set up such funds and make a strategy for our own people. Therefore, there must be no monopoly over one nation, nor can other organizations that are not Roma, because today we have a large number of our intellectuals, engineers, lawyers and others. I don't know why it feels like this. There's probably a network in the state that's supposed to be working and reading, and a strategy, to take that money for itself, to wash and do it the way it's done. Please, it's not allowed. All I know is that in the National Council of the Roma of Belgrade, I have nothing against Radmila Hrustanovic, my respect for her, but she has more credit for being president of the Council of the Roma City of Belgrade than we Roma. I was the National Council of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and could not even enter the Council of the City of Belgrade for the Roma. That's how it happens. The state is not prepared for the arrival of a great nation, in this number through the reading. Please, and please, the top of this country, we want to work with our country, we don't have another state, we don't want to have. But this country permanently violates the rights of the Roma people to do what it needs for its future, for its progress. I don't know how long it's gonna take or how long it's gonna take. My predecessors said that the human rights of the minority people of Roma, and other national minorities, are being cruelly violated by returning through re-admission. That's not what I'm going to say, I'm leaving it to the state to think about it, but I still don't think human rights are respected. What our Hungarian MPs have said is racial discrimination for you to forbid anyone to enter your country. Well, they're not going in there for 100 or 200 grand. Where do we go with them? You, Mr. Pastor, have said that they return to their place of residence where they were before. I would ask you to be a representative of the Roma community and to go to Kosovo, to the thorny areas, and to assess whether people, Roma and neuros, can return and if you evaluate, then return with them together. You must know that in Kosovo and today, human and minority rights are not respected. You need to know that people go to transporters to market for their house the most necessary supplies. That's terrible. You can't do that. In the end, I would say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that right we have is not our right to do so in our country. I don't know why. Is it because I'm a member of the SRS? If it's my nationality, it's discrimination. If it's political -- it's political revenge. This must not happen in our Parliament or in our country. Sir, if you have anything to say, come here, don't laugh. This isn't for laughing. These are the serious things that I present to you here, and you who laugh, you are the discriminators, the ones who discriminate. Come here and say what you want. This country and individuals in the state, they took away our media. What bothers this country is the media, when we ask our country to integrate into Europe, into the European Community. We want to be a democratic state, and we don't respect the minority people. If minority nations are not respected, it is not democracy, and this country cannot talk about democracy unless it respects its own minority people. I have already said that Serbia is a multinational, multi-confessional and democratic state. We had the media, and now we don't have the media. I'll read you what the law says. I'm not talking about me looking for something. We have the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and it says: "Members of national minorities have the right to establish and maintain media in their own language. ''Also, 'The State will provide information, cultural and educational content in the language of the national minority in radio and television.' We don't have a program on national television, and you've turned off our TVs. If you think it's democracy, it's an honor. I mean, there was a group of people who wanted to go to Strasbourg to complain, I didn't want to. I said -- you can't go either, there's no reason, the state said what she said, we have to deal with the state, we have contacts, we see what's coming, and what's not coming. If we have the right of the state to grant us and I hope there will be a shift, I see that the chairman of the International Relations Committee has sent a letter, and that something will happen. But it was unnecessary for something like this to happen the way it happened. You see how double standards are toward the Roma, I don't know why. In Vojvodina, the Hungarian national minority is not excluded from the media, they are still going on, they should be privatised. And our Roma people, in Belgrade, were shut down after a brief procedure. I have this country, I don't have another state. I urge the state to implement democracy and towards the Roma people, because we have our obligations to fulfil -- to vote, to go to school, to work, to go to the army, to serve the army of Serbia, if we have to go to war to defend the state, and when we have to exercise our rights, there is no us anywhere. There's no Roma in privatization. I'm just going to read to you, from the readmission agreement, because it has 70 pages, it says that the properly implemented readmission agreement, according to the UNHCR, makes the process of returning better arranged, and it should provide some security to people who are coming back, that the negative result of the launch of asylum seekers in orbit. That's what I said, we don't even have the foundation, so we can't even build a house. Where the asylums are going, I don't know. The Amnesty International is assessing the meaning of the readmission contract as a trade in human beings and a substitute for financial assistance. I doubt that the Facilitated Visa Procedure Agreement has made some kind of transaction in order to sign the Readmission Agreement. I hope that in the future, the mistake that has been made towards the Roma people will be corrected and that the Roma will get their seats where they are being decided. I can tell you, I was even thinking about getting out of the country. They destroyed my house, they wouldn't let me be active in a cultural way for five years, but thanks to the SRS, whose member I am, and their project that allows us to integrate into politics and to be better in all the pores of society, it kept me. I want to thank the top of the SRS, because they talked to me and said this isn't long-term, that this is fleeting. And hopefully this will be fleeting. We, Roma in Serbia, only have confidence in the SRS, because the SRS, not only integrates us into politics, has allowed us in most of Serbia's cities to build infrastructure, schooling, asphalting, building houses, we have received 50 plots in Zemun from Seselj for displaced Roma from Kosovo, not to speak to you in Vojvodina, all over Serbia, and that keeps us in the SRS, and therefore 90% of Roma will vote for the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10002	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Balint Pastor, or replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10003	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Damjanovic just said that what I said yesterday about the assembly speaker is racial discrimination. I don't know why Mr Damjanovic thinks it's racial discrimination. I didn't mention the Roma at all yesterday. I didn't say a word against the Roma. I said that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians would vote against the Readmission Agreement, that the SRS would vote, as I heard yesterday from many MPs from the SRS. The reason why we are voting against the Readmission Agreement is because, according to us, the irrationally broad circle of the face of the Republic of Serbia will have to accept and not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason is that the government of the Republic of Serbia still does not have a strategy and an action plan on readmission. The third reason is that, in the light of this proposal, it states that no additional means are needed to implement this readmission agreement. The fourth reason is because we don't think there's any guarantee that Article 78 will be respected. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prohibits the taking of measures to cause the artificial change of the national composition of the population in areas where national communities live traditionally and in greater numbers. In recent months, we have witnessed that some have tried to fight the Hungarian and Roma people, that some have tried to fight the parties of Roma and duchy Hungarians. I must repeat once again, that the Alliance of Duke Hungarians and the Duke Hungarians are not against the Roma, we are against changing the national structure in the municipalities of Vojvodina. As for the decision of the Sana Municipality Assembly, mentioned by Mr Damjanovic, that it is a racist and anti-romantic decision, I will quote that decision by the Assembly of the Municipality of Sent, and I ask Mr Damjanovic to tell me which sentence is discriminatory, racist and anti-romantic. The first point says: "The congregation of the municipalities of Sainta is the view that persons staying illegally in the countries of the European Union, who will be returned to the country of origin in accordance with the Readmission Agreement, should be returned to the territories of the municipalities of origin. ''The second point is the following –''The first Assembly of municipalities's position declares its readiness to accept persons originating in the territory of the Municipality of Sent, regardless of nationality. ''I implore Mr Damjanovic to answer me what is the provision of this decision of the Assembly of the Municipality of Sainta discriminatory, racist and anti-romantic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10004	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Here you are, Mr. People's MP, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10005	Mr. Pastor, you probably didn't understand. I said that humanitarian cataclysm happened in our country, and you can't do it when the war is on, when people are on the run, that you're making any decisions, not just for the Roma, but for any people. That's the reason. You can't, now that something's going on in the country, no one wanted it, neither we nor you, no one, but there's been a war. You know there was an exodus, a cleanup, the most difficult killings, and a humanitarian disaster was brought in. What, are we supposed to ask someone where we're going? Not only the Roma, but at all, the people in the refugees who are from Kosovo, who are in such a situation. Not only Senta, but no municipality in the state should make such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10006	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga, and then Nikola Vukelić. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10007	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly, according to which MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Surely, in the case of Mr Damjanovic, this provision of the Rules of Procedure is not respected. As far as our position on the Readmission Agreement is concerned, there are several facts. On the one hand, if I'm not mistaken, I'm sure I'm right, Serbia is not currently in a state of war, the Constitution of this country has not been suspended, and the declaration brought by SO Senta, days ago, has not been suspended in that period and there has been no war. On the other hand, weeks after this speaker mentions the example of Senta, which has brought one declaration, which only requires state authorities to comply with the provisions of Article 78. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nothing else SO Senta has done. There are no mention of other municipalities that have similar attitudes about this problem. I'd like to quote a statement from the president of the Vienna municipality, who is otherwise a member of the DSS. He said, "Becay municipality has no possibility of receiving people who would possibly be sent to this city through a readmission, because there are no conditions for it in Vienna, and as far as material resources are concerned, there is no reason for them to be returned to Saint." His position, the president of the municipality's position, has practically adopted the Municipality of Senta, so it is also an official document, just not mentioned in this home, probably not without reason. I would like to say once again, Mr Dusan Jovanovic, representative of the DSS, is certainly not a representative of our community, so if you accuse representatives of the Hungarian community of any racial and other discrimination, then you need the same arguments and the same accusations that you are at the expense of others. Everyone heard the arguments and we are convinced that both we and Mr. Jovanovic, the president of the Becej municipality, are right when we seek and when he seeks respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10008	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't help but look at the vote that preceded it, which we had before the debate on these agreements began, on reading and visa relief. It is amazing that the ruling coalition refused to put on the agenda a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the necessity of respect for the constitutional rights of the Serbian people in BiH and condemnation of acts and measures aimed at limiting and abolishing the state-lawful prerogatives of Republika Srpska. Is it possible that at times when the Serb people in Republika Srpska suffer the greatest possible pressure from various European high representatives who question the status of Serbs as a constituent people in BiH, this is not a priority for the ruling coalition, nor even a topic that deserves to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In a campaign for the 2004 presidential election, Boris Tadic, as a presidential candidate, visited the embassy and promised that his arrival as president of Serbia would make it easier to issue visas. That after morning, Boris Tadic's rule would be filled with false promises and cheap marketing tricks, it was seen on the first day after he arrived as Serbian president. Instead of facilitating the procedures for issuing visas, Romania has already introduced visas on the first day of its term of office. Now the presidential elections and some categories of citizens, not all, will be closer, and we ask ourselves, what Boris Tadic will now be talking about in the election campaign. Since there's little time left for our MP group, I'll cut it short. I will only comment on this law confirming the agreement between Serbia and France on the return and acceptance of a person in an irregular situation. Why did Bernard Kouchner, during his term as head of UNMIK's administration, not in Kosovo advocated preventing the illegal entry of the citizens of Albania into the territory of KIM, or Serbia, and why Kouchner is now not in favour of deporting Albanians who came after 1999, but rather, wants them to be rewarded for the ethnic cleansing they performed over the Serbian people. Will Europe allow citizens of the occupied Republika Srpska region to return to their homes or at least safely enter Croatia and visit their properties? Yesterday we've been listening to the Members of the ruling coalition's praises about how this is something epochal, something big, and we haven't heard a word about the visa waiver for Russia. The first step to opening our market to Russia is to lift visas for Russian citizens. All the countries in our environment have already abolished these visas. At any cost, we crash into the EU, not asking for the price, and just working with friendly Russia, we push under the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10010	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Mamula has the word, and let Srdjan Spasojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10011	The proposal for a ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU is concluded with a Union of 27 states, 450 million inhabitants and which creates a quarter of the world's gross national income. The agreement was signed by the government in Brussels on September 18th this year, and should allow it to readmission, namely to arrange the return of persons who are illegally staying in EU territory. It must be said that this agreement is due to large migrations affecting Europe for the past 50 years, especially illegal migration. The left-wing parties in Europe quite helped open the door for the citizens of the world, winning their election victories, it was part of their programmes in the 1960s. Even De Gaulle spoke – Europe from Lamansch to Ural. However, the EU's political scene has been transferred despite the fact that the left parties have largely defended the position of persons who are illegally staying, then persons without citizenship – apatride and refugees. In parts of the EU, resistance to foreigners is strengthened. Not only is the disputed position of foreigners who are illegally staying in the EU, for some parties in the EU, the position of foreigners who are legally staying in the EU is also disputed and this issue is increasingly opening and becoming part of the electoral programmes. Thus, right-wing parties who prevail in the European Parliament and EU countries also had to take care of it and ask the issue to prevent right-wing extremism especially against foreigners. This agreement, in fact, prevents deportation by its content. What we have so far, when it comes to our citizens who have been illegally staying in EU countries, was deportation. It's a very short procedure, not taking much care of human rights and not taking care of phasing out. It is precisely this agreement that is meant to protect persons who are illegally staying in the EU, to allow for phasing out, protecting their rights and to allow for a gradual return. This agreement should be adopted and I think it has also shown that skill policy is possible and that the government has succeeded in achieving what was possible in this field at this point. On the other hand, it should be kept in mind when it comes to EU countries, especially those recently admitted and whose citizens have started to go to EU countries, which were in the first 12 EU countries, and who have started to commit crimes there, as recently in Italy. There has been a dispute between Romania and Italy and there has been a return of EU citizens from Italy to another part of the EU, so to Romania. So there is a deportation of returning EU citizens in the EU, deporting other parts of the EU. This agreement prevents deportation and regulates procedures, so this law should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10012	I thank the People's MP, George Mamuli. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradovic. Please, Srdjan, sit down and then according to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will now officially, formally, appeal to Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but if there were another member who could thank his fellow MP for the information he gave in favour of the debate on the bill, then I would use that member of the Rules of Procedure. Since that is not yet available, I am using this existing to say that it was good that we had the opportunity to hear from colleagues Mamula, these words regarding the situation in the EU in certain EU countries. Because it should be part of the story of the proposal for a law on readmission, part of the story nobody mentioned, part of the story relating to that beautiful, rich, pleasant, transparent Europe that respects human rights, which has an ideal life and where everything is honey and milk and just, well, waiting for them to get some more members and drown it in that beauty of life and that ideality that exists in the West. My colleague Mamul just mentioned some cases. I was quite accidentally in a situation to read the other day in some weekly newspaper, not to mention the name for reasons of unnecessary advertising, where the candidate for the extreme right in Switzerland, who represents the party that received the largest number of votes and, believe it or not, is the strongest political party in Switzerland, the minister of justice, who works the example, says that none of the workers from the former Yugoslavia's space will work in his factory. For your information, it's about 350,000 people, of which 200,000 are Albanians with KIM, they like to say that 10% of the population of KIM is in Switzerland, there are about 100,000 Serbs, and I'm not talking about the other obstacles to the integration of these people into the lives of Switzerland. I mention this minister of justice, I consciously mention, because he thinks that the best way to integrate them into Swiss society is to disintegrate them. I'll set an example of the Roma family, from two months ago, in Slovenia. I don't know if you've had a chance to see and hear it. It's the same thing about reading. When the Slovenian society was not ready to accept the family, even I think they intervened by the Prime Minister and the President of the State, they found a certain place in a certain settlement, there were demonstrations and barricades to prevent them from being placed in the space that was intended for them. Also, the example of the current vice president from Sweden is not actual, because he resigned, or was found otherwise known for claiming – that Roma, Turks, Blacks and Jews should live in special places in the country. It happened that a man was propagating one value, you see one, and the other morals that proved to be false were found to have received some social aid against the law for four years. I'm not bringing this up by accident. We need to shed light on this problem from all aspects in order to let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, or at least try to let them know what awaits us. That is why it would be good if in a further debate, we could still get answers to some of the questions most of the MPs of the Republic of Serbia have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10014	I thank Dr. Zarko Obradovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10015	Mr. Mrkonjic, I refer to Article 136, and I believe that Mr. Obradovic could have called on that member of the Rules of Procedure. It's a good thing that member exists. We really have little information before voting on this bill. It would be good, yesterday I tried Mr. Jocic in some way, if I may say so, to make him come out for this pay phone to deny some claims and give us some explanation. But according to this information, which comes from these three bill proposals, it's because if we vote for those laws, then we vote for that so-called. EU isolationist policy. In order for you to understand this better, I will take advantage of an example very characteristic of theory. It's an example of French radio television. When they hired their children, their relatives, they said, "We no longer receive anyone." And here we have duality: on the one hand, the EU tells us who would be wanted to come to the EU, so it is said that they are diplomats, journalists, etc., all those who have money and those who are not willing to be in the EU – come on, we will return them to Serbia. It's in a new termology form of racism, you know, because under the term "rasism" it puts everything and everything. It's a form of discrimination, Mrs. Comic. (Gordana Comić, from the place: No) It is a form of heavy discrimination. You can justify that, that every violation of the law does not give rise to any right, but you must understand that the EU is, by its definition, bait for all those who believe their human rights are at stake. That's a very nice definition. It is a very beautiful definition that is constantly potential by the European Court of Human Rights, potential importance and the Convention and the attainment of the EU's level of value. It is a kind of bait for all the uninvited in Serbia and, among other things, for Romanians and Bulgarians, etc. I don't want to talk about the problems Romanians and Italians have with the Romanians. But this set of laws is racist, because the EU tells us -- these are desirable in the EU, because they have money, they can pay, and these are not wanted in the EU, come on, we'll bring them back here. And the EU boasts that it protects human rights. Of course, we have everything and everything from Eurofanatics, and it's a national holiday here. Something's paraphrasing today. Do you know what "paraph" means? When the director is due to conclude the contract, he asks the referent who made the contract, and he says, "Paradise this here." What the paraphras means - you guarantee me that everything is legal, and I, as director, sign and bear responsibility as an agent, so when they call me to break something, I say - this one that paraphrased, e, him, him. Today it's national empty, paraphrasing something. What's paraphrasing? What is strengthened is nothing. A single piece of paper is being strengthened. Paraph means - I signed that paper. And when will those rights be? Well, the real ones will be when the dialect is over between the sticks, carrots, and the parade comes like a rope.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10016	Thank you, Zoran Krasic. The word has Srdjan Spasojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10017	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the laws ahead of us are extremely important. New Serbia's MPs will support these laws, of course, will vote for them. It's an extremely important law that speaks of visa relief. There have been various remarks here that certain categories are privileged and that not much will be achieved by passing these laws. I believe that this law is a step towards the full abolition of visas and that is why we will surely support the law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier procedure for issuing visas. These categories of people are: scientists, doctors, athletes, of course, and others that are foreseen. Exceptionally, it's important because we know how many athletes are preparing for some important competition, and then he has to wait in line for visas. I am leading the chess union of Serbia and many children this year are going to the European and world championships, of course, and their coaches and I know how difficult it is for us to get to these visas. It usually happens when it's supposed to be the finale of some preparations, and then the order for visas. We have talented children from Bor, Majdanpek, Loznica, Negotina. From Loznica is the national champion, the little Eric, and imagine the situation when she goes to the world championship must be waiting for a visa. That's terrible. I believe that this is an extraordinary move from the government and the Ministry that this law proposes, as well as from us MPs who should support these laws. There is a situation where our prominent scientific workers go abroad, and I will tell you about a situation from the King, given that the city from which I come in exceptional relations with the city of Lyon, and other than sports, cultural and other co-operation, this co-operation has been established for 10 years, and we also work with the Oncology Clinic in Lyon. Our doctors were almost there and believe me, I know they went to a lot of trouble while they were able to get visas. We know that they showed an extraordinary knowledge and the people who received it were amazed at what they had to do, from all these papers, to give, so they could get visas to travel. I repeat, once again, that laws are extremely important and that New Serbia's MPs will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10018	The word has the People's MP Vlad Vukevic, and let Dejan Rajcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10019	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, the set of laws that we are to adopt today is certainly important for the Republic of Serbia and for all citizens. I would like as well as my previous colleague to say that this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, so the visa relief law itself. When we remember how nice it was in the past, when it was the former Yugoslavia, when the citizens of Serbia had that red passport, which had no restrictions on the borders and when we could travel. Of course, what has happened in the past, we have come to a very difficult situation that we cannot get out of the country. When a man lives in one environment, and he can't get out of the country, he can't make any progress. It can't advance culture, it can't advance science, it can't advance technology, it can't advance economy. Simply, life and the development of a country are being halted. This law should allow prominent businessmen of this country to get out of the country more easily, see new technology, buy, learn a lot, bring here to Serbia and help develop the economy. That healthcare professionals can easily and in a more painless way visit conventions, consult with their colleagues, bring new health technology to this country, and, of course, return it to health care users. What I would particularly like to point out is that there are a lot of people in Serbia who are sick and who have to seek help beyond the borders of our Serbia and our country. It's very difficult when you have patients in the house, and when you have to wait for whether you get a visa or not, these people will be made possible, as they say, one easier procedure and communication with doctors, institutions that are out of this country, and there are sports workers, journalists and others. There is also a large part of the young population, students who will be able to get out of the country and see that outside the environment of this country there is another world that may be working differently, thinking, as well as sharing experiences with their colleagues young people who are also studying in the European Community and in the countries of the environment and seeing that there is another world. All this needs to make this first step possible. So it's one easier communication with the world, with the European Union. For these reasons, New Serbia is supporting these laws, we will vote, because we also believe that this association and stabilisation agreement is at hand, therefore, that it is there and that it should be signed, that this is all one progress that needs to be made and that will be incorporated as a improvement for the citizens of Serbia. It means that in this Serbia, we are finally beginning to think that we should live as a modern world and as all other modern European countries, quite differently, on other grounds, to make it much easier and better, both in communication and in living standards. That's why New Serbia's MPs will absolutely vote, and it's our pleasure. In the end, I mean, very often there were stories here that there were more important laws. There is always some more important law than the law that has been passed, but for those people who have waited days in front of the embassy, who have spent days and nights and rain and snow, and in the heat, it is certain that this is important, and these people have enough and I think this is something that the Serbian Government can be pleased with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10020	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic, and that is the last debater to report for this item of the agenda, and then we will go to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10021	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honor to be the last debater in this set of debates on the proposed laws. And I also have this opportunity to maybe give some closure to the debate that we've been having about these proposed laws, which we've been discussing in the past few days. We've heard of this payphone of conflicting attitudes, depending on who comes from which political camp, therefore, from those affirmative discussions and attitudes to the extreme negative ones. But also those others who have approached the analysis of these legal proposals from that point of view, I am sure that in the extreme line and in the depth of their soul, they are pleased that this will enable them to get closer and easier to obtain visas in the process of publishing for our citizens. Surely this is the first step in giving these reliefs and is one step towards further giving and abolishing, i.e. the achievement of Serbia's visa-free regime towards the countries of the European Union, as well as towards all other countries in the whole world. The benefits of this proposed law, i.e. a set of these laws that we have conducted in a single debate, will have, in addition to all those listed categories, which we have had the opportunity to learn about in the material and during the discussion itself, scientists, students, students and all others, but certainly business, that is, businesses that make any communication with import and export businesses. Their drivers will, therefore, be able to come to the necessary visas in both road and rail goods and passenger traffic in a faster, faster and shorter time to allow the rapid flow of people, goods and capital in general. I would point out that, as far as MPs in this house know, so much because of Serbian citizens watching and following this transmission, that this year, compared to the previous year, goods traffic between Serbia and Romania has increased by more than 300 per cent compared to the same period a year ago. Imagine now how relieved it will be for our businessmen who are doing business with this particular country, which has been since last year and has been members of the EU. At the same time, in this year more than 400%, or four times, increased the amount of goods traffic with Italy, so now Italy, the fact, remained our country's second foreign trade partner, and we are all aware of what that data means. Finally, I don't think it should be specifically said that in addition to this visa relief agreement, which Serbia has signed with EU countries, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro has done the same, and that it is certainly our desire and intention that our country will not be isolated from a desert island on the territory of Southeast Europe, or as we have recently said, in the Balkans area. I think that today's event related to the signing, or paraphrasing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with EU countries, is also huge progress and shift, and that it would not occur if EU representatives did not realise that the state of Serbia is on a serious reform path. One of the parameters is certainly this bill that we discussed for the previous two days and the Assembly will declare as early as the next day. New Serbia's MPs will vote in favour of this set of proposed laws with great satisfaction. I am also taking the opportunity as the last debater in today's debate to invite all MPs of this house, regardless of party membership, to also vote without any ideological or any other prejudice to the proposed draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10022	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Dejan Rajcic. Excuse me, the last member of the debate is, however, Mr. Lasslo Varga, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10023	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the visa relief agreement is concerned, I would agree with the previous speaker that the presentations during yesterday and today were in two directions. On the one hand, many have said that this agreement does not bring practically any relief, and on the other hand, on the part of the ruling coalition, it has been tried to create images that we are minors on the EU threshold. Of course, once again on behalf of the Vojvodjanski MPs and on behalf of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, we would like to welcome the fact that this agreement will be ratified. I would like to reiterate that we are aware that this agreement brings great relief to many citizens, but we must also say that the visa regime remains a rule, and these reliefs will remain only an exception. Practically, I want to underline once again, the ruling coalition members, both DS and DSS, and even the G17 plus, have been trying to create one picture for two days that practically this agreement has reached at least a white Schengen list. Of course that's not true. Even today's act of paraphrase of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement does not even mean that. It was said that from paraphrasing to signing that agreement we still have a long way to go. I just want to tell you one piece of information. Namely, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic signed this agreement, meaning the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on 13 December 1991, and became members of the EU on 1 May 2004, so I would ask all MPs of the ruling coalition to speak about how long the road is ahead of us, rather than trying to create a picture that something epochal is happening today. I expected the ruling coalition during yesterday's or today's day to acknowledge in one or two sentences the merits of those states, otherwise Serbia's friends, who fought for the price of the visa to remain 35 euros, not to increase to 60 euros. The EU's intention was to increase the price of visas to 60 euros, and thanks to vigorous and decisive lobbying, on the one hand the Republic of Hungary, and on the other hand the Republic of Poland, this remained 35 euros. That's why I think it would be fair for this speaker to announce this fact. As for the readmission agreement, after this debate, we are even more convinced that we cannot support the ratification of this agreement. In fact, we are still convinced, and in this no one has denied us, that there is no strategy for the implementation of this agreement, that the action plan has not been adopted. By the MPs of the DS, we have heard a lot of conflicting attitudes, on the one hand, attitudes that speak in favor of what I have said. In fact, one MP said it is necessary to specify the strategy, that mechanisms for reintegration are needed. On the other hand, Mrs Jelena Markovic said that a practical strategy was adopted and that the Office for EU Association adopted this strategy. If that's done, then I think the Education Regulation has been broken. The office certainly didn't have and has no jurisdiction to adopt, as a government service, any strategy. Furthermore, of course, and no one has denied us that there is no means to implement this agreement. No one has explained to us, no one has given us an explanation why it stands in the light of the bill's proposal that the implementation of this agreement does not require financial resources when we all know it is necessary. No one has left the ruling coalition for this speaker, and no one has provided guarantees that the government will in no case violate the provisions of Article 78. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's not denied or a fact, and it can't be denied, there'll be a mass return. It has been said for years that there will be no mass return. Now we're aware that's what's going to happen. In the end, there is no denying that persons originating in Kosovo and Metohija will either be returned to central Serbia or Belgrade, or Vojvodina. So, at the end of my presentation, I would once again point out that SVM MPs and MPs of the Vojvodjanski MPs will support the Visa Facilitation Agreement and will vote against the Readmission Agreement for all of these reasons that we have stated. I also call once again on members of the national minorities sitting in the ranks of the ruling coalition's parliamentary clubs to vote against this agreement, because if these, or our prognosis and our fears are true, they will surely be ashamed of their voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10024	The word has the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, head of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10025	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will, of course, vote for all three laws. We're not trying to convince anyone that this is more important than it really is. For us, this is important because it shows that we have taken a major step towards European integration. No one has claimed that we arrived at the EU door, but in any case we have created assumptions that in the next stage these steps are more visible from the point of view of the Serbian citizens' interest, i.e. that the citizens of Serbia see to what extent the process of European integration makes life easier and simpler for them. I am not going to speak at all of this at all about the importance of European integration and the importance of the speed that Serbia should go on, because that was a lot of talk. What is, in some ways, disputed about the visa relief agreement is the fact that this agreement applies to a limited number of people. The estimates show that the agreement applies to at least twice as many people as it has passports today. So it absolutely applies to all those who have passports and to many of those who do not have passports. In that sense, I don't think it's such a small number, that this circle of people is not limited. So, according to various criteria, a huge number of people fall under this agreement, because it also applies to those people who have relatives abroad, who need to be treated, who work business together, students, students, to a truly wide range of people. It is not the same as the White Schengen List and of course it is our interest for Serbia to come to the White Schengen List where the visa issue would be removed from the agenda. Also, what is very important to us is that the visa procedure itself is significantly simplified. Therefore, the issue of the amount of paper needed is reduced to an absolute minimum, while the issue of visa deadlines is significantly reduced. Citizens can now count on how long it takes to get to the visa and in exceptional cases that deadline has been reduced even to three days. What is disputed and, in fact, does not stand, is the fact that this agreement releases all categories to which this agreement applies, except for business people and those travelling as diplomatic representatives. So all of these other categories, students, students, artists, etc., relate to the exemption from the fee. The most disputing here was about the Readmission Agreement. It can be said that here are key remarks why Serbia accepts an agreement like this at its own expense. I just have to remind you that the countries of our citizens who live in these countries are without a legal basis but usually return, that nearly 20,000 people have been returned without this agreement. I must tell you that these countries, these citizens, will return to us whether we sign this agreement or not. It is the right of these countries and they are using their rights, as Serbia uses its right when there are people in the country who are without a legal basis living in the country. Let me remind you, Serbia has also brought back citizens of Romania and some other countries who have been without a legal basis in this country. The second objection is that the state is not prepared to receive these citizens and has not provided financial resources – such as the obligation of every state to care for all citizens and to provide other citizens within the limits of its own economic opportunities, it is also binding on these citizens. That's why I don't think it's some particular issue, these are not citizens special to otherwise Serbian citizens, they have all the rights as other Serbian citizens and in this sense the state will take care of their situation. What was one of the remarks, to some extent the point of difference in remarks, was the observation that there was a danger that by returning these citizens would violate the national structure in certain countries, and there I really have to say that the European standard, people have the right to choose where they will live. It can possibly be said here that someone is afraid that the state will deliberately disrupt national balance by its organized action. I'm sure the state won't work. So there is no plan, no strategy in these countries in which it would happen, and in that sense I think that these fears are completely unfounded. I really think it is of the utmost importance for Serbia to sign these three agreements, and yet again, it is not a step that has led us to the very door of the EU, but it is a significant step after which I believe that the next steps will be greater and the effects per citizen are much more visible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10026	The word has been issued by Parliamentarian Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10027	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the older generations of our fellow citizens remember that in one day they could book a ticket and take a passport and travel to any EU country, but to the young people here who were born at the time of the greatest isolation and crisis that Serbia has been through, it is certainly not known. Today, citizens of Serbia do not feel like the citizens of Europe, because they are limited by one of the fundamental rights on which the EU rests, which is the right to freedom, i.e. freedom of movement. The situation is becoming increasingly difficult for Serbia because the Schengen wall, which replaced the Berlin Wall, is increasingly approaching our borders. The issue of putting on a positive EU visa list in our public is presented exclusively as a political issue. That is only partly true, because any decision taken by an authorised authority, either by the EU or by a particular state, depends on political will. This political will must be based on certain facts that meet certain criteria. The EU has set these criteria, but they are unfortunately not formulated in a clear list of conditions that, when they meet, automatically place a country on a positive list of EU visa regimes. According to their structure, they provide a great opportunity for discretionary assessment, but point to specific areas where a clear shift in reforms and the application of legal and sublegal solutions should be made. These criteria are set out in European Council Regulation No 539 of 15 March 2001 Processes and transitions which, in fact, mean adapting our economic and social system to standards set by the EU are very painful for Serbian citizens. A low standard of living, a high rate of unemployment, organised crime, corruption, as well as other problems that this society faces among Serbian citizens create the impression that there is no progress, and that the country's European future represents only one dream that will never be realized. Serbia's appearance on the White Schengen list would just be a major boost to this faith in European integration, which exists. This would be the most tangible result of European integration, because we know that isolation brings xenophobia, distance to foreigners, feeds conspiracy theories, and even hate. Being on the white Schengen list means reaching one of the key EU values, which is freedom of movement for people. The absence of orders outside the embassy of Western European states and the free crossing of borders among Serbian citizens would create a feeling that they finally belong to the community of European peoples. On September 18th, Serbia and the EU signed a visa relief agreement that allows different categories of our citizens to get a permit to join the Schengen countries faster, simpler and cheaper than New Year's. The list is significantly extended in relation to the original proposal and covers two-thirds of Serbian citizens who own a valid passport, but it remains only one-fifth of the total population, given that only 11.7% of citizens, only one-nine, have valid travel arrangements. So, to travel through Europe, most Serbian citizens will still wait for visa liberalisation, i.e. visa waiver, and in order to start serious negotiations on white Schengen, Serbia will not only have to adopt a series of laws, but also invest several hundred million euros in modernising its border crossings. At the same time, we signed a readmission agreement requiring Serbia to accept the return of its citizens from EU countries who entered there without valid documents, as well as a third-country national who entered the territory of the EU country illegally from Serbia. The final word on these agreements will be given by EU justice and home affairs ministers at the meeting on 8 and 9 November, and the European Parliament has already declared itself by a reduced procedure, so that these agreements would enter into force on 8 January 2008. Along with Serbia, visa relief and readmission agreements have been signed by other potential members of the Union – Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, while Albania has only signed the visa relief agreement since it has signed a readmission agreement earlier. Nationals of Croatia, which has been the closest to EU accession in the region for years without visas, are entering EU territory. The paper is also that EU ministers have approved Croatian citizens to travel to Italy, Slovenia and Hungary only with ID cards. Visa relief concerns all countries in the region, while visa liberalisation will depend on how fast each country meets the necessary conditions such as document security, foreign border protection, the fight against organised crime, smuggling and illegal trafficking. In order for Serbia to reach the so-called The White Schengen list will have to meet a whole series of technical conditions, i.e. to adopt appropriate laws in line with European regulations. In the area of the visa system, this means issuing secure travel documents and documents and harmonising the visa system according to EU standards. In addition, this includes the adoption of a law on foreigners, and another task, effective border control, involves the establishment of civil border control. The law on police has already been passed, then there is technical equipment for border crossings and training of the people, and for that to be passed a law on state border surveillance. There is then effective application of two existing, the Law on State Administration and civil servants, as well as coordination of work within and between services at the border. We know and heard that the strategy on integrated border management was adopted early last year. The third requirement is to build a asylum protection system, to pass asylum laws, which will be discussed at the next session, and whose application starts on 1 April and the application of the Readmission Agreement with the EU, are bilateral agreements with 18 European countries already in place. A draft state strategy for the reintegration of returnees has been drawn up, but funding should be provided for this. It is not only the EU's political will that our country joins those whose citizens travel freely across the EU. It depends on when and how successfully we meet these criteria will depend on and when the Council of the European Union will approve Serbia's transition to the White Schengen list and later the full liberalisation of the visa regime. As far as the Readmission Agreement is concerned, some 24 thousand requests have been made for the return of Serbian citizens. This does not mean that these persons will be returned at once, but planned, and the agreement defines the return procedure itself. The return of Serbian citizens is realised in the context of European integration, but it is necessary for the state to adopt a strategy for reintegration of returnees and a plan to help its citizens. The biggest problem with reading is that most returnees are very poor, without property and with no means to live, and often without personal documents. During the past decade, a large number of refugees from Serbia, including a large number of Roma, found temporary refuge in Western European countries. Many of them have not received refugee status or have been suspended from temporary protection, so the conditions under which these people return and begin a new life in the former homeland are more than difficult. The Roma who otherwise form a particularly vulnerable group are in a particularly difficult position. There are other problems that I can isolate from the following – the lack of accurate data on the number of returnees, on their territorial location, on the structure of the returnee's family, on the number of single parents' children, and then, due to the lack of personal documents, returnees will not be able to exercise basic rights such as the right to health care, the inclusion of children in the education system, the achievement of social protection, and there is a lack of a temporary and permanent housing programme of return families. Therefore, in addition to building a strategy to help returnees, it is necessary to open local reception offices, then, reception centres, to extend the action plan for Roma returnees to the entire return population. For the return and acceptance, as we have heard, the Service for Human and Minority Rights. Finally, by confirming the readmission agreement and visa relief Serbia is located, we can say freely, halfway to putting on the White Schengen list, but we should do everything possible to get this other half of the way by the end of next year. The G17 plus parliamentary group will certainly vote for these three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10028	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10029	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. With all due respect to the Roma national minority, and Mr. Shin and Mr. Jovan Damjanovic know how much my respect for the Roma national minority is, I have to inform you, and the citizens of Loznica have in some way told me to say what happened these days when Mr. Omerovic came to Loznica, allegedly, to defend the citizens of the Loznica Islamic Confession. Citizens of the Islamic Confession Loznica hurt that he declared them Roma of Islamic confession. I apologize again to Mr Damjanović and Mr Shine. Loyal citizens of Islamic confessions have always declared themselves Muslims. They don't have their own language, their language is Serbian, Serbian Croatian, so I'm telling Mr. Omerovic that he can come as a politician to propagate his political party, which is normal to every politician, he shouldn't come to Loznica and serve some things like the current situation in Loznica, and you know that there was an attack on the premises of the Islamic Community in Loznica, to use it for political points. As for Loznica, citizens of the Islamic Confession Loznica have always lived correctly with Serbs and other citizens of Loznica, but appearing in these premises of the party who are trying in every way to win supporters and make it possible for populations to experience such unkind events. I would ask that the future of every politician who comes, to popularise his political party, his political ideas, but not through citizens who are other nationalities and religions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10030	I thank the People's MP, Suleiman Spah. The word has Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10031	Since I don't have the option to conclude otherwise, that's why I'm reporting in accordance with Article 225. Voting against the law is not the Roma party's position not to support Serbia's integration into Europe. So it doesn't necessarily mean that someone who is against this law is not for one pro-European Serbia. The "No" of the Roma Party to this law is in fact an indication that this law does not fully respect the responsibility of the European Union and Serbia's responsibility towards future citizens of the European Union, and these future citizens are the administration of 100,000 citizens that the European Union wants to return to Serbia. So our 'no' is a warning and a sign to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, in negotiations with the European Union, it must in a clear way contribute to the construction of some new models, some new principles in the European Union, because we don't have to learn everything from Europe, maybe Europe can learn something from us. What Europe would have to learn from us, in order to fully affirm both their values and our values, is that Europe and Serbia have to share responsibility with citizens who want to return from the readmission process, and ours against this law is the fact that we do not see any guarantees, only – will be done. We do not see that anything has been done to those people who have already been returned from the reading process, though, who has not been defined in this way by law, for which we are undoubtedly all witnesses. So, the fact that nothing has been done in that direction gives us guarantees, as of January 1st, it is due to begin returning Serbian citizens from the European Union, that we believe that the whole situation will change overnight. That way I want to argue, once again, that the Roma Party does not have enough elements to support this law and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10032	I thank Srdjan Shin's MP, thank you, too, for Mr Damjanovic, who withdrew his discussion. I am concluding a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the Facilitated Procedure for the Issue of Visas, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation with the Protocol. In view of the fact that the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, I set out October 7th, means today, 2007, starting at 12:00 p.m., as the day for voting on all agenda points of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Resume session at 12.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10033	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum needed to work. In accordance with Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for deciding. Before we move to a decision, Parliament MP Nemanja Sarovic reported on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10034	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention, please, I won't take up much of your time. The trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, began today after 1715 days in custody. The indictment has begun by the prosecution's representative. It is clear, on the basis of what we have heard so far, that the indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj is political, as is clear from yesterday's pre-trial conference that the president of the SRS, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who voluntarily went to The Hague, has violated a number of basic human rights universally recognised by all international legal documents. It is clear that, contrary to the UN Regulation, the names of protected witnesses have not been disclosed, thus directly disabling the preparation of the defence. It is clear that more than 207,000 pages of liberating material are also not in line with the prosecution's obligations translated into Serbian and submitted in writing to Professor Vojislav Seselj. It's clear that even during the trial... I'd like to ask you to calm down a little bit. I would ask you to still be so cultural and listen to what I have to say, because it is a violation of the rights of a man who today in The Hague represents Serbia and who will defend all of us in The Hague for the next few days. So, the SRS has prepared badges with the character of Dr Vojislav Seselj, which says "Freedom to Seselj" and "Stop The Hague tyranny". When Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly, at the request of the parliamentary group – the duchy MPs and Miss Aleksandra Jerkov, he wore the Badge of Dinko Gluhonjic, whom you claimed to have threatened some human rights. I think that in the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj it is incomparably clearer that these human rights are at stake and I propose to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, in a sign of solidarity and a sign of protest over the violation of basic human rights, Dr Vojislav Seselj is wearing a badge with his character on his lapel today. For representatives of national minorities, we have prepared this badge in Hungarian, in Roma, and of course, for representatives of the ruling coalition we have also prepared in English, so that "Dear George" eventually, if he sees them, he understands what it is they wear on the lapel. (President: Time) I will give a badge to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Oliver Dulic, and I believe that today he will show his face and show how democratic he is and put on his lapel badge with Likadre Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10035	Thank you. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the Facilitation of the VIA Procedure since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier procedure for issuing visas, in principle. For 147, six of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier procedure for issuing visas, in general. For 158, he did not vote one out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier procedure for issuing visas. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the Readmission of persons who have illegally resided since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 105(6) of Article 105. The RS constitution on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts decides on the majority of votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, in principle. For 137, against six, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 131 abstention one, one did not vote 11 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 130, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 158 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 128, two abstentions, it was not 13 out of 159 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since the National Assembly has completed its decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. For 137, against six, a abstentioned one did not vote 15, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia and the Black Gore and the Government of the Republic of France on Return and Acceptance of Persons in THE NEREGULAR SITUATION, WITH THE PROTOCOL Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and I remind you that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6. The RS constitution on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts decides on the majority of votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol in principle. For 137 against four, 17 of the 158 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol in principle. For 136, against 6, 17 of the 159 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of a person in an irregular situation, with the Protocol. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 5 November 2007 at 16.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 100, 3rd and 4th and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 36, against 128, 29 of the 193 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Milena Stankovic, at a session at 10.45 p.m. on 6 November 2007, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 13, against 128, there was no vote of 50, of 191 MPs. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 6 November 2007 at 13.20 p.m., pointed to an injury of members: 27, 101 and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 12, against 128, 51 of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2007. I am informing the MPs that the beginning of the third session today is at 1400 hours. The session is closed at 12.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10036	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF 7 November 2007 (The first day of work) (The session began at 14.10 p.m. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the delay. I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 132 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 125 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. There is no notice that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Thursday 1 November 2007, which in this case means within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. The committee and corrections convened these sessions that were delivered to you contained a proposal for the sitting agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to put on the agenda for emergency acts, to extend the agenda and to change the order of the agenda. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Constitutional Court Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 October 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, it did not vote 13, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 November 2007, and that the proposal be considered as the 5th item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Nine out of 141 MPs voted for 132. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, proposed to put the draft decision on the agenda on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 November 2007, and to consider this proposal within the same agenda point as the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 132, 10 of the 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Canak suggested that the agenda be extended to the new point of the bill banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 11 October 2007. Does the People's Messenger Nenad Canak want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For nine, against 116, with seven abstentions, 12 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure for the extension of the agenda and for changing the order of agenda items, pursuant to Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 130, against one, did not vote 16 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act, submitted by the Government; 2. The choice of the Constitutional Court judges from the list of candidates submitted by the President of the Republic; 3. Establishing the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges appointed by the President of the Republic, on the proposal of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly; 4. Proposal for an asylum law, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by National MP Nada Kolundžija, the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica; 6. MPs' questions. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Work according to established agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court (Principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate is on the principle of parliamentary groups for five hours, I find that the time of debate, by parliamentary groups, is the following: The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the authorised representatives of the Serbian Radical Party at this point is the MP Zoran Krasic; the Democratic Party one hour, 16 minutes, 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Serbia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica 56 minutes, 24 seconds; the MP club G17 plus 22 minutes, 48 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group 19 minutes, 12 seconds; the Democratic Party of the Liberal-Democratic Party 13 minutes, 12 seconds – the authorised representative of this parliamentary group is the MP Nebojsa Rangelović; the parliamentary group of the Duchy Hungarian-List for the Liberal-Democracy Party 13 minutes, 12 seconds – the authorised representative of this parliamentary group of Serbia-Cormend Group of Serbia-Corgania, 12 minutes not sent to the 7th to 15 minutes, and 6th to the members of 5th and 6th and 6th in 15th minutes of January to 15th to 15th of January. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Before I give my word to Minister Dusan Petrovic, MP Nikola Novakovic called according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10038	Mr. President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you of the provision of article 27. al. Three and four. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which includes the obligations of the president of the National Assembly to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In Article 43, the secretary of the National Assembly handles the service of the National Assembly and helps the president in his work. I now speak from this pay phone as president of the Privatisation Committee in this conference, and I have performed the same function in the last term. That's why I can't accept a deeply offended opinion and a kind of attitude – before we sink. The continuity of the work of the Privatisation Committee has been interrupted by making it impossible for the Committee to work, so that today the archives and materials of this committee are located in two buildings, in three offices, which completely prevents further work. Like any fine Precan, I first trusted in the promise that by the end of August the problem would be solved. It's August. And then I started texting, and it's such an ugly episode, this correspondence with the secretaries of the National Assembly, I'm going to forget it quickly, and I was forced yesterday to address the president of the National Assembly, as the last cry to the official public that the Committee will stop working. He'll stop working while I'm president, which doesn't mean he has to stop working, because the president of the National Assembly has been authorized to schedule those sessions. The Privatisation Committee has one completely different, different way of working from other committees. I have to tell you that 90% of the letters entering this house refer to the privatisation problems that are being pointed out by small shareholders, Serbian citizens. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10039	Thank you. Let me just give you a heads-up. The session of the Committee on Poverty Reduction has been moved from 14.00 hours to 15.00 hours. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President, at the risk of being a little boring both for Serbian MPs and citizens, however, I must remind you that I am already asking questions about the ministry's decision, whether you have received a decision on the session of the Belgrade City Assembly and the illegal election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, vice president and the election of the mayor's deputy. Let me get this straight right now. We really have no intention of obstructing and of transferring it to us in any way, but take this seriously. We simply don't want to reconcile with the fact that you're trying to let us know, by the fact of the final act. It was that, now it's a month, 8 is exactly a month, 9 we've informed you. I have informed you that in some other cases, which is extremely positive and desirable, the Ministry has reacted without doing so, and when it comes to the Belgrade City Assembly, one of the most important institutions, especially considering the budget of the Belgrade City Assembly. I most certainly warn you, even in some way I call on the ruling coalition MPs, DS and DSS, to take this as a well-intentioned invitation to try to put into politics some things that will differ from some of the earlier times. This primarily involves one of the minimums, which is respect for the Constitution and the law. I really can't understand how you can get past that fact. What's so terrible when you're all aware of the fact that there's really a harshest way of breaking both the law and the Rules of Procedure? What's to prevent you from doing what's only possible to do in a legitimate way? No one can take your power, they can't endanger you, but we're simply asking you to do it in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. What else do we have to do to make you finally realize that you have to do this? Unlike you, we won't complain to anyone. We're going to try in one way that's possible for you to see, these kind of calls, really do what you're expected to do. In particular, I also call on the minister of justice, who is in the Assembly today, to have his influence, normally and as a minister in the government and as a prominent member of the DS, to regulate the matter, because believe that we will be forced to get, in a different way, what the citizens of Serbia deserve, which is to respect the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10041	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, I'm joining your call and we'll make sure that the ministry's answer arrives as soon as possible. I would like to inform you and all other MPs, at this session, at the third session of the regular session, there is a item of the agenda called the parliamentary questions. As you asked to put it, when we get to that point then you have the right to ask parliamentary questions. Please don't ask MP questions at other points. This is a parliamentary question, Mr. Todorovic, and I ask you to stick to it now. The deal was to put a agenda point where there would be parliamentary issues, now that item of the agenda exists, and now you're going to have all the parliamentary questions you have to ask at that point in the agenda. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati called according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10042	I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I received an answer from the Serbian government to my question - is our state satisfied with the work of the UN tribunal. I don't know who wrote that. I know that he faxed me Vojislav Kostunica. He thinks I'm stupid, but he insults the intelligence of the National Assembly. I send one question, and he sends me a completely different answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10043	You have submitted a parliamentary question, and you have received an answer to the parliamentary question and have called for a violation of Article 226 which says - the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers, officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, which are necessary to achieve the function of the MP. You are now not satisfied with the answer. You consider that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken because you are not properly informed. So when a parliamentary question is asked at the agenda point that defines it, if you are not satisfied with the answer, you have the right to appeal to this article. Here you go. Now you get three minutes to explain why you think the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10044	I'm looking for an explanation, because what's written here has nothing to do with brains. They say they're participating in the discussion. Now I don't understand anything. What do those in that discussion say in the General Assembly? I am specifically looking for an explanation that in the General Assembly, for example, you are representing the position, based on what was yesterday in The Hague tribunal, the judicial council confirmed that a fair trial was not allowed for Vojislav Seselj: because, firstly, 207,000 sides were not delivered to him as liberating material; secondly, the 24,000 parties to be delivered to him; thirdly, the issue of funding was not resolved and cannot begin the trial; fourthly, most importantly, what does the state of Serbia do? On the basis of Article 13. The constitution, that a man is five years in The Hague, and yet the prosecution is not ready for the process, why is he there? I know it's easier for Mr. Kostunica to be there, but he has to be in Article 13 to protect his citizens and their rights. That is why such an answer is a clear insult to the intelligence of the National Assembly and of all MPs. That is why I ask the Serbian Government to explain this answer again and the subsequent question I asked, not as a question, but to be able to do my job in the Assembly. If they don't respect the Constitution, then why do they rule?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10045	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Novakovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10046	Therefore, I am not advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I remind myself of the obligations of the President of the Assembly and of the Secretary-General – Article 27 and Article 33. As Chairman of the Privatisation Committee, brief data: in the previous meeting of 66 sessions, the average duration of about three hours, 318 agenda points, 658 items, 333 conclusions or recommendations, expedated more than 1,800 letters or replies, held 74 meetings outside the session and held over 500 talks with shareholders, trade unions, workers, and 483 representatives of the executive body and other state bodies attended, 471 representatives of privatisation entities and 1,028 non-members of the Committee. There's no score this year. Problems are solved very simply. The problem is: first, the problem of space. So, there's an office in this building; and there's a staff member, except for a secretary who's currently on sick leave, no advisors and no associates. It's absolutely impossible to work. I've received 200 pages of material today since October 2nd, so here we go. I apologize to everyone who wrote to the Committee, because unless this problem is resolved soon, I will be forced to send all of this to the address of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's waiting for us? The Regulation on the conditions of the auction sale of social capital has been amended and the Committee has not said a single word about it. The procedure is subject to amendments to the Privatisation Act. A privatisation end-of-privacation strategy is being adopted, privatisation strategies for individual enterprises in specific activities are also being adopted. Public debate on the restitution and privatisation of construction land is under way. Not a word of it on the board. There's just no place to go or when. The main theme today when it comes out of this assembly, because life is out there somewhere else, is a free share of action. What do you mean, who and how to discuss it, if we're hanging out in the pioneer park, in the streets, waiting for our material to get wet or not? There are 156 other items waiting to be solved on this committee in the next building. I'll go out on the eve of every session and warn more and more that we've had fewer buildings in the past, and fewer employees, and fewer secretaries, and no problems. Suddenly, something geometrical progress has multiplied, and I cannot accept that someone else's irresponsibility is affecting my responsibility, nor that I accept that those laws of bureaucracy apply as clearly as they are currently in action.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10047	Let me answer you, Mr. Novakovic. I got your memo yesterday afternoon. Give us some time to see how we can help. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10048	Mr. Dulic, I didn't understand who you agreed with about not using the Rules of Procedure rights if your coalition partners here speak according to the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Novakovic twice and still announces that every session will begin with the announcement of the Rules of Procedure. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, it is absolutely his right and we are pleased to see that MPs from the ruling coalition participate in the work of this parliament, but I do not understand on what you are based on your right to warn the MPs of the SRS, and do not warn MPs of the ruling coalition. A lot of this reminds me of Boris Tadic and the division of citizens to Democrats and others whom he has never been president before, but is therefore the president of a smaller number of citizens in Serbia today. That'll show up soon enough. It seems to me, colleague Novakovic, I don't want to challenge the replica, but to remind you why the Privatisation Committee doesn't work. We reminded you when the committees were formed that you yourself would not accept to be the chairman of the Committee where the minister from your party is, because it makes no sense for a party representative to be controlled by the minister who is his party president. You know, it doesn't make any sense, as much as you present yourselves to the Democrats, and that's one of the reasons, here's for the public, which Serbian radicals still don't participate in the work of that privatisation committee. That it is necessary for this committee to start working – it is. In the last term, we participated in this work and you remember your colleague, Novakovic, that we had excellent results. You remember that thanks to the Privatisation Committee, the robbery of small shareholders "Knjiza Miloša" tried by Labus and Divac was prevented, but when we raised our voice on the Privatisation Committee it was prevented. We are prepared to continue to do so, but only if the president of parliament and the assembly majority respect one basic democratic principle, which is that he cannot be the minister and president of the board of directors from the same party. Actually, I didn't answer for this on my own. There are a lot more reasons for Mr. Dulic, which is why I called. If no one answered, I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10049	Here, you have one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10050	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Dulic, you've violated Article 27, Article 104, you don't know Article 199, you don't know Article 226, and this is really something that you can't stand anymore by the President of Parliament. You are trying to convince MPs that they cannot speak in accordance with Article 226 because after seven or eight months, as long as you have already President of Parliament, you have remembered that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that you have included parliamentary issues in the agenda. A short education for you for free, Mr. Dulic. Article 199. Rules of Procedure: 'Employment issues are asked, as a rule, after the National Assembly has completed its work on all points of the agenda. The National Assembly, in addition, may, without a search, set a second time for asking parliamentary questions. '"You didn't ask the National Assembly if we were going to determine a second time, you yourself determined that it was the last item of the agenda of this session, hopefully all the future ones, and that doesn't bother us. So, that's totally fine, we'll respect that, we're prepared for parliamentary matters, and when that point comes to the agenda you'll see that every SRS MP has a parliamentary question for a certain minister, for the entire government, that I'm not talking about it right now. Mr Dulic, Article 225 reads: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP." That's the first attitude. Second point: "For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and the information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly's section." This second attitude sometimes you respect, sometimes you don't respect, the question is what is described here is we get, but it's not the subject of my reporting either. Article 226 states: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." Did you now, Mr. Dulic, understand the difference between a member of 199 who regulates parliamentary issues and a member of 226 - notices and explanations needed for MPs to carry out their work? Can you now say, Mr. Dulic, that Mr. Amjad Migati had no right to know why he didn't get an answer to the question he asked, why did the minister try to play with his intelligence, first of all, the intelligence of the citizens he represents here, and why do you think that doesn't comply with Article 226? Why do you think that what Mr. Todorovic asked is not in accordance with Article 226? In order for Mr Todorovic to serve as MP, he must know whether the resolution minister acted in accordance with Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government when it comes to the Belgrade City Assembly, because Mr Todorovic, among other things, is also a committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly and cannot be here enough to devote himself to his work because he is concerned that the Belgrade City Assembly is functioning illegally and unconstitutionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10051	I agree with you, Mrs. Radeta. Thank you, first of all, for a short course of law. I completely agree with you. Therefore, MPs Dragan Todorovic and Amjad Migati had previously asked a parliamentary question and then came forward because they believe that Article 226 was violated because they did not receive an answer to a parliamentary question that is in line with this. So, I agree, but it's a preliminary question, ask for a notice, and then if there's any dissatisfaction with it, report and advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The question is being asked at the agenda point that is intended for this. If that's okay with us, I don't think we have a problem. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10052	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. I'm asking for an explanation from you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10053	Mr. Batić, you're asking me for an explanation and there's a point on the agenda when that explanation is required, and that's the sixth point on the agenda when you're going to ask that question. Mr. Batic, please leave the pay phone. You'll ask the question when the time comes, and that's the agenda. You can call on another part of the Rules of Procedure and then possibly advertise that point if you think she's hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10054	I refer to the provision of Article 27, to the provision of Articles 197 and 226. Mr. Dulic, you are flagrantly violating your powers under this Rules of Procedure. I don't know who your advisor is, who your consultant is, who told you that advertising the provisions of article 226 is the same as the parliamentary question regulated by article 198. It's two completely different things and you don't have the right to arbitrarily predict when anything will be done. I'm not asking a parliamentary question. In accordance with clause 226, I ask you for an explanation and a notice, and it refers exactly to today's agenda, and then don't try so naively to prevent what you're supposed to explain. What you are obliged to explain is this: we got a list of the Constitutional Court candidates you signed, but without any biographies, just a name and a last name. How do you expect the MPs to discuss this properly and that we are deciding at all, if we do not have any clearer information about what kind of people it is. Why do I say that? When the President of the Republic submitted a proposal for candidates elected by the Assembly, then we found out from those biographies, and you'll hear it in the debate, that some of these people can't be candidates, they simply can't be candidates by law because they've met the conditions for retirement. So we're being offered pensioners for the Constitutional Court judges and give an additional explanation, with the biographies of these people, so that it could be on the agenda at all. Because otherwise, this has all been turned into a farce, so let's at least try to make some order in that circus that you, Mr. Dulic, are responsible for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10055	I thank you, Mr. Batic. The biography of these people and the accompanying documentation that is necessary is multiplied and printed and during today you will get the complete material that is necessary for your work. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10056	The minister is a very tolerated man and was a member of the board in the past so he knows what I'm talking about. Replication to the mention of the Privatisation Committee in general by Mrs. Radete. Namely, privatisation is the most difficult, painful and complicated form of this restitution, or return, of these systemic changes. Anyone who attended at least one board session in the previous session could be proud of the fact that the board was working completely extrajudicially, professionally, really trying to solve the problems of course. The principle that the chairman of the board should not be from a party from which the minister may also be correct, but I will also remind him that he is a professor. Miroljub Labus was party president G17 plus until May last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10057	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10058	Mr. Chairman, Article 104. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know, it's not a problem that we're asking parliamentary questions, it's a much bigger problem what answers are coming to our parliamentary questions. I remind you that about a month and a half ago, I asked about seven parliamentary questions concerning the oil industry of Serbia. I received yesterday's, or the day before yesterday's post, an answer to parliamentary questions, which are at least humiliating. I asked, just one question that would be very interesting, how much of the Trizon, you remember the gentleman who escaped from the court window, and they didn't find him today, how much he owed to the oil industry of Serbia for the service processing of oil. I got an answer not as much as the Trizon is obliged, but says - legal persons who perform the service processing of NIS refineries are Lukoil, Petrobart, Timoil and AD Oil. My question is not at all who is next to the Trizon, but why the Trizon owes so much money, it's about a few dozen million euros. Furthermore, on question number seven, I received an incomplete answer, and I once asked about the purchase of oil from abroad, and then I asked for Moil Koal's company to be based in Cyprus, who owns Moil Koala. One of the owners is Mr. Novakovic, the expert who came with torn shoes in 2000 directly into the government of Serbia, and today is full as a ship, one of the owners of Moil Koal. I asked why only Moil Koal was a foreign oil supplier for Serbia's oil industry in 2006. Let me remind you, of 1,819,058 tons of oil, only Glenkor is 84 tons, for January and February 380 tons, Glenkor is 54 tons, everything else is Moil Koal. Who fills it with pockets and a system of connected barrels, spilling it out of their pockets into their pockets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this country is a big robbery. The Justice Department should take a little care of that. The interior ministry should also make an account. Here, three more minutes and I'm done. All ministries to pack where they belong. I hear Mr. Petrovic said we're making five new prisons. You're right, Mr. Petrovic, you're not going to invest in schools, you're not going to school anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10059	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10060	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure say -- the president of the National Assembly, so that's the first position, but at the first point, he says, he's doing the work envisaged by the Constitution, chairing the sessions, etc., not to read any further. What I have reported for is precisely that the president is doing the work provided for in the Constitution. We just got here through the service list of some candidates, says - in accordance with Article 172(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 172, paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia reads: "The National Assembly elects five judges of the Constitutional Court among the 10 candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic appoints five judges of the Constitutional Court between 10 candidates proposed by the National Assembly, and the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court appoints five judges among the 10 candidates who propose the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors at the joint session. '"I can read, now I've read to everyone, I believe I'm a good lawyer, but I can't interpret where it says here that the president of the assembly proposes candidates. You, Mr. Dulic, are not the National Assembly, you, Mr. Dulic, are no committee of the National Assembly, and you have no right, no constitutional basis, no legal basis for you to propose your own candidates for members of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, Mr. Dulic, you have to get serious, it's about time, your work, because you're falling out of error into error. What you've just done, this can be called some kind of coup, because the coup is when a person in office oversteps his powers or does jobs that aren't within the scope of his work. It is not in your work and you have no authority, Mr. Dulic, that you, as president, as Dr. Oliver Dulic's name, should propose to this Parliament, or to the President of the Republic, candidates for members of the Constitutional Court. Please take care, first of all, of yourself, of pulling this back, of calling the board of directors. The only committee in charge would be the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There is a problem that you are going out late with the Constitutional Court proposal, so that we do not have the law on the National Assembly, so that we do not have a Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Constitution, these are all the problems that you have as a parliamentary majority, which you have as the speaker of parliament, but the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia are in no way obliged to suffer the problems of the ruling coalition, which every few days reflect both on the work of this Parliament and on the life of all Serbian citizens. I invite you, Mr. Doolic, ask some lawyer to teach you, don't go to crimes, pull, you don't have the right to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10061	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta, in the second part of your exposure, you just gave an answer to the problem we have here. We have a Rules of Procedure that doesn't comply with the new Constitution. There was a dilemma between lawyers and experts working with us in the service -- who should propose to the Assembly the names of the Constitutional Court judges to vote those names and send them to the president. So there was this dilemma. Since there is no precise which committee is responsible for proposing the names of the Constitutional Court judges, and the Assembly will certainly adopt the names and send it to the president, I did so as president of the Assembly. So there was no intention of a coup, there was no intention of breaking the Rules of Procedure in any way. Thank you for your well-intentioned advice, but you have just given the answer and you yourself have said that the Businessman is more in line with the Constitution, and that is a good reason why the Rules of Procedure should be brought in line with the Constitution. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10062	Mr. Dulic, you're wrong. Namely, we have obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For a reminder, tomorrow is the day of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, tomorrow is a great Orthodox holiday, the glory of St. Dimitri - Mitrovica and the day we declared the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia last year after a successful referendum. After a year, we come, and tomorrow we cannot round the continent, in a situation in which the state of Serbia was found after the constitution was declared, i.e. before the separatist separation of the Serbian state of Montenegro from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was carried out. This shows all our seriousness, or inconclusion of the National Assembly of the current government. You can now say that the Rules of Procedure are not in line with the obligations arising from the new Constitution, you can say, it does not stand explicitly with the Committee on Justice and Administration, you have a second position that says - the Committee is giving opinions on the proposals for the election of the President of the Courts and Judges (which is what this is about: judges of the most judicial instance in our country), public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and other officials in the field of justice and administration of certain laws and submits proposals on the termination of their functions, i.e. the resolution. A fellow Batic raised a very interesting question here - whether some of these people are in the status that they should have in our society, which is that they are already retired and that is why they stop being tried. You're wrong because you have double arches. I must remind you that although there is no such provision for a member who speaks and defines the work of the Finance Committee, Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, as chairman of the Finance Committee, has also put forward proposals that we did not want, and that we are also involved in this court's election by the President of the Constitutional Court. The only thing you can do now, Mr. Dulic, is tell the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, to admit that you've made a mistake, it's no big deal, though, for the second time in 10 days, but I advise you as vice president of the National Assembly to do so, to take off so much responsibility, that you, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, enter directly into a session with a proposal, or a list of people we don't even know where they came from, in any way. These dorks of biography, Mr. Dulic, mean nothing to me. I'm not a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, like many other colleagues, but I want to go to the Justice and Administration Committee and ask questions. I'm not even a member of the Finance Committee, so even though we didn't have proposals for members of the State Auditing Institution, I asked questions, I got answers about individual candidates, you know how much we argued about it. Don't, please, let the highest court and law that we have yet to discuss in advance be torn down by such a move that you have made needlessly, will also be told by Mr. Minister, who until yesterday was an MP and head of the parliamentary group, and by the time he was in this room, by his colleague Aligrudic and everyone in this room that this is wrong, and that's the only way. Really, I didn't know because I wasn't a member of the Justice and Administration Committee until Radeta's colleague came out, that it wasn't the Committee. This does not allow it to enter the congregation procedure, or session, in the way you just delivered it to us, that is, the competent service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10063	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic, and then MP Dragan Todorovic, and MP Aleksandar Martinovic, respectively, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10064	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I felt the need to report after this discussion which is essentially legal, but also has interference with political planting. First of all, I want to say that previous speakers are wrong when they consider Serbia's Constitutional Court the highest judicial institution. This is not part of Serbia's judicial system, but rather an independent and independent state body, whose status is prescribed in Article 166. The Constitution of Serbia. Therefore, the Committee on Justice and Administration is not a parent committee and is not resolutely competent to make any proposals regarding the composition of the Constitutional Court. It is also true that the current Rules of Procedure do not comply with the Constitution of Serbia and that it is necessary to bring a new one, because there are at least 170 points in which the Constitution of Serbia or certain things are not defined, and that is what the Constitution requires. I believe that the President of the Assembly had the right to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges, as he otherwise puts the draft agenda in the Assembly, and since the Rules of Procedure does not define the responsibility of the Constitutional Affairs Committee with regard to proposing candidates, it is possible in a broader interpretation to designate that committee as competent, because the President of the National Assembly has the right to decide on certain issues, which are not governed by the Rules of Procedure and which do not fall within the scope of any of the Assembly committees, to set one of the committees as parent, to resolve certain legal matters and to refer proposals to the Assembly. If that is overall, it is possible to schedule a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but that is not necessary because this obligation stands out directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing I would like to say is that it is inappropriate to say and to make an objection to a coup in the National Assembly, because in the end these proposals are decided by MPs in the National Assembly in their statement in the day of voting, so that full of legality and legitimacy is respected from the beginning to the end. That would be an explanation. I would like to ask the President of the Assembly, since he is in article 27. The Rules of Procedure set out that the President or the Chairman of the Staff on the application of the Rules of Procedure, that, indeed, he did so at the beginning of the session, influences the other Members not to violate the Rules of Procedure by misusing the right to take words during the course of the sitting. It is clear that the members of 225 and 226 do not represent members who define parliamentary issues, because Article 198. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define how parliamentary questions can be asked and to whom they can be addressed, which is in the section of the Rules of Procedure which regulates the relationship between the Assembly and the Government. It therefore defines the character or way of asking questions and the behaviour of lawmakers in the Rules of Procedure, which should be the correct interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10065	Thank you. I am scheduled for the Constitutional Affairs Committee at 1600 hours and I am pleased that the Constitutional Affairs Committee will propose to the Constitutional Court Judges, who should be the Assembly's proposal to the President. I'm just in this legal void that existed for the Assembly to start working and start working with it. If it's going to end this cholastic debate about how to fill that legal gap, and we all admit that it's not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, because we all know there's a problem about it, I hope that's enough. The Constitutional Affairs Committee will meet and address the problem. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a man really has the impression that you do many things out of need and most often out of great urgency, but you don't seem to arrive in time to do it, and then there are clear consequences, as well as this proposal of yours. Mr. President, I'm convinced and I'm sure you didn't do it out of evil intent, there's no dilemma, but you should have been advised in some way that you should at least do it in accordance with logic, not to be your proposal, because it could have sat in your place, say Mic, and then be Mr. Albianic's proposal or any other vice president of the Assembly, because by the logic of things, when they replace you, they have the same rights. That is why it was necessary for you to have the legitimacy of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs behind you. I think the simplest thing that you have already proposed is to call upon the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to be his opinion, his position, in a way that would be appropriate. Since we've been so late with this proposal, at least to get the start in line with the Rules of Procedure and to end this in a way that would ensure that the Assembly finally comes out with the proposal of five candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10067	Thank you. Replica Vice-President of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10068	Mr. Ristic, it's not worth it, explaining to you any legal matter is an impossible mission. We've been trying with you for seven years, and you're that famous constitutionalist who didn't get far from the preamble, yes, to Milocher and St. Stefan, but you didn't write the letter, and we didn't have a constitution. When you interpreted the provisions of the Constitution, we had thefts in the National Assembly, voting from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, various abuses of 308 MPs instead of 250. You just said such an unprecedented nonsense that I really have to react, and otherwise I wouldn't. It's one in a series of those you said as "legal expert." You just said, Mr. Ristic, that the Constitutional Court is not a court. You said, which is true, that the Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. As far as you don't know, Mr. Ristic, the position of Article 2 in Article 166 speaks. The constitution, which says - decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding. While you tell me that the Supreme Court of Cassation is the highest court case. It is in a regular court procedure, but other fellow lawyers, lawyers, since you don't know it, that decisions of the Supreme Court of Cassation may be such, or the Supreme Court of Serbia so far, to return to a second-degree court, and for these, they say, when it comes to the Constitutional Court - that they are binding and final. So much for what the Constitutional Court is. Please don't engage in any further interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Because when the Rules of Procedure is written, I really have to try to explain it to you in the most collegiate way... You're really not ashamed of anything. I listened very carefully. Mr. Ristic, will you listen to me? Mr. Ristic, I'm talking to you. Don't disturb him. So for years when you've been making all kinds of screwups about the Constitution, stealing in the Assembly, various abuses, the speaker explained to you by the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and told you to hang up that legal degree of yours you know where. You've made your return again, somehow kicked you out of the drums of the DS, so you've had some interruption, so you're back in the assembly bench and I really collegiately advise you not to do it anymore. You might think Mr. President of the Assembly who's a doctor, a doctor, a specialist, an orthopedist that you know something about the right, and you don't really know anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10069	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, you don't have to be angry with me for reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because I'll just be a minute. Right there are several ways of interpreting legal standards -- there's language interpretation, there's target interpretation, there's some other kind of interpretation, there's logical interpretation. If Article 172 paragraph 3 states that the National Assembly sets out a proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of Constitutional Court judges, then, if you do not understand what technology is to reach that candidate list, you may have been able to think this way. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consists of 250 MPs. These MPs were organized into some parliamentary groups or clubs, so you might have thought of consulting the presidents of the parliamentary clubs about candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. I'm not going into it if you were going to, maybe you weren't going to. Sometimes evil happens without intent. But you have essentially done what Mrs. Verice Radeta has said, you have indeed committed a coup, you have adopted more power for yourself than the Constitution gives you, and than the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly gives you. What you just said - we'll schedule a session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee at 4:00 p.m. - what does that mean? Does that mean you're giving up the candidates you're proposing now, because otherwise you're throwing out the National Assembly of Mockingbirds? This is not where the members of some association of fishermen are elected, but rather the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We got one piece of paper showing only the name and last name of the candidate, no biography, no sign of what it is these people recommend to be judges of the Constitutional Court. Here, Mr. Dragan Todorovic can help me. The situation resembles the situation of October 8th from the Belgrade City Assembly, when only one bloc in the assembly had the right to propose a candidate and no one else. Now you completely bypass the parliamentary groups, in fact, first of all, bypass the parliamentary groups of opposition parties and then you get even with the National Assembly. The constitution says that the National Assembly determines the list of candidates, and we get the paper signed by Mr Oliver Dulic, not consulting an absolute no-one parliamentary group, except perhaps the parliamentary clubs of the ruling parties. I don't think, Mr. Dulic, it's really a correct way of trying to deceive the National Assembly of the RS, proposing in an unconstitutional and anti-business way candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. In the end, I apologize, I'm going to say a few sentences, because I have to refer to Mr. Bosko Ristic's presentation. He always has really inventive interpretations of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I simply cannot understand his finding that the Constitutional Court is not a court and that it does not belong to the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. Then the second question is -- why is this institution called a judicial institution, why isn't it called something different. I simply don't see what category the constitutional court belongs to if it isn't the court - whether it belongs to the administration, whether it belongs to the legislation, whether it belongs to the ministries. What's the Constitutional Court if it's not a court? So, Mr. Dolliche, let me finish. Please consult the MPs' clubs when setting out the candidate list. You must have called a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not just now that the MPs of the SRS have forced you to do so. Try to make the candidate system for Serbian Constitutional Court judges serious and give the importance that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10071	Mr. Martinovic, the truth works, talks about the Constitutional Court, that is, the whole process of electing judges of the Constitutional Court has been going on since June. Since June, therefore, seven meetings of the heads of parliament's groups have been held to discuss the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. All parliamentary groups have been asked to submit lists of the Constitutional Court judges. One of these meetings of the heads of parliament also discussed the way of the proposal, then the administrative debate entered and concluded that the current Rules of Procedure did not comply with the Constitution and that it is best for me to sign a proposal for judges of the Constitutional Court to be delivered by parliamentary groups. Some parliamentary groups have submitted a proposal for the Constitutional Court judges, and some have not. I moved the deadline three times, expecting proposals for the Constitutional Court judges to be delivered, they were not delivered. After all the deadlines had expired, I signed the proposal at one of the sessions. I agree with you that we need to discuss this now on the Constitutional Committee, I have scheduled this committee and respect now that the Constitutional Committee is scheduled, which he will discuss, to get out of this termological and professional debate now. I thank you for what you've told me. According to the Rules of Procedure again, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10072	Mr. Dulic, I'd like to ask you for a few seconds of honesty. Tell me, or explain to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament: who has proposed candidates who have been on your list, are they your own candidates, you as Oliver Dulic, are they candidates of the ruling coalition? If they are candidates of the ruling coalition, then what you just said is not true. Then that means that some parliamentary groups have informed you about who their candidates are. If that's true, then tell us which party has proposed each of these candidates who are on your list, that we know that this and this DS candidate, that he and this DSS candidate, G17 plus, etc. At the same time, you are proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the Constitutional Court Act, where judges of the Constitutional Court cannot be members of political parties. Now one thing is not clear to me - whether these are candidates of political parties; if they are, then withdraw the Constitutional Court law from the procedure, because it is absolutely pointless to talk about it. If these are your own candidates, then explain to us on the basis of which criteria you have established that these very people on that list are the best to be judges of the Constitutional Court. Another question, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs meets today at 1600 hours, I ask: which candidates will this committee decide on? Whether the candidates you have proposed or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or members of that committee, will be able to propose any other candidates other than those on your list. I warn you, Mr. Dulic, it would be politically very dangerous for you to put the Constitutional Affairs Committee before the final act and say, gentlemen, a session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee has been called, we have a list of candidates that I have made up, and then - take it or leave it. Either you adopt the list I filed or there's no candidate for the Constitutional Court. These are very serious questions, Mr. Dulic. I understand that you are not a lawyer and I do not claim that you have an evil intention, but make sure that these questions are very sensitive and delicate and before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs meets, please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10073	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic and then MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10074	Ladies and gentlemen, since the minister of justice is present in the government of the Republic of Serbia, I would just ask a question and ask the following answers. A reform of the judiciary is foreseen, and the national strategy requires that the judicial system be independent, transparent, responsible and efficient. However, what is behind this proposal should be said, and what is intended to be done. The new constitution provides for the resolution of all legal holders. Mr. Minister, the problem is the one concerning the Department of Justice himself. I repeat, the new Constitution provides for the resolution of all holders of judicial functions, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. The second question, then, is predicted to join the general choice of judicial officials. The third, firstly, repeats the trial elections by the judges for three years by parliament, and at the proposal of a new body -- the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Fourthly, after three years of time, a new choice of judicial officials is planned, but then a appointment to a permanent judicial office, which would directly carry out the High Council itself, but based on new regulations. The question arises, how the High Council of the judiciary will be formed, and how its members from the judge's ranks will be elected with permanent judicial office, when they too should be elected judges again. Is it just the advice for the judiciary? The next question arises, will the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary be elected from the current functions before these members are also resolved under the Constitution? I believe that, after the judge's release, these members of the High Council cannot be members, because they too must submit to the election, as do the other judges. How, then, will judges be chosen by the Council without being elected before? According to the proposal, the High Council would play a decisive role in the process of elections, both progress, so responsibility, material position and termination of judicial office, organisation and budget supervision, evaluation of the results of work, as well as on the internal arrangement of courts, so that the High Council of the judiciary would have great powers in the appointment of judicial holders, and that parliament only confirms that it essentially puts him in a position that does not belong to him. Just a few more sentences, here it is, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, political supremacy and the struggle for justice by political parties in power. The election of members of the proposed High Council of the judiciary is causing suspicion, and it should have 11 members, seven of whom are permanent judges, six elected and president of the Supreme Cassation Court in place. Although we don't have a cassation court, the law provides for re-election of judges. I ask the question, and I ask you, will there be a re-election of judges and will the judiciary in Serbia be cleared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10075	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. Mr. Todorovic, I have to call in order. No problem. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 98. I have a constructive and well-intentioned proposal, which is to interrupt this session until it comes out of this dead end. Why is this a dead end, Mr. President? One of those who, at least a dozen times from this pay phone, appealed, insisted, asked for the Constitutional Court to be formed and said that the whole legal procedure is missing if we don't have a Constitutional Court that can deal with the assessment of their constitutionality. But we can't, as a matter of principle, do better than nothing, and give us what you can to quickly approach the election of the Constitutional Court judges. Why? First of all, we have a problem with the law. The problem in the law is that the Constitutional Court Act is united, and very ignorantly, two laws have been broken: the Constitutional Court Law and the Constitutional Court Procedure Act and the legal action of its decisions. It's a fake. We're going to try amendments to make a little correction, a little order, but you know, according to that folk proverb, "What's born, time doesn't correct." That's one thing. It's another thing. Neither the Constitution nor the proposed law provide for a clear procedure for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. We have one legal vacuum, one legal void, one total arbitration, and that's not good. Third, the proposal of a candidate for the Constitutional Court by the National Assembly, and I am afraid by the President of the Republic, has turned into a campaign to make not a constitutional court, but a party court. That's not good, Mr. President, not even if the political parties are proposing candidates, perhaps from the order of some experts on constitutional law, let alone like this list, Mr. President, where you have prominent party members. Well, we're choosing a party court? In the world, the judges of the Constitutional Court must be the attorney of the highest rank. And even the Constitution, but no one here reads it, in Article 172, says the Constitutional Court judge is elected and appointed among prominent lawyers. I'm responsible for saying that there may be a man here who fits that term as "high-ranking lawyer." Don't let the whole world laugh at us, because instead of a constitutional court, we'll get a party court. So it's nothing, and I'm not talking about gray stuff, if there's a debate, we'll talk about it in the context of the amendment, but this is absolutely nakaradno at the beginning. My well-intentioned proposal, Mr. President, to you, which is why I've been looking for an explanation before, to interrupt the session, to at least try to get a biography, to at least stand behind this proposal, but to try again, at the level of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the heads of MPs, to get out of this impasse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10077	Thank you. It was precisely my intention to try to get a constitutional court or a proposal from the Assembly that would not be disputed for any parliamentary group. Unfortunately, it didn't happen and it's not my fault. There's a legal vacuum, there's one possibility of arbitration. This is one of the ways judges can propose. The Constitutional Committee will, of course, discuss all these judges, and I hope that the Constitutional Committee will confirm the proposal of the candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court to be voted by the Assembly these days. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Nada Kolundžija and then MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10078	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be okay if we went back a little bit and made some sort of summary of what was the Parliament's effort to determine the joint proposals of 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. So, we've had, if I'm not mistaken, but surely more than seven meetings with the president of the assembly, the heads of Parliament clubs. We've been looking for some modals, even talking about the criteria of how to get to something that would be common candidates. As you know, we haven't been able to agree on a lot of things. What remains undeniable is that the parliamentary groups have the right to propose candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Some parliamentary groups have given up. So they didn't want to, and they were public, they informed the public, unequivocally, that they didn't want to participate. What has been done is that the parliamentary groups that wanted to participate in the proposal of the candidate of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for judges of the Constitutional Court have done so and these are the proposals that you have here. What turns out to be an obvious legal void in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly is who is the formal promoter, but it is really exactly the same as the MP right or wrong to be president of the Assembly or Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, it is a complete sign of equality between the two procedures, as neither body of the Assembly is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure to propose a candidate. One more thing to remind you, here the question is that this is the way that we actually run and choose political, or party judges, and as we propose members of the Republic Election Commission on the same principle, as we have proposed the State Auditing Institution on the same principle because we do not have established other principles and criteria when the Assembly is to propose someone, therefore, by the exact same principle we have come to the names of candidates and these are common candidates of parliamentary groups who wanted to participate in the running process. So, please, just so we have it as a fact and we don't ask those questions that we already know the answers to because all the parliamentary groups participated in the different phases of this process, some in some phases of this process were excluded from the process, which is their right and, of course, no one disputes it. I really ask you, since it has already been proposed, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a session, that we consider these proposals and stop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10079	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic and then MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the SRS did not participate in these talks, because if we had participated, the Assembly would not have received such a proposal as it had received. We just wouldn't let that happen. We would try to do so in a way that would ensure that the Constitutional Court judges are elected, if nothing else, with my minimum number of data for each of the proposed candidates, where MPs could in some way come to know the proposals of the National Assembly. Please take a look at this paper - name and name, and where it works. You know, when I break up my driver's ad, I take this job seriously. When he was born, ever since he got his driver's license, where he was driving, what he was driving, whether he was married, whether he had kids, an apartment, all that, because it's all some minimum prerequisites to get you a person who's responsible for doing a serious job. And you for the judge of the constitutional court, on one note, 10 names. Now let me explain why we didn't want to participate. Just because of what you said, Mrs. Kolundjia, from the pay phone, because it's a political trade, a deal. We're not just gonna do that. We're not going to get any institutions like this at all, and we're not going to get judges of the Constitutional Court in particular. You remember the past composition of the Constitutional Court judge and the way he worked. It'll go down in history, into anals. Constitutional Court President Slobodan Vučetic then scheduled an emergency session of the Constitutional Court and annulled the law on the assistance of Hague indictees, and he did not even enter into force. That's how you're gonna get the Constitutional Court. How much you really care about the Constitutional Court has shown this previous period. Look at the seven years we have the Constitutional Court, how much the Constitutional Court is doing: all maybe two and a half years, not two and a half years old. I wish he hadn't worked so hard. Look at the number of cases you have today in front of the Constitutional Court. I think there's a number of a thousand and some items waiting for this new Constitutional Court today. What do you mean, what's he gonna do? That's the problem you've been facing here all along, because you've gone the wrong way to get judges of the Constitutional Court. That's the problem. It is not for you to get highly professional, high moral persons, who will work in harmony with their knowledge, awareness and security, but rather get people who will work in political dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10081	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10082	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Article 98 again. I suggested, you didn't answer that, to interrupt the session so we could try to get out of this maze. I repeat once again, what is only possible in this situation, in keeping with the provisions of the Constitution, Article 172, paragraph 6, that judges of the Constitutional Court are elected among prominent lawyers. On the basis of this provision, my proposal, Mr. President, is for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to determine the criteria that would meet this constitutional standard. So what's a prominent lawyer? Because as the esteemed colleague said, there are several ways of interpreting legal norms, from those simpler languages, grammatical, logical, to those slightly more complicated terms or semantic, telelogical or targeted, and that clearly indicates this provision at least one word. I am responsibly saying that there is possibly one prominent lawyer here. And secondly, what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said, I think this should get into an anthology. I'm not going to tell you what anthology is. Mrs. Kolundjia, you've made a parallel between the Constitutional Court and the RIK. You are the president of the parliamentary club of the leading party in the ruling coalition. It is normal for RIK to be elected by party candidates, but it is completely abnormal for the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges to choose between party or party candidates. Yes, for the simple reason I am responsible for saying that you have prominent party officials on this list and it's a disaster. So, that the Constitutional Affairs Committee determines the criterion of what the lawyers are, that on the basis of these criteria, candidates who must not be party or party people are proposed, because here we choose the Constitutional Court, not the Court of Justice of this party or those parties. The relationship of power will change, which tomorrow will not be from my party judge. It's a shame and shame in front of the whole world. So in all the world, these must be the most prominent legal experts and must be moral cariatides, moral colossus. I don't see one here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10083	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10084	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court Act has come to the agenda of this assembly, and I am sure that all of you share my confidence that we have a very important point that, when it is finished and this law is supported in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and if the Assembly selects five judges from the list of 10 judges proposed by the President of the Republic some time ago, and on the other hand establishes a proposal of 10 candidates, and from that list of proposals, the President elects five judges of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the Constitution, Serbia will have a constitutional court established. After a year, when due to different circumstances, and primarily due to the lack of rules governing the way the Constitutional Court works, so after one year of non-functioning of the institution, the institution, a kind of judicial body which is not only concerned with individual legal acts, but rather with an assessment of the constitutionality of the law and the constitutionality and legality of the general legal acts of the lower legal force, Serbia will re-enter the order of the states that have a rounded legal system and which can in all instances carry out control as is our constitution, but also with standards and rules of the civilised world and established. Somehow I think that if not naturally, then some natural coincidence is that today, when Serbia initials an association and stabilisation agreement, in the National Assembly of the Republic is exactly this legal project, and that is certainly a sign that we step forward to edit our own, not only legal, but the entire system. This law on the Constitutional Court is, of course, based on the tradition of the constitutional judiciary that exists in our premises and at a time when there was a very different social system and political system here in Serbia and in the former Yugoslavia, there was a constitutional judiciary institution, and of course, after 1990 and after 2000, we have the Constitutional Court as one institution rooted in our legal and political tradition. This law on the Constitutional Court, of course, relying on and based on the new Constitution, has new institutions, and I am fully convinced that these new institutes will be a major improvement of protection, primarily citizens' rights, when it comes to fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights, which have been established by the Constitution of Serbia, but are also guaranteed primarily by the European Charter of Human Rights, but also by other international documents. So, in the shortest case, the Constitutional Court Act governs several large areas. The first area is, and there is something in this previous debate about this and any word, is a section that regulates the choice, appointment and termination of the office of the Constitutional Court judges. The second section only edits or norms the constitutional court. And if we had rules in the current regulations contained in this law, we wouldn't have gotten into this trouble if the Constitutional Court hadn't been in office for a year because the President of the Constitutional Court retired or had obtained the conditions to be retired. And on the other hand, there is no mechanism for the election of a new President of the Constitutional Court, and there is no procedural assumption that issues dealing with the Constitutional Court are being placed on the agenda and that many cases, which have indeed accumulated in the Constitutional Court over the past year, are being resolved one by one. So when this law is passed, we will have very clear rules governed by the law as to how any situation in which the legislator could have predicted, that any situation that could lead to the obstruction of the Constitutional Court's work in the future should be avoided. A very important area of this law and a very important chapter are what constitutes the essence, which are procedures, procedures that are being arranged before the Constitutional Court. Of course, procedures are primarily prescribed by the Constitution itself through the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, and here is the way these procedures begin, as they last, as they end. Despite the usual procedures, which primarily relate to the assessment of the constitutionality of the law and the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the sublegal legal acts, both the state administrations and the executive authorities, and the authorities of territorial autonomy and the authorities of local self-government, there are several other important procedures that are very precisely governed by this law. It's about new institutes, first of all. Under this law, it is governed by the way the Constitutional Court discusses and decides in proceedings that have been violated by the Constitution by the President of the Republic on the one hand, and the right of judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors to react to decisions made by the High Council of the Court and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on their resolution. So there is legal protection in this very important area. What represents one of the most important newspapers, one of the most important advances that we bring into our legal system, which is the institution of constitutional appeals. Serbian citizens, as soon as this law enters into force, will have the right and opportunity to address the Constitutional Court when they consider that one of their rights or some of the freedoms established by the Constitution has been violated, will be able to address the Constitutional Court and request protection in such a case, unless judicial protection is provided otherwise. We've talked about this together many times, in a state where there's no effective judicial protection, the government of a stronger law, and that state actually stops being a state step by step. Any institute that allows citizens to reach judicial protection is a strengthening of the rule of law, strengthening the stability of a democratic order, and therefore this institution's constitutional appeal is so important. However, in addition to these situations, when there is no other judicial protection, so the Constitutional Court appears as an instance that judges in individual legal cases, there is one very important case where citizens, at a time when court proceedings are under way, so before regular courts, whether they are criminal or civil proceedings, can be addressed to the Constitutional Court if they consider these proceedings to be simply too long. So, if they consider that their right to trial has been violated within a reasonable period of time. When this law comes into force, if most MPs in this assembly are defined for it, Serbia's legal system will be equipped with all the mechanisms that the European Court has, therefore, with all the mechanisms provided for in the European Charter of Human Rights, we will have as citizens the opportunity to address the Constitutional Court to provide us with protection if the trials in which we participate as citizens take too long. If there was this institute today, I think the Constitutional Court would have a significant number of cases to solve, and I think it would very much help that regular courts in our country judge more closely, be more efficient and have less trouble with the statute of limitations in criminal proceedings and with the length of the proceedings in litigation proceedings, in out-of-party proceedings and in executive proceedings as well. I'm also taking the opportunity to say more about this institute because it's the essential and greatest newspaper in this law and our legal system. In those cases where the Constitutional Court is indeed a violation of the right and freedom to which constitutional appeal is indicated when these proceedings are initiated, the Constitutional Court shall have the right to order the implementation of certain measures. Of course, these measures are not defined by law but a very wide area has been left to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will have the opportunity to order the enforcement of these measures, so that all these violations of rights and freedoms are removed from the legal order. Those citizens who carry out the adoption judgment under the constitutional appeal, therefore, when the Constitutional Court finds that according to the procedures they have initiated, there are rights and freedoms, they will be able, if they consider that they have suffered certain damage by improper or unlawful actions by state authorities, also, to have the right to seek compensation, first in one procedure which will be conducted before the Commission, whose formalisation under this law has the right to propose and the obligation of course of the Minister of Justice at a certain time after the entry into force of this law, and if it is not satisfied and if the procedure is not completed with an adequate satisfaction for the citizen, each will have the opportunity to initiate and proceedings in the ordinary litigation procedure to determine the damage in the ordinary court procedure. So these are essentially the most important newspapers and besides them I want to point out two or three other things that I think are very important. The procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law before the law is also a new institute. This, as a legally arranged set of rules, did not exist so far in our legal system. It turns out that there are cases where the National Assembly mostly adopts a law to make a dilemma about whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or not and the qualified majority of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have the right to have the time between the adoption of the law and the completion of the procedure in this assembly, which ends with the power of the Assembly to establish that the text of a certain content has been adopted and that it has won the parliamentary majority, there is a time between that time and the time when the President of the Republic of Slovenia declares the law and when it goes to the "Official Messenger" afterwards, and when it is published, therefore, in that time, the qualified majority of MPs have the right to ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether such law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. There is another procedure, it is a decision-making process to delay the entry into force of the decision of the Autonomous province, it is also an institute that is foreseen by the new Constitution, and I think that, although I suppose it will be a very exceptional situation, another procedure has been opened that will allow us to avoid any possible unconstitutional and illegality in decision-making and the authorities of the Autonomous Province. A very important provision also relates to those cases where the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the constitution, finds that confirmed international contracts, such as international contracts signed and received a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are not in accordance with the Constitution, there is the possibility that such a procedure could also be opened before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also has the right to determine whether such international agreements are in accordance with the Constitution and the general rules of international law, which are also binding in our legal order. There is a very clearly regulated way of showing legal consequences if the Constitutional Court finds that such an international contract does not comply with the Constitution. It ceases to apply in the way and by the rules that have been governed by the international contract itself and the general rules of international law. I think we all have a chance together to find the best possible text of the Constitutional Court law in an open debate, which I'm sure will be as content as ever in this assembly. Also, I believe that at the end of this debate we will come up with a very clear picture, a very clear idea of who the figures are best to be judges of the Constitutional Court. Serbia is on the verge of rounding its legal system by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia making these very important decisions. When I first said that it was a natural coincidence that today, when the accession and stabilisation agreement with the EU is initialled, we begin to discuss this very important item of the agenda, then I wanted to say that this is primarily important for us. It is important because of the citizens of Serbia, it is important because 250 MPs representing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we do not do these steps because we would like someone, not the European Union, not China, not Russia, or the United States, we are doing this because it is good for every citizen who lives in this country, and therefore I am sure that this assembly will pass this law and that we will take one big step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10085	Since the rapporteurs of the Legislative and the Justice Committee do not want a word, does the MP Vladan Batic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? Here you go. I am informing the members of the Constitutional Committee, given that there are many members of the Constitutional Committee - 25, that we will be working until 17:30 today, and at 17:30, there will be a session. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10086	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you've very sleazy announced this item of the agenda, and then you've linked that conjoined performance to paraphrasing the association and stabilisation agreement. Neither of us is for celebration, and each other's shame and shame, Mr. Minister. Why? Because this parliament exists for nine months, because according to the Constitutional Law, this should have been done by the end of the first regular session, because we don't have a Constitutional Court for a year, because Serbia has experienced this humiliation that as someone inconclusive, someone who doesn't trust paralyzes the pre-negotiation as the last in the region. Four years ago, Albania did, Mr Petrovic - Albania. New European Union countries have entered Schengen, the European Union has opened borders, Romanians, Bulgarians and all our neighbours are walking freely in Europe, and we are boasting that we have signed, or initialled an agreement. Well, that's to get us into a mouse hole and nobody to talk, because it's humiliation. But back to what's on the agenda. Therefore, this law, i.e. the draft law on the Constitutional Court, is lacking and I have already said it is difficult for amendments to lead to this being the Law on the Constitutional Court of a serious European country. He's missing in all three of his continents, about election and resolution, about the constitutional court's arrangement, not to mention the procedure before the Constitutional Court. There are also a few curiosities to be mentioned when the amendments are discussed. Mr. Minister, if this law had properly arranged the choice and resolution, perhaps it would have been an indication of how to make that choice and resolution now. No, it's simply prescribed from the Constitution and nothing more, so we're in this maze, and that's why we're in this dead end. Here, I ask you, will the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance be applied to the judges of the Constitutional Court, which provides for a general condition for the termination of the working relationship, the years of life and the length of the employment? It's completely undefined. I told you before, in the proposal of the President of the Republic, you have candidates who under that law and under these general conditions simply meet the conditions for retirement or will meet it in a few months. So it's completely unregulated and undefined, and that's why it's going to be a problem in the future. So, it's completely incomplete, but the procedure, there's a provision here in Article 8 that's really curiosity, and it's probably also going to get into the almanacs of such legal professions or legislative attempts. It is said that the questions of proceedings before the Constitutional Court which are not governed by this law are applied accordingly to the provisions of the relevant procedural laws. I mean, if it wasn't funny, it would be sad, this is tragic. Is that, Mr Petrovic, like the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the relevant procedural law? He can't write that in law. I wish you had called on the Law of Prosecution or the Law of Administrative Procedure, anyway. You have a set of procedural laws in this country and then a judge of the Constitutional Court will report to which procedural law he will act and decide. Really, really, really, really, really, really, really,
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10087	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MPs Slobodan Maras, Petar Jojic, Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10088	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry Mr. Dulic came out again. I really don't understand why they're ignoring the announcement of certain MPs in this room. I checked in about 30 minutes ago, far before Mr. Minister answered the word, after which Mr. Minister spoke, so Mr. Batic, and I really think it's incorrect. I answered because of Article 98(2). I really think it would be necessary to interrupt this session because, as I understand it, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because of the indeterminate nature of our Rules of Procedure, or Article 172(3), or who proposes these candidates, can provide us with a second list after its session. That's one thing. Then, Hope Kolundji, head of the DS parliamentary group, really said something that's very strange. She identified, according to Mr Batic, members of the Republic Election Commission with judges of the Constitutional Court. So there can absolutely be no equality for the simple reason why it really should be proposed by the parties, but the judges of the Constitutional Court don't. That's why we get a bill like this that we can really call political. You, Mr. Minister, have just said a lot of words of praise based on what we initialled today, an association and stabilisation agreement, but you didn't say that those with whom you initialled it a day or two earlier said that one of the basic remarks was an unreformed judiciary. I know you agree. I remember your slogan in the campaign 'cause life can't wait. We've been waiting three months for you to form a government. You missed the deadline during the first session to propose to the Constitutional Court judges and the Constitutional Court Act. It's been seven months now since you're the Minister of Justice. We can say that this is some first step, with us trying 20 and more amendments to fix the little bit of this law you've brought before us. I would add only if you had mentioned the province, i.e. the province and local authorities, or the province's statutes, etc. I think there's a very bad solution to the Constitutional Court law that you've put in place as a solution. We've submitted the amendments here, and we'll have more opportunities to talk about it. We can't say that in this way we have circled the Constitutional Court for the simple reason that we still don't have the Supreme Court of Cassation, which should propose five more judges. I think it's a big flaw and don't get too boasty, there's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10089	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, then the violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity - the presence of Mr Petrovic's Justice Minister - to ask a question and ask for an answer. Whether a law on the disciplinary responsibility of the holders of judicial functions will be proposed, i.e. Judge and Prosecutors, how is this foreseen in the countries of the European Union? As one of the most concrete examples in parallel, you have the German Law on Discipline Responsibility. If we had a law on the disciplinary responsibility of the holders of judicial functions, some judges would not be walking us and dealing with tourism but would do their job, of course to be rewarded appropriately and to be provided with their families, but to solve the cases of our citizens and to share justice under the Constitution and the law. Mr. Minister, according to my knowledge, the great damage paid to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the unfounded detention and detention of persons who are innocently deprived of freedom, was eventually dropped, and that in that case the state paid certain damages and that it still paid. I ask the question - how much did the Government of the Republic of Serbia pay out of the Republic budget to our citizens for unfounded detention in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007? These are issues concerning the functioning and independence of the judiciary, the efficiency of the judiciary and the economy of judicial authorities in the state of Serbia. You've almost assessed the situation in the judiciary, and you know there's a lot of problems in the judiciary. So I've asked you a question before and I believe I'm going to get an answer - will there be re-election under the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution? This is also a question of how significant, because judicial functions must be attended by people of profession, people of morality, people who will be effective and who will not deal with any other trade and interest other than the conduct of the proceedings and the debacle of justice. So these are questions and how significant and I see that you are in that direction, and I would pray in that direction that we get answers, and that finally the purification in the judiciary must come. If you have people who work in the judiciary, whose decisions in 50-60% are abolished and modified, the question arises: can such people be holders of judicial functions and can they share justice? (President: Thank you, Mr. Jojic. This is how the conditions for resolution are obtained because of intricacies and ineffectiveness, if there are no other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10091	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, three minutes on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to take the opportunity to inform the Minister; given that he told us that this law would circle around the justice system and that the judiciary would function etc. (probably when he went to paraphrase the Association Agreement and watched their courts there and the judiciary), to inform you, Minister, for three days now, your judiciary has been completely blocked. You've brought people, and I don't mean judges, prosecutors, but administrative staff, to the border of extreme misery, people strike, they don't have any basic working conditions, they don't have any salaries, and you're paraphrasing accession agreements. Mr. Minister, first in your house, take care, first in the judiciary, raise those people's wages, their salaries are ridiculous. Get them tables and computers. You know the computer's made up, they're still working on typewriters in many courts. Get them basic working conditions, then tell them. After all, these laptops that you planned for the MPs, divide them into courts, they will thank you. Mr. Minister, 55,000 cases are in the District Court, they're buried. The law on litigation is wrong, and that's the basic brake, and here we've shown you when the Law on litigation is passed that it's not going to work and that it's going to be the law for the policy. The law on criminal proceedings is also wrong. I don't know if you or your predecessor have suggested that prosecutors are being investigated, and you don't have the essential conditions to apply the Code of Criminal Procedure: no space, no conditions, no personnel. Your courts are camped, and you're paraphrasing accession agreements, and by the time the accession agreement is signed, there will be plenty more waters for the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10093	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Vladan Vukicevic, after which the word is authorised by the representative of the SRS, MP Zoran Krasic, then the MP of the people, Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law on the Constitutional Court, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Sitting here listening to the MPs of the peoples, I must honestly say that I am as a MP of the people simply bewildered. I believe the citizens of Serbia are even more confused. For days and months, it has been said here that the Republic of Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court, that it cannot live as a state because there is no Constitutional Court, that we should make a Constitutional Court, that we should pass this law, and suddenly there is a bill on the Constitutional Court, the choice of judges, and, before the main debate began, it is now beginning at once after the Rules of Procedure to report and criticise everything and everything. If as an MP I have the right to be confused because I can't understand that something we've been looking for for months and we haven't been, we were right, we should have a Constitutional Court, we should know who we're supposed to complain about any constitutional disobedience or disrespect of the Constitution, and now suddenly something's happened and we're criticizing it in the beginning. What do we really want? It's a basic question for us to bring and choose these judges. I'm sure there are a lot of judges in Serbia, but these 10 that are proposed should be an honor to each and every one of them to be on this list. And of course, out of those 10, a democratic one will be chosen five, so the question is, who is asking and who is proposing these people? They propose parties and propose a majority. It's no big deal. But he chooses the Assembly. The honor of all those people on the list is that they're on that list. It is simply amazing that the opposition is seeking, demanding for months, criticising something that does not exist, and when most put it as a proposal for consideration, there is already some criticism in advance; moreover, who is there, who suggested it - it is less important. It's important that people are proposed, it's up to us to choose these people, it's up to us to control tomorrow how these people will work, and I think these people will work in accordance with the Constitution and according to the law. Why do we, as evil women, judge someone in advance how and what will they do? We need to choose the Constitutional Court, have a Constitutional Court and, yes, what was a criticism that does not exist, exists, and that we have someone to complain to, if constitutionality is not respected in this country. (President: Thank you, Mr. Vucicevic.) I thank Mr. Chairman, just one more sentence. So I can't understand that everything that's positive in the beginning needs to be criticized and devalued. In this way, we devalue ourselves, devalue our existence, devalue our authority and authority of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10095	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10096	My colleague Vukicevic, you were just changing clothes, and that's good for you, it's gray, yesterday in the City Assembly was darker, so you've just changed, since yesterday you're a different person. Yesterday you were an opposition in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, which I do not dispute, because we are there, too, only a much larger opposition to Stevanović. All day long you held the position of failed Stevanović and that handful around him, as well as the representatives of the SRS, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it does not work well, which does not respect the Constitution, which does not respect the law and you have acted in accordance with your opposition law. Yesterday, a question was raised in the Kragujevac City Assembly, which is current for the Kragujevac public. Here, to get to know both the Serbian public and the MPs, it is a matter of possible abuse in the construction of a two-way project in Kragujevac. We have the Lepenica River, where the city is celebrated. Of course she's not who she used to be anymore. Unfortunately, the city does not care much about citizens for other projects. People don't have basic conditions for life, and the city government has decided to build two bridges. The old stone bridge, which leads to the entrance to Topolivnica, i.e. in the flag, will be supported by another one that goes next to it. A colleague, Vukevic, presented yesterday the reasons he was looking for, justifiably suspected that the mayor of Stevanovic, one hand here, another hand there, and his associates, were doing all sorts of things with the citizens' budget. Then, to defend himself, just like Dulic, to take responsibility off himself, because he realized he was wrong, Stevanovic suggested that the polling committee be formed, to examine all these facts, because you provided that information and suggested that each political party go out with one candidate. You, as a man who knows the Rules of Procedure well about the work of the City Assembly, but obviously you do not know this about the work of the Serbian Parliament, said you will or will not participate. Where's your logic, colleague Vukevic? For one survey committee, which is due to examine the malversion that exists or does not exist, Veroljuba Stevanovic, you say it is necessary or you claim, the legitimacy of all political parties, and when we are here in the Serbian Constitutional Court of Serbia Assembly asking for the committee to pass it, you say -- we are evil, we are like this, we abuse it, everything bothers us. If anyone wants us to have a constitutional court, it's the SRS. Because according to our disputes, he had no one to solve, after all, for the mistreatment and abuse of mayors in the city where we live. Then don't pretend to be something you're not, Mr. Vukevic. When you know that you are the opposition in one place, remain consistent and allow the people who are, and we are the largest opposition and future power in the Republic of Serbia, to use our right. Finally, the president of the assembly admitted, despite all the help that various legal experts tried to give him here, that he had made a mistake and that it had to go through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that's why he scheduled him in 17.30 hours. You have unnecessarily responded, and that's why I had to react because you're showing double arches and you're a man who doesn't respect basic democratic principles. Let the opposition do his job here, and we will be there in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, as an opposition to doing a job that we did very successfully yesterday in bringing down Stevanovic and his criminal clicks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10097	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's MP Verica Radet, and then by Vladan Vukicevic. Please specify only a member of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10098	Rule 104, if I have to quote it, go back and get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10099	There's no need. Let me just give you some time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10100	Thank you very much. I'm surprised by Mr. Vukevic's comment. You say, colleague, that opposition MPs have been complaining for months that we don't have a constitutional court, and now that we're suggesting something like that, they're rebelling again. This is just amazing. Of course, we have commented on the daily fact, and now, right now, Serbia is in an unconstitutional state, and at this point in time, you have failed to fulfil the obligations you had under the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. But I don't understand what that means -- you asked us to have a Constitutional Court, you asked for the Constitutional Court Act, and now you're just some MPs, you're even asking it to be in accordance with the law, according to the Constitution. Well, Mr. Vucicevic, just because we don't have a constitutional court and we don't have judges of the constitutional court doesn't mean anyone can come to mind and say, "Here, I'm telling you, from today we have a constitutional court, here's the constitutional judge, who's for, come on, faster, press the green buttons and the opposition must be satisfied." We didn't ask for any law and we didn't ask for any names for judges of the Constitutional Court. We know the importance of the Constitutional Court, we know perfectly what is the function of every society and state of the Constitutional Court and what law on the Constitutional Court should be passed by parliament. I really appreciate you, colleague Vukicevic, and I would like you to say that you guarantee for each of these people, because we don't know who they are, that they meet the conditions. There have been objections here that some are already retired or they will soon be. That you tell us their biography, that you tell us what they deserve to be proposed by MP Oliver Dulic, or maybe you have about 10, and you're a folk MP, if Oliver Dulic can, and you can, too, any MP can propose some of his ten. You know, if we insist on form, only when the debate starts, then we'll talk about the quality of these candidates. So far, we're talking about a form that you haven't fulfilled, and we'll essentially talk about when it's on the agenda. You see, I don't appreciate Boris Tadic, I don't appreciate his work either, but what he sent to the MPs looks like a proposal. His candidates, of course, and we're going to talk about them, have both biography and consent to accept that they're doing this. He says - I believe the proposed candidates possess professional and personal qualities... (President: Time.) I thank you... based on which I can perform the function to which I proposed them. This is a formal proposal that's fine, so we'll essentially talk when the agenda comes to an end. You can't go over your knees like little Perica -- this is still a parliament, my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10101	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Vladan Vukicevic, and then by MP Bosko Ristic. I didn't see, you'll be after Mr. Ristic. Please specify which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10102	Article 103. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteeming my esteemed colleague, Kragujevchanka Natasa Jovanovic, it is true that I changed the suit I wore yesterday and I'm really sorry that she didn't have time to change her wardrobe yesterday. I didn't even notice it, and I wouldn't notice it today, that's her problem. I absolutely agree that the Constitutional Affairs Committee should be in session. It's not at all controversial and it's one procedure that needs to be followed. I want to say that the proposed candidates, you know, have certain qualities when they're proposed. In the protection of these people, and believe me, I don't know, I think it's unfair that the ten people that are here, we're devalued at the very beginning. We as the Republic Assembly, as MPs, have the right to decide for someone to vote or not to vote. We can pronounce five judges of the Constitutional Court, and we can not vote them, so of course they will have to be elected at another procedure, at another interval, by these judges, and whether or not it matters. So I want to say in general that it's not right that we have a critical basis for something that is desirable, necessary and correct in the beginning. That's the point. You know, it's the easiest thing to go out as an opposition to criticize. It is true that I am in the Kraguje's parliament of opposition, I criticise, but I criticise with absolute arguments and everything I said yesterday, as Natasa Jovanovic said of the two-way, I did. For the next session, I will bring valid documentation that everything I said is true and that I promise the vice-president of the republic's parliament, Natashi Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10103	The People's MP Bosko Ristic has the word, so the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, and Natasa Jovanovic, the People's MP for the presentation of Mr Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10104	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I am advocating Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says MPs can only talk about what's the subject and what's on the agenda. I would like to remind you that here the issue is the Constitutional Court Act, and again, I remind you, it is an independent and independent state body that is not in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia, and since there are misunderstandings about the position and essence of this institution, I would like to point to Article 143. The constitution, which says there are the following kinds of courts, and the highest court in the Republic of Serbia is the Supreme Cassation Court. I also want to point out to those who do not understand the provisions of Articles 166 and 167. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Constitutional Court is just resolving the conflict of jurisdiction between courts and other state bodies, shows that the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, if we are well-intentioned in the discussion, if we really want this country to be based on the rule of law, to really be this legal state, then it is necessary to have a constitutional court and a law that regulates the procedure and everything that is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. I would especially like to point out two things that are extremely important to the citizens of Serbia. First of all, it is the introduction of a constitutional appeal and the procedure under the constitutional appeal, which guarantees Serbian citizens that, when the judicial protection of their rights is not secured, the Constitutional Court can react in the situation as well. And even in a situation where regular courts, therefore not the Constitutional Court, but regular courts, do not do their job effectively enough, citizens have the right to timely justice and decisions within a reasonable period of time. I agree with Mr Momo Markovic, who says there are a large number of pending cases in courts, and that is true, and Serbian citizens do have many objections to the situation in the judiciary. We must, in accordance with the Constitution, resolve this situation in a way that this public function, a judicial function is performed by people who are not compromised, people who know their job, who will do these public powers fairly and with dignity. Another newspaper I want to point out is protecting the rights of citizens in electoral disputes. By establishing a Constitutional Court that has the authority to resolve electoral disputes, we will no longer be able to have many citizens on the streets of Serbia who, dissatisfied with the work of election commissions, have no opportunity to exercise their rights in a regular court procedure. If such rights have been violated, if there is a violation of electoral law in Serbia, there will now be an independent body that will, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, protect their electoral rights. As the elections approach us, I believe it is correct of all participants in these future elections to support the creation and establishment of such an institution, which will provide constitutional and legal certainty for citizens in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10105	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, then the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and then the authorised representative of the SRS Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I am surprised by the fact that the chairman, Radojko Obradovic, did not react to the kind of exposure Mr Vukevic had, which I must say, below each level. You, Mr. Vucicevic, can boast about the number of suits you will change, but you have proved here for a moment that you have proved to everyone in this room and to all those who watch the transmission that the suit does not make a man, and it certainly does not make a gentleman and gentleman, because if you were at least a minimum of something like that, you would certainly not say something like that to anyone in this assembly, and certainly not a lady like Natasa Jovanovic. The second thing, as far as the argument that you made regarding the Constitutional Court is concerned, I must admit that it is about as adequate to you as this unfortunate comment you made. I can't understand that anyone who's seriously involved in politics can say, well, so far you've criticised us for not having a Constitutional Court, and now the proposal has arrived, is none, and I don't even know who these people are on the list, but let's pick anyone and have anyone to complain to. There's people, so let them try. They're too serious institutions to let anyone try. I can't suggest people who have met the conditions for retirement or are prior to meeting the pension conditions, because then we're sure that in a few months or half a year we'll get back into a situation that we don't have a Constitutional Court. Is that what you want, and we've heard that there are more than a thousand items in the procedure, so it still takes people who will have both the expertise and the strength to carry it out and to deal with a large number of cases waiting to enter the procedure. If we accept this, and we in the SRS certainly cannot and will not do it, let it be anyone, just to complain, we will return to that situation we had while there was such a court, if it can be called a Constitutional Court at all, and again it will be what the people said - the Constitutional Court is complaining as deaf whispers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10107	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radet, and after that, I'm giving a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10108	Mr. Obradovic, I know that you are really correct when you chair the National Assembly, it is commendable, but you still have to take care of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague named Vukicevic here said that he reported in accordance with Article 103. Rules of Procedure, that's what my colleague Bosko Ristic said. Let me remind you that Article 103. The Rules of Procedure say the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. It's the first attitude, not to read the second and third points of view that I don't take the time. If the People's Messenger appears in the Rules of Procedure, there is no theme, there is no question of what the subject is until the Messenger comes out and says what it is he wants to talk about. No one, neither you nor any of the fellow Members of the people, can now tell me what the subject is I'm talking about. When it starts on the agenda, then warn the Rules of Procedure, although the position of the SRS is that no one should be warned at that time, because every MP knows what to say and what to say is, in any case, appropriate to his constituents. I volunteered under Article 104, which speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly in the first position. It was really amazing comments to me, I had no intention of answering and not answering after my colleague Ristic, I answered exclusively for the comments of my colleague Vukevic, but I was surprised by what my colleague Ristic said as a lawyer here, my people, the elections are approaching, and we have to have a Constitutional Court. And what it means is that these years, as long as we didn't have a constitutional court because there was no choice, we didn't need a constitutional court. Or the period when Bosko Ristic was also in power, when we didn't have a constitutional court for two years, and we even had elections in that period. So the Constitutional Court should not be due to elections, not because of this party or that party, but because the state is not a legal complete state if it does not have a constitutional court. It's something I guess we shouldn't be discussing, but I'm surprised some MPs of the ruling coalition don't know at all, they really don't know what's on the agenda, and I don't understand how you can vote so blindly. A colleague, Vucevic, says why we are here now rebelling over these 10 names, proposed by Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic. He says, we only pick five, so we pick five. You have no idea, Mr. Vukevic. Read the Constitution. We do not choose any of the 10 proposed by Oliver Dulic, or the Assembly. We are establishing a proposal of 10 Assembly candidates, and five of them are elected by the President of the Republic. Come on, read the Constitution, at least so much, when you're going out to show something smart besides a nice suit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10109	After the break, we'll keep working. [[After break – 16.50.]] We can continue our work after the break. I ask the MPs to enter the O.R. to begin our work. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Goran Rakovac. If not, then MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. MPs and MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina express satisfaction that at last the most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia has decided to discuss a very important item of the agenda -- constitutional court law. On this occasion, we would also like to express our disappointment over the fact that we have entered the second year of non-functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We all know that the lack of such an important institution is a source of possible very unfavourable consequences for the state of Serbia. We, in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, believe that the responsible are certainly representatives of the ruling coalition, who have failed to agree on the text of the law for months, and thus there has been an extension of agony related to the non-functioning of the Constitutional Court. For weeks, MPs, and the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and other political parties were expecting news from the Republika Srpska government's session, but Thursday came from Germany's street constantly the same news, none of the law. Finally, after half a year of neglect, fighting, inability to bring the text into line, he was finally adopted. The law saw the light of day. For this kind of behavior, government members deserve the worst grade, just because 912 unsolved cases are in the Constitutional Court, and 311 cases have arrived this year. Imagine how much among these requirements is the real, real need to seek constitutional protection before the Constitutional Court. I'm sure it's a lot. The Social Democrats League MPs are the opposition party, opposition to this government, but of course we will not reject all government proposals. We feel the law is necessary and must be passed. The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina welcomes and prescribes the procedure under the constitutional appeal, which represents the possibility of protecting human and minority rights in the event of a violation of the right by an individual legal act or the action of a state body or organisations. Representatives of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers and accepts our two amendments, counterparts Aleksandra Jerkov and myself, will certainly vote for this bill, I repeat, it needs this society. Namely, we have submitted two amendments. In Article 11 following the first article, we propose that Jerkov and my smallness add a new position, which would read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Autonomous Province Assembly, which concerns a candidate for a judge who must be from the territory of autonomous provinces." In Article 99. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, within the framework of election rights of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, states that they elect and dismiss judges of the Constitutional Court. This proposal by Parliamentarian Jerkov and my little ones does not challenge the right of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to choose and to resolve the judges of the Constitutional Court, but rather allows it to do so to the best possible extent in co-operation with the competent institutions of the Autonomous provinces. We have proposed an amendment to add a new position to Article 108 after Article 1 which would read: "In fulfilling its functions in the field of the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, the Constitutional Court particularly cooperates with citizens' protectors at all levels and national councils of national minorities." Citizens' protectors, by the nature of their functions, have the duty to protect and improve human rights, and as such are of paramount importance both for the Constitutional Court and for the other institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The same applies to national councils of national minorities. Once again, it is very good that the law was found in the procedure, it is not good that we did not discuss it in June, July, September or October, and that is very bad for the state of Serbia, and I say that MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will support this proposal, of course, when we hear the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10112	The word has been authorised by Liberal Democratic Party representative National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, regardless of the praises of the Constitutional Court Bill, which Mr. Minister has just made, I don't know what they are based on, the fact is that there is yet another political law, empty and full of inconsistencies. The goal of its adoption is obviously to create another body with powerful powers, which will either be an obedient tool in the hands of the government or will not work at all. Of course, I'll make this argument. First, I'm going to make some general remarks, and later I'm going to make fundamental remarks, member by member, concerning the bill. The principle of constitutionality, as the basic principle of the functioning of the modern state, requires the legislator to strictly comply with the standards of the Constitution in its regular legislative activity. This implies strict treatment of all state bodies under the provisions of the Constitution and of all other sources of constitutional law, including the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution. What's the situation with us? The highest state authorities, along with a constant violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, are now doing so in relation to the adoption of the Constitutional Court law and the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. Article 9. The Constitutional Law lays down, as an obligation, the adoption of a law on the Constitutional Court and the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court no later than the end of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. The Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly began, and the Constitutional Court Law has not yet been passed, nor have the Constitutional Court Judges been appointed. Then why are the laws and these sources of constitutional law if they are violated without sanctions by the highest state authorities? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 172, stipulates that one third, or five judges of the Constitutional Court, appoints the Supreme Cassation Court at a general session. Serbia's judicial system still lacks technical, organisational, and human resources to be organised under the provisions of the Constitution. To remind you, that is why amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure have been made, and that is not valid, because it is not applicable. This means that in the near future one-third of the Constitutional Court, due to the inability to establish the Supreme Cassation Court, will not be appointed. The Constitutional Court function will be carried out by the dismal body appointed by the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. The Constitutional Law, however, provides for such possibility, Article 9(2), or that the Constitutional Court will be deemed to be constitutional if two-thirds of the judges are appointed. Such a solution, however, deviates from the principle of legal certainty, integrity and essence, undermining the form by leaving broad possibilities for the court to paralyse and disabling its functioning. This points to gaps and bad solutions in the Constitutional Law itself, and the current government does not give such a law, which gives the possibility to postpone constitutional obligations indefinitely, is unable to respect. Now I'd like to say something about fundamental objections, so the very measure of the Constitutional Court law. First of all, Article 4 reads: ''Any person may request that he be given insight into the case files and allowed to copy the file, in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance. ''Stab 2. reads: ''Inspecting the case files and copying the file will not be allowed if there are reasons for public exclusion and in other cases, in accordance with the law. '"What does that mean? This means that persons, or parties that are in accordance with this article, can be excluded, or can be denied access to the files. This means that the Constitutional Court, later on, will see why he is the tool of the almighty government, can simply, if he doesn't like it, tell the parties involved in the dispute - because of these and these reasons you have no right and cannot have insight into the files. It provides broad opportunities for terrible abuses. Next, Article 8. This article shall refer to other procedural laws concerning the matter of proceedings before the Constitutional Court which are not governed by this law, but shall not specify which laws they are. In other countries, the procedure before the Constitutional Court is very detailed. Our Constitutional Court, by the letter of this bill that we have before us, will allow it, in accordance with its current mood, to choose procedural rules from a multitude of laws that have a procedural character. What does that mean? This means that the Constitutional Court will be able to determine from case to case which procedural law will be used in the proceedings. Since, in our case, the lawyers know that there is no predetermined law, procedures can really be applied from case to case, so according to their own opinion. It again opens up wide possibilities for abuses. Furthermore, in section two - selection, appointment and termination of the office of judges, the way and procedure of appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court has not been elaborated. On the contrary, the appointment procedure of judges only treats Article 11, only in paragraph 1, in which it is found that the Constitutional Court has 15 members. Paragraph 2 and 3 concerns the judge's oaths. Here one option is given inadmissible in law, i.e. a lower legal act refers to a higher legal act. Instead of working on what is in the higher legal act, this law simply refers to the Constitution with a single sentence in Article 11. With this gap, the proposed law excludes certain functioning of the Constitutional Court and the appointment of new judges in the event of the termination of the term of office of appointed judges. This was one of the basic problems of the constitutional court's functioning so far, which is simply not resolved by this bill. This bill, which we have before us, does not answer the question of how the proposed process and the composition of the list are regulated by authorised proposings. To remind you, in some countries that have more serious countries, there are lists and clear criteria for who can be the judge of the Constitutional Court, and only by these criteria, only those lists can make proposals to authorised applicants who will make a proposal in the process, and then select the judges of the Constitutional Court. That's not the case here at all. There are no regulated cases of possible obstruction and refusal to make a proposal by authorised proposings or elections by an authorised national election authority. What in that case? This bill of law does not foresee such a possibility at all. It is also not regulated to elect judges in the event that there is no President of the Republic, such as now, there is no Supreme Cassation Court, nor is legal procedure being given to resolve the legal vacuum. Whether or not there is no President of the Republic, and in this country this has happened, the acting President of the Republic will submit a proposal for the appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court. According to that legal logic, then that judicial authority currently playing the role of the Supreme Cassation Court could propose five more judges of the Constitutional Court, which is not the case, which is rightly unacceptable. Also, the reasons for the judge's resolution, Article 15, are not clear. What does a criminal act that makes it unworthy to perform the duties of the Constitutional Court judge? What are the criteria for determining what works they are? Whether these are criminal offences, whether these are offences for which adequate penalties are provided or from case to case will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, which the judge is worthy of, which is not worthy of the functions of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, there are no procedural rules for dispensing judges. According to what procedural rules is the judge's discharge carried out? Also, the judge to whom such proceedings will be taken... (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. So, the judge against whom such proceedings have been taken at all in this bill, nor has any legal act guaranteed the right to plead, nor has he the right to legal remedy. The same objections apply to Article 19 of this proposal, which provides for, but does not procedurally regulate the distance of the judge from office. What are the procedural rules on the basis of which the judge will be removed from office. Also, I will return to Article 16 — the existence of a conflict of interest. It's not clearly defined at all. The same article has not defined what a professor means in law school. Accordingly, we don't know who can be the judge of the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you, at law schools, both economists and politicians are handing over. Shall we allow, in accordance with the provisions of this article, which gives us no detailed explanation, that someone who is a graduate economist from primary education be a judge of the Constitutional Court or a politician? On the other hand, in the schools of political science, there are professors who are excellent lawyers, and there is no possibility of such excellent lawyers being appointed judges of the Constitutional Court. Next, section four, trial before the Constitutional Court. Let's do a little bit of Article 36 item 1 point 4. Paragraph 1 of point 4 of this Article gives the right inadmissible possibility - that the act initiating or initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court shall be rejected after the start of the procedure, or ''when there are no other assumptions set out in the law. '"In the second year of law school, it is a rule that when entered into the measure act can be rejected, not rejected. The rejection shall only be applied in the absence of procedural assumptions. This member is not talking about procedural assumptions anywhere. Furthermore, Article 45 puts the Constitution above the power of international contracts, but I would not be too concerned with it because it is one of the nakaradic characteristics of the Constitution itself. It also states in the same article that the Constitutional Court finds that the statute of autonomous province or a unit of local self-government or another general act is not in accordance with the law, or that at the time of validity it was not in accordance with the law. This allows for political abuses because the province's statutes can be abolished because of disagreement with any law passed by the National Assembly, which does not necessarily refer to a substance regulated by the statute. We've tried to correct it with an amendment, and we hope that our amendment will be adopted. Furthermore, Article 50 provides that the Constitutional Court may initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general act by a majority of two-thirds of the total number of members. It's phenomenal, which the Constitutional Court can initiate on its own. But in the present situation when the U.S. Constitutional Court is formed because of the lack of the Supreme Cassation Court, I was just talking about it, which means that this procedure can only be initiated by consensus of all appointed judges. As a result, only one appointed judge can paralyze the court's work and obstruct it. That's inadmissible. Next, Article 80. He deserves a special analysis. He says: "The Constitutional Court decides to prohibit the work of a political party, union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities on the basis of a proposal from the government, a republican public prosecutor or a body responsible for enrolment in the register of political parties, trade union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities. The proposal cites reasons and evidence that requires a ban on the work of a political party, a union organisation of the association of citizens or a religious community. ''The question arises where is the minimum protection of the rights of the party or the organisation against which the proceedings have been initiated? If we remind ourselves that this procedure can also be initiated by a public prosecutor, and the public prosecutor is appointed to the Government's proposal, therefore, behind the scenes again, we see one almighty government, which can, by its means, exert pressure on the Public Prosecutor, and then the Constitutional Court itself, because of the character and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, that any political party or other organisation that does not like the Government is abolished without more serious consequences. Furthermore, part of the law that regulates the procedure under the constitutional appeal is Article 80 to Article 92, with this structure and way of functioning of the Constitutional Court is practically unfulfilled. Because, let's remind ourselves, this bill suggests that the Constitutional Court decides exclusively in the tide, so the question is, what if the Constitutional Court is covered by constitutional complaints that they simply won't be able to decide on in the tide? The Constitutional Court can therefore be overcrowded and overcrowded with constitutional complaints, and because of the decision-making method, it simply will not be able to respond to its purpose, or to what is provided for by this bill. As one of the most important regrets, I would also point out the absolute lack of application of deadlines and constitutional disputes. This extends the practice that has been the main anomaly of the constitutional court's functioning so far. On some important issues raised before the Constitutional Court, it is a previous practice, the court simply did not declare itself because it was not bound by the deadlines. To remind, for example, the procedure for banning the Party of Democratic Action, which was launched in 1992, has not yet been completed, and then the issue of the conflict of jurisdiction of the National Bank and the Trade Court that the Constitutional Court has never resolved, and is not resolved just because there are no binding deadlines. The constitutional court bill also does not provide for adequate deadlines, which means that there is once again the possibility that disputes before the Constitutional Court will suddenly be extended, and those who do not like the government will never be resolved. Of course, another very important issue, the issue of enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court, that is Article 104(2), which puts enforcement in the government's competence, which is determined by a special solution to the Constitutional Court. This shortens the right of the Constitutional Court to establish its own way of enforcement and the right to exercise its decisions in certain cases. Finally, the question arises, according to the fact that we have an antinomic constitution, that the Constitutional Court bill is hollow, so someone needs to interpret everything in those provisions, which is why it is not intended for the Constitutional Court to play an interpretative role. For, let us remind, when the Constitution is as it is, or an antinomic, it is one of the main features of this Constitution, the Constitutional Court must have the authority to interpret inconsistency and inconsistency in the Constitution. Finally, I think that time allows me to look back at a few things the minister said, he was talking about making a big promotion to new institutions. Based on everything I've said, I don't really recognize these big promotions and these new institutions. He was talking about very clear rules, about disabling obstruction, and right now I've explained how it's very easy to obstruct. Finally, I would add that the basic feature of this bill is inaccuracy, and Mr. Minister spoke of precise provisions. I would like to remind you just one more remark from Mr. Minister, that the Constitutional Court is dealing with matters of legality and constitutionality of the general laws and general acts of the lower rank. Then I don't know what constitutional appeal is, because a constitutional appeal can only be filed against an individual act. So either the minister didn't read carefully or it was something else. In the end, I would add that, I have so much time, the LDP has submitted more than 30 amendments. Regardless of what my esteemed colleague Batic said "what is born of a coat of arms, time does not correct", it is our attempt to at least a little lessen the radical content of this empty law, and therefore I ask Mr. Minister to pay attention, he and the appropriate assembly bodies, consider our amendments and, if possible, adopt them, because it is really necessary for the Constitutional Court to function as-so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10114	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic, and followed by the mandated representative of the SPS, MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's a good thing that the bill of this law has finally come, at least according to that people's -- better anything than nothing, even if it's this far and narrow. (President: Mr Baticu, which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 226. We'll have the Constitutional Court, but something I'd like to ask for, more than the Minister of Finance, but also from the Minister of Justice, is a situation that is happening today in courts and judicial authorities. They've been on strike for three days. The picture is completely sad. Meanwhile, from the European Commission, messages are coming in that the situation in Serbia's judiciary is catastrophic. The unions are announcing a continuation of the boycott of the work. They're keeping it at some level now, I guess by analogy with other unions, a minimal process of work, so it's just what's about temporary measures, detention cases, and pre-arranged insights. They're announcing a complete blockade. That means a step to complete anarchy and to total chaos. The situation is absolutely alarming. I know the minister doesn't have a magic wand, because I was in that position, but at least it's fair to say and I expect that, Mr. Minister, from you -- what did you inherit from your predecessor, how many million euros in debt from the Justice Department to the judicial authorities? Is that a 10m-euro number? I was a minister before him. There's not a single euro debt left. We recovered the debt we found from around 10 million marks from Dragoljub Jankovic. It's fair to tell the truth, regardless of the coalition partners - where's the money? The employees of the judiciary really live in poor and poor conditions, at the level of social assistance, and I'm afraid that this situation can continue, and I'm afraid that this situation can become dramatic. As far as I got the information, I'm building up, in three days before, no single dinar came into the court cab budget. As far as I'm aware, and Mr. Minister, you'll allow me to be informed of the nature of the work I do, and don't be so ignoring to treat the whole story because I've seen it in several courts in Serbia, where they stand in the halls all day long. I don't know if it's insignificant, minimal, I don't think so. Every day these three days I've been to the Palace of Justice, full of halls... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Batic. )......................................................................................................... finishing... employees and I really urge you to at least say what can expect us to do on that plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10116	The word has the minister of justice, Mr Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10117	Thank you very much. As far as I can see, there's very little time left, and I'm not going to answer in detail to an authorised representative of the LDP, because that's what I should do with all the other MPs. But there's only one thing I want to make clear here, maybe we didn't understand each other about the general and individual legal acts. I didn't realize it was a misunderstanding topic. Of course, the constitutional appeal is filed only against individual legal acts and it is a major step and a major improvement in our legal system, that the Constitutional Court, and never until now has had such authority, will begin to resolve and according to the constitutional appeal that citizens have the right to endure when they consider that they have been violated by some of their rights or freedoms established by the Constitution, including the right to ask the Constitutional Court for protection if they hold that their right to be tried within a reasonable period. These are the rights that citizens of Serbia now have, as a member of the Council of Europe, right before the Council of Europe to launch. Of course it is quite possible that we will have different situations in application. There may be a large number of cases, and I expect, of course, that, provided this law is passed, the Constitutional Court will regulate the way in which it will act in these proceedings, how the reporting judges will deal with these affairs, the way the Constitutional Court decides is governed by the Constitution itself, and there was not too much opportunity for any other solution to this law. What Mr Batic was talking about, I can accept anything as a remark, except to ignore the protest. That's not true. I've had union representatives in the last two or three weeks three meetings and three meetings in various formats. On Friday, we had a meeting of Minister Rasim Ljajic, Finance Minister Cvetkovic, today was also a meeting where Minister Cvetkovic, Minister Milan Markovic for State Administration, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, so we have communication all the time. At those intervals between ministerial assistants, my assistants from the justice ministry, assistants from other ministries also hold communication. I share, Mr. Batic, your belief that the profits in the administration are small and I don't see that there is anyone reasonable to say otherwise, but profits or salaries in the administration are even lower. There's no place in the administration that's better paid than the place in the judicial administration. I'm talking about classical management, not agencies, the National Bank or anything else. Earnings in the judicial administration are higher in certain positions, even up to 20%, there are also those systematicised places that have the same income as in the administration. So there's no one in the state administration who's better paid than the one who does the same kind of work in the judicial administration. That's the facts. The union, one of the two representative unions, has made a request for these profits to be increased by 100%. I wish those profits could be increased five times, but I can't support any demands that can't be made. I'm gonna take this opportunity to make things completely clear. It is not possible to increase any single dinar earnings for people working in the judicial administration without increasing profits for everyone in the state administration. The finance minister has put forward a position that this is not possible under these circumstances and these circumstances. Like you here in the National Assembly, as well as the entire executive power, and the entire administration, and the courts, including the courts, and the prosecutors, and the deputy prosecutors, we all receive here profits from the money paid by the citizens of Serbia by paying taxes. In order to increase earnings: we need to introduce some new taxes or increase existing taxes, or Serbia enters very serious inflation by increasing the profits that the budget users will have. I'm ready, I'm going to say it one more time, and I said it here to the public's representatives, and I'm ready to support every request that's feasible and sustainable. I will not, as justice minister, support any request that will lead Serbian citizens to have inflation, which is inadmissible, because we have all been through the evil of this species once. I'd like to see who we can reduce budget allocations to increase on the other side. The budget law will be here very soon before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is an opportunity for us to discuss this issue completely and thoroughly. I have called on several representatives of both representative unions to enter the task force actively, which I established as justice minister and which needs to determine how many employees it takes to be in Serbia so that we have an effective and independent judiciary. I also think of the holders of judicial functions, therefore, the judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, but also those who are employed in the judicial administration. I call them here in front of you, too, once again, to all together as serious people to discuss the issue, to see if an adequate number of 13,800 employees and more than that, as far as there are now in the judicial administration, whether there should be more or, as the first analysis says, that number should be lower. But I have no need, no desire to determine for myself or to establish a task force in which there are no employees from the judicial administration. I think we all have a chance together to determine how many employees it takes to work an effective judiciary. Everything else is regulated by regulations. I think it's a good thing we all stick to the law and no one gets in trouble for breaking the law. The laws must be respected, otherwise we will not have the opportunity to live in a regulated and decent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-07-0.u10118	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The Constitutional Affairs Committee is scheduled for 17:30. That's what we do today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
