ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13220	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 159 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 81 or 82 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work at 12 o'clock. [[After break, 12.05]] Please continue your work. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Lasslo Varga and Pastor Ballint. We continue our work, and before we continue to work, I'd like to give one notice, which is about the problem we had last night. I spoke with government representatives today, including Minister Samardzic, and during the day, there will be a meeting of Minister Samardzic and other ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of political parties and citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, to agree on a way to organise the political life of Serbs in Kosovo in the future, to be part of a common state strategy and, at least at this difficult moment, not to argue about human resources problems, to try to find something that would be a common position on the issue. I ask the MPs to understand this and continue the work, to discuss the amendments, and of course, according to this agreement and the results that will be in the future, you will have an adequate reaction. I suggest we continue our work. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SERBIA LAW (resumption in particular) We stopped yesterday at the amendment to Article 14 which was submitted by the National MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Then we move on to the next amendment. Excuse me, please, the word has a People's MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many open questions in this bill and I ask the Minister to try to answer some of these questions. Unfortunately, the minister did not find it appropriate to tell us any more about this proposal, so it remains unclear whether he is familiar with this and how much he knows and understands all this. The impression is that this was not written by the Ministry, but that it came from the side. I want to ask a few more questions and I'd like to ask if I can get some answers, because I'm interested in making things clear here. We've tried our amendments to fix this as much as possible. With an apology, I'll go back a little bit, I'm not going to talk specifically about Article 14, because we still have a few dilemmas that aren't explained. Article 5 states that the reserve composition of the Army is an active and passive reserve. I ask the question, what is an active reserve, because in the same article, it is said that the active reserve is being filled out on the basis of the contract? Does this mean that we'll probably make, by reputation of the American army, contracts with people who have previously served a military term and that they'll be obliged to engage in some military operations when they need it? I don't know if the minister will answer this. If you want, I'll hang up and wait for the answer, and if you won't, based on my assumptions, I'll move on. Shall I continue? Okay. Given that there are four infantry brigades in Serbia, according to my information, all of western Serbia has run out of soldiers, from Drina to Kraljev there are no soldiers, explain that now the reserver from Bajina Basta, where do I come from, who has a desire and intention to be a reserve, to sign this contract of yours? How are you going to include him in some unit? Where will his schedule be, in the King? There are enough reserves in the King to fill out the planned reserve composition of the brigade that is located there. Gentlemen, this isn't good, the army is totally destroying. The second question I'm opening here is to explain to us what is the area of responsibility of one infantry brigade in the defense, what length of the front in the defense can one infantry brigade cover? According to information I have, one squad can cover a maximum mile and a half of fronts in defense, or one brigade can cover four and a half kilometers. With four brigades, we cannot cover the border towards Kosovo, from Presevo to Raska, and we no longer have any soldiers in Serbia at our disposal. If that's wise, then let's all vote for it and accept that we have such an army of Serbia. This is nothing new, because in 2001, counterintelligence officers came to this information, but then America prepared it and it came to our army as information on what was coming to us, and then the state and military top, primarily, the state, accepted it. At that time, the most able Serbian officers retired, retired colonels in the 40th year of their lives, people who had a huge experience, who had been through wars, people who were at the best of years to return to their country what was invested in them through education. Colonel at 40, generals at 47, or 48, that's it. Further, in Art. Six and seven were given definitions of members of the army, then military faces, then professional military faces. It's so badly defined that it's just ridiculous. If you're making something, keep some form, at least make it formally correct. In Article 6(4), for the first time, this law mentions multinational operations. What's that? Where was that mentioned earlier in the law, what kind of operations are these? Obviously, all that seems to be here is that Serbia provides twenty thousand soldiers who will be enough to, in a few shifts, be sent to various hotspots to represent American interests. This was all created there, in America, in NATO, and you just carry out their orders. I'm asking you to answer these questions, if you know. If you don't know, say, we don't know, we've been ordered to do it, and we all know where we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13223	Thank you. Here you go, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole problem that was in attendance last night, and also this morning, came about a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the change of the district and co-ordinators in Kosovo and Metohija. I would just like to introduce you that the KIM coordinator is the president of the municipality appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of an agreement reached several years ago, except for an SRS that did not want to participate, all other parties had co-ordinators and district chiefs, even the Democratic Party, in conditions when it was the opposition political party, because of the single state policy in Kosovo and Metohija and because DS was a member of the State Negotiation Team. When there was a change in government in the Republic of Serbia, following these parliamentary elections, it was the idea to change the co-ordinators and the heads of the district. Vuko Antonijevic, president of the Coordination Centre, told us that there is an agreement in the government that these issues are not currently being discussed, as the status of Kosovo and Metohija is being resolved, and that the SPS will be consulted and informed of any further moves. As you know, the Socialist Party of Serbia has had a constructive approach to state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. We voted in favour of all resolutions and declarations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We even agreed yesterday on the question I considered excessive – do we want to participate in the organisation of a rally that is preparing for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, I don't know when, whether 17 or 18 December of this year. We find it absolutely inappropriate that three or four days before December 10th, the government of the Republic of Serbia, at its session yesterday, should make a change between the co-ordinator and the head of the district in Kosovo and Metohija, without agreeing with the political parties involved. If anyone wants a unique approach, I think they've chosen the wrong moment. This is not a question of government or opposition, or we don't care if one of us is in "government", this is about whether we want a constructive approach or whether we want to tell everyone now that it is more important for us to have several coordinators than the single Kosovo and Metohija policy. The President of Parliament knows that the SPS also had a constructive approach, as well as other opposition parties, and in the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without obstructing its discussions that choice, and also now, without disturbing the deadlines you set for calling elections and passing laws under the Constitutional Law, or the Law implementing the Constitution. Accordingly, we consider this an incorrect and inappropriate move, which is a blow to the state unity needed around Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I find it very incorrect that even someone found it appropriate to leave several of our coordinators without consulting the SPS. Which one of you is in charge of personnel policy within the SPS? I called the government's senior party, DS and DSS last night. No one was in the middle of what was going on. It seems that it has passed without anyone knowing what you voted for in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you are not even satisfied within your own parties. We don't care about that. We're looking for a constructive approach to all this and correctness. We've been looking for it today, and yesterday we did, because we want an explanation from the government. I must inform you that by this moment, no one has informed us of what the Serbian government has actually decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13225	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13226	I am not sure whether all MPs of the ruling coalition know what the Serbian government has decided. Anyway, the deal was just a little while ago, and that's why I called. What the President of Parliament just said earlier, I think is a broad formulation of what was the agreement. There was an agreement, on a proposal from the ruling parties, and I accepted it on behalf of the SPS, that during today's SAA talks with the government's competent ministries and representatives on how to overcome this situation and how to re-examine these decisions, given the need for unity around Kosovo and Metohija. You said, and I agree, that meetings and other parties are being held, we don't mind, but it was an agreement, you participated, you spoke to the competent ministers and the government representatives – to conduct the SPS talks and consultations with the government representatives during the day, on how to overcome the problems that have arisen here. If that's the deal, we'll take part in it. If it isn't, then we'll do our job. I call, however, on these moments to show a high sense of understanding of the weight of the political moment we are in. None of us care more about anyone's chair than the higher interests that each of us has at the moment. In that sense, I ask you, President, it seems to me that the agreement was as I said it was accepted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13227	I thank you, Mr. Dacic. Meanwhile, I also contacted Minister Samardzic. Today, you will have a meeting with the ministry's representatives, who are in charge of solving this problem. As I said earlier, I would like this problem to be resolved and I would like all the problems that exist in other institutions in the future, rather than in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be solved. It is clear to me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has looked at our political situation and that here it intersects everything that is political movements and, of course, this is where the opposition can express its dissension with certain things, but I ask you, really, that here in the National Assembly, we do what our business is, and that is to do on the agenda points. (Ivica Dacic, from the place: Is that what we agreed? That's what we agreed on. You have today at half three meetings with Minister Samardzic and other government ministers and I hope that the fruits of this agreement will be satisfactory for you and satisfying all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much. The speech is attended by MP Milan Avramovic, then by MPs Misa Petronijevic and Vlado Sekulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, amendment to Article 14, submitted by Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, has been well explained by the previous speaker. I just want to pull one parallel and let you know that these laws and articles of yours are going to match some of the things that are already in practice, generally, in Serbia, and also in Belgrade. Article 14(1) states: "A military person is prohibited from attending political parties' meetings in uniform and any political activity other than the use of active voting rights." The amendment proposes the following: "The professional military person and soldier, student and student of the military school institution and person at the second professional training for officers and officers cannot be a member of the political party. A soldier at military service, regardless of political belongings, cannot be involved politically during military service.' Now, as for soldiers, so does officers and officers, that they cannot be politically active and cannot participate in any political stands, especially in uniforms. Mr. Minister, let me remind you something. Less than 20 days ago, in the City Assembly, Mrs. Sonja Licht organized the stands, with the theme "The Partnership for Peace". In that stands, the main guest was State Secretary for Defence, or your deputy now, as is already called, Zoran Jeftic. He's brought with him a face that's unbalanced, which I don't know what his name is yet. Do these regulations apply before this law or, when this law is passed, will they apply afterwards? Because, if it's okay, that's true, generally, for all the officers in the Army, for the soldiers, for the officers and for the officers. You can't send one single person to one such stands to give information to an NGO, which can very easily abuse that information. In order to explain that our army can infiltrate some "partnership for peace", or that the Army is already ready, or preparing for something like that, a certain number of facts and data must be presented – about what the military has, what condition it is, what is its battleground, etc. It was, of course, an open - minded tribune, where present city councils could ask questions. On the basis of these questions, we could hear answers from the Secretary of State for Defence and Security, Mr. Zoran Jeftic, who may not have been available to the public. So, this member, absolutely, cuts off what you already practice in your work, in your ministry, and it would be good to respect Mr. Misa Petronivic's amendment, so that these things don't happen again. With the best intention, proposed amendment to this Article 14, I draw your attention to a practice that was, not to be repeated, because it makes no sense that an NGO, working against the interests of this country, has information that is not, at all, good for the public. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13229	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Misa Petronijevic, and let the MP Vlado Sekulić be prepared. As I understand it, the amendment has already been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13230	My reason for going out here is for your opening debate today, the way you opened the debate. I apologize, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, but the way you opened the debate today confuses me. I felt the need to go out and ask. The amendment I made to article 14, we talked last night, is about depolitizing the military. We said that the words "and the soldier" are too high, as it is said about the need for the professional military not to be politically engaged, not to be members of political parties, etc. We questioned the word "and the soldier" because it may not be given to a soldier who is serving the military time to be a member of the political party. That'd be funny. Last night I was informed by the minister, even understood that the minister had come out for a pay phone and said the amendment of the Security and Defence Committee was accepted and that the words "and the soldier" were deleted. If that's the case, it satisfies our request. But the way you opened it, it makes me ask, did the minister adopt a proposal from the Security and Defence Committee? The Committee's amendment is equal to any other amendment. If the Committee has given the amendment and the minister has accepted it, then there's no need for us to talk any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13231	I'm sorry, that's what happened, Mr. Petronievich. Simply, in preparation for the session, there are two separate amendments, one of which was yours, which is being discussed, and the other one was next, and that's the amendment of the Defence and Security Committee which, right now, contains the things that you wanted to point here. If we agree, let's move on to the next amendment. So that's the amendment. Article 14 of the amendment is based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. (Vlado Sekulić, from the post: I had something to say about Article 14.) Amendment accepted. Since the proposer of the amendment has withdrawn the amendment, because it has been accepted, let's move on to the next one, no problem. Here, Mr. Sekuli, you'll speak next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment to Article 15. In order not to read the whole article now 15, it is actually about taking an oath, which reads: "I (name and last name), swear my honour to protect and defend the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SPS adds the words "and life", which means that it would read: 'I (name and last name), swear by my honor and life that I will protect and defend the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia'. Of course, it is clear to me and the SPS MPs that such an amendment can be disputed and disputed from the aspect of those fundamental and basic human rights guaranteed, of which the right to life is basic and unimpeached, and as stated in the Constitution. We know that it is very difficult to find a syntagma that would strengthen the concept of honor and make a single oath, in this purpose, worthy of our tradition, of our history and of what we call true patriotism. However, the question arises, what does it mean, in the circumstances in which Serbia is living today, the word or the term "honor"? On the other hand, the question is whether life, as a fundamental and guaranteed right of man, is being threatened or challenged by the use of that word in this oath. No matter how much the amendment probably won't be accepted and the government refused it, she didn't accept it, we of the SPS want to draw attention to the importance of the oath contained, because it is essential, it was and will remain. Our history is full of light examples of the heroic defence of Serbia and its people, certainly, and Yugoslavia in the earlier period. Many soldiers, fighters, then civilians, often gave this to their most elemental and basic – life, in the defense of the country, in the defense of their people. If we start with Kosovo heroes, then it is said: "Better pure cheek without head, but without cheek with her on the shoulder". Heiduk Veljko, defending the province of Negoti, said, "I give life, I do not give Krajina." We remember what Stevan Siljelic did on the Chegra. I would also remind you of Major Gavrilovic's heroic defense with his heroes, in 1915, when he turned around, it wasn't long, just to remind you, and I said: "Heroes, exactly at three o'clock, the enemy should be crushed by your strong stormers, blown up by your bombs and bayonets. The face of Belgrade, our capital, must be bright. Soldiers, heroes, the Supreme Command has wiped out our regiment from a number of states. Our regiment was sacrificed for the honor of Belgrade and the country. So you don't have to worry about your lives. They don't exist anymore. So go to glory, for king and country. Long live the king, lived Belgrade." Mr. Minister, it doesn't matter that king. It's a great honor to the king at the time we had a monarchy. It's not the King or the President of the Republic that matters here. Of course, this word, which is famous and remains written in history, is imperialally speaking, and may conflict with what is an aspect of the preservation or evaluation of life as a guaranteed and elemental right of man, but here it is figuratively said. No one has other people's lives, surely, so neither can the state. If we swear with honor that we will defend our country, while making sure that life is a fundamental right, then we will sacrifice that honor and, if we think like this, literally think, at some point, we will always replace the honor of life. We will honor and remain alive, and the defense of the earth, let another do so. Again, let me take this second thought. So, when someone swears to life, it doesn't mean it's imperative they give up their life. The defense does not mean giving life, nor does it mean that one who does not swear to life in battle will not die. I don't want to open up a big debate here right now, it's a philosophical question, understanding these terms, and we can talk about it by tomorrow, and neither am I on behalf of the SPS, after-and-after defending a position like this, simply, I want to draw attention to these issues and the system of values that used to be in force and the system of values that apply today. Of course, I would mention, as a sacred example of heroic defense and an example of heroic death, in 1991, Major Milan Tepic and soldiers from the village of Donja Leskovce near Valjev, 19-year-old Stojadin Mirkovic, who knowingly and voluntarily, defending their position, their beliefs and their homeland, gave their lives. So here I mentioned a system of values through the light examples of our history in which it is woven, so people's consciousness is the need to defend the country, their loved ones and their children, and these are the greatest values for each individual, so at least it should be, and I believe that for most of them it is – country, children, families, and that at some point life can be given. What's the other system of values? A system in which honor is a relative concept, which seems to me to be naked and hurt, because we have a situation to swear by honor and swear by many. The word is also given when the minister's oath is taken. I don't want to get into who has the honor, who doesn't, but it's worth the attention of this question. In past conflicts and wars, from 1991 to 2000, and even later, in Kosovo, and today and today, it happens, we have had the loss of lives of many people, young soldiers, police officers, and civilians. What can we say, as MPs, if we don't talk about this in this way, or the possibility that their lives, which are given to defend the country, should be respected. By the way, we're coming to the conclusion that this word should be entered into this oath. If we ignore it, or don't respect it, then their families, who are left without them, can understand that their struggle was in vain, their sacrifice was in vain, in vain to give their lives, and then come to the question – who will be ready tomorrow, the day after that, to give their lives for the defense of the country?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13233	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Before we move on to the amendment to Article 18, I would like to give some information, as the MPs ask me. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, it's not working. In accordance with Article 85, we're going to be working today until the end of this agenda, and on Monday, we're going to continue, at 10 o'clock. Today we'll have a break from 15 to 16 hours. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13234	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, there are many members of this law who are unsettled, who mean nothing, who transfer competences and competences from one institution to another, who bring misunderstandings, but is a member of 18 of the basic members who confuse. It is the powers of the minister, as Article 18 of point 7 says - the minister sets up, advances and dissuades Serbian Army officers in the Serbian Army in the rank of major, colonel and colonel and decides on the termination of their service, on a proposal from the Chief of Staff. The position of the 2nd member says -- the defence minister may be authorised by the Chief of Staff to carry out the operations referred to in item 1 of point 7 of this article, relating to the appointment, promotion, resolution, decision on the termination of the Serbian Army officer's service in Serbia's Army, in the rank of Major and Lieutenant Colonel. If we take the Constitution as the highest legal act, according to it, under the supremation system, all other laws in this country, but also in all countries, must be harmonised, because you will not change the Constitution unless some law is in accordance with the Constitution, but you will change that law. The Constitution is a framework through which all laws must go through and what is lurking outside that framework must be removed. Article 112 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 2, says -- the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military and sets up, advances and dissipates the officers of the Serbian Army. If we compare this Article 112 now The constitution with Article 18 of this Law turns out that the President of the Republic is promoting to the rank of supporter, lieutenant and, possibly, captain, and then the defence minister, who by the logic of things should be lower than the president, if for no other reason why the President of the Republic chooses citizens directly, in the elections, and the defence minister sets up coalitions, regardless of how the coalition is tempered, to advance into more acts. Therefore, the responsibility of the president of the state in this case is far greater. Here we come to the situation that the President of the Republic will promote the deputy, lieutenant, captain, and the Major, Colonel, Colonel, will promote and resolve the defence minister. The defence minister is hereby entitled to transfer his jurisdiction, which, otherwise, does not exist under the Constitution, to the Chief of Staff. Why didn't you add that the Chief of Staff could be on command to transfer that authority? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as an indecipherable member of this law. I have submitted an amendment to delete Section 2, so that at least a little bit this law can be applied the next day, when we adopt it, and you will adopt it, because you have a majority, 126 MP cards, so you can also say that the country is fourth. We had opportunities recently, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to prove unproven things, but you were in the majority and you voted for it. When there's a law on foreign affairs in particular, we're going to refer you to these inconclusive and inconclusive things. The defence minister may have the authority of the Chief of Staff, I asked for an amendment to delete it, to carry out the operations referred to in item 1 of point 7 of this article, relating to the appointment, promotion, resolution and decision on the termination of the service of the Serbian Army officer, etc. In response to why the amendment has not been adopted, it is said – the amendment is not accepted given that Article 112(2) of the amendment has been adopted. The Constitution found that the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, lays down, promotes and relieves officers. That's exactly what I'm asking for with my amendment. Where does that say, by what act does the President of the Republic have this authority that the Constitution gives him? Can he, at all, transfer such authority to someone lower than himself, to the Secretary of Defense? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this amendment has not been accepted, not because it will not fix the law, on the contrary, would very much fix it, but because it came from the ranks of the MPs of the SRS. I mean, unless it's something else, and I'm afraid it is, not only did the coalition start shooting stitches, but, given what Mr. Krasic said yesterday in his presentation, I think they started shooting stitches inside the DS. To remind you, the president of the Republic is from the DS, the defence minister from the DS, unless the minister has moved to another party, but I don't believe it, because Dragisa Djokovic, he has 52 membership cards, I only know that there is no SPS and SRS. Therefore, it seems to me that here now comes the kidnapping of jurisdiction, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, to the flagrant violation of Article 112. The Constitution. I therefore suggest that in the voting day, you take account of the amendment to Article 18. The bill, to adopt the amendment, to erase what is otherwise inapplicable, because I fear that the president of Serbia will advance one to the rank of the major, the minister will improve it, because he has to prove that it is bigger than the president of Serbia, if it takes over his responsibilities, why not be bigger, immediately in the rank of the colonel, this one in the rank of the colonel, and the minister will relieve him and send him into retirement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is too serious a subject to be played by accepting or not accepting amendments that de facto improve the bill. I think it's high time you stopped thinking partyly when you're making laws, because these laws will remain still, you'll be up to the first election where you are, and then the people will be chasing you from there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13235	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'm reporting under Rule 62. Rules of Procedure. Namely, Mr. Dulic, there's a scandal going on in the National Assembly on the first floor right now. Zoran Shami, chairman of the Education Committee, chaires a committee that has no quorum. At least eight members of the Committee should attend for the session to begin. The first item of the agenda is to consider the 2008 draft budget and the items relating to Serbia's education, and the second item is the report and information on current strikes in Serbian schools, because the government has no ear to listen to what educational workers are asking for and do not find an agreement, which is why children are in such a situation as well as employees in education. I ask you to respond immediately, Mr. Dulic, because it has never happened that the board is in session and that it is conversing with the minister. There is Minister Loncar present, who arrived half an hour ago in the Assembly building. The MPs of the SRS who, as you know, do not participate in the work until the quorum is secured, are outside the O.R., and I'm in the middle of a professorship. Mileta Poscurica reported that the scandal is happening, that the minister is inside, along with Zoran Shami and with six other members, to discuss the agenda points without having any legitimacy for work, since they have no quorum. Intervention, because we're getting into a situation where there's no power here and doing what anybody wants and what they want. This morning you saw, twice you delayed the session, that there were no of your coalition partners from G17, and even those from the DSS didn't stop to come to the session. Here's another MP who was in the O.R., and she's leaving. Mr. Dulic, this assembly is no longer like anything. Are we serious people going to do business, or are you going to warn this Zoran Shami that he can't do as he's used to in the Federal Assembly and that he's being arrogant? It is truly amazing that your colleagues are being humiliated in this way, regardless of which groups they are from. We Serbian radicals can't let that happen. We also have a proposal to supplement the agenda. It's something that happened two months ago in Kragujevac, in Kragujevac High. A budget review, a review of the State and the current situation report, a strike in education, no quorum, I think it's more than a scandal. So our MPs are outside the hall, they are patiently waiting, they are prepared to participate in the discussion, and so do everything, and you and Mrs. Kolundji, who is here as president of the largest party in the ruling coalition, warn Zoran Shami not to play with our patience, because it is invariably so. He tried that a few weeks ago, so he saw he couldn't. But now he says – how do we get the minister back? Mr. Shami, secure a quorum for work, so call Zoran Lonchar. This way we can't accept that this session even exists now and that it works, because there's no quorum there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13237	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, see what this is about. I've come to my senses. I thank Miss Jovanovic. We're moving on to the next amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13238	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I finished the amendment on Article 15, as a result of the talks with some MPs, I didn't hear that I was called about the article. 17, 18. By the way, it was my intention not to report for these members, but I thought I'd make a brief comment on the amendment to Article 17 and the amendment to Art. 18th and 19th. That's what I'm going to do now, because the essence and nature of these amendments is exactly the same. These members, or at least what is related to these amendments, are based on the Constitution, on Article 112. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically, on the second position of this member, which reads -- the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military and sets up, advances and dissuades Serbian Army officers. We have the case that, referring to the principle of co-ordination, which certainly exists in the military, despite such a constitutional provision claiming that the President of the Republic, in addition to commanding the military, is setting up, improving and resolving the officers of the Serbian Army, he is putting his authority down on the defence minister and on the Chief of Staff. In fact, the Secretary of Defense, what the President of the Republic has entrusted him, puts it down to the Chief of Staff. We have suggested that point 9a be added in Article 17, which reads: "It sets up, improves and resolves Serbian Army officers in the Serbian Army and decides on the termination of their service, on the proposal of the defence minister". In Article 18, point 7, would be deleted – the position, promotion and resolution of Serbian Army officers in the Serbian Army, in the rank of majors, colonels and colonels and decides on the termination of their service, on the proposal of the Chief of Staff. Here is what Mr Markovic of the SRS spoke of, in Article 18, where in the 2nd position of the defence minister may be authorised by the Chief of Staff, meaning, what the President of the Republic has transferred to him, he is now doing in connection with the promotion, resolution, etc. In Article 19, it was also proposed to delete point 2 where the Chief of Staff was given – to appoint, improve and resolve Serbian Army officers in the Serbian Army to act as captains and to decide on the termination of their service, on the proposal of the directly subordinated commander. So it's clear to us from the SPS that the President of the Republic, of course, can't do some, I say, less important, or smaller jobs, but also, that this promotion, which would be his signature, comes down, actually, just for signing. All of this is being prepared in one subordination chain and it is not so difficult for the President of the Republic to sign all of these which are promotions, appointments, resolutions, and has been prepared by the entire one system, in co-ordination by the Minister, down, through the Chief of Staff and other commanders. So here, the President of the Republic feels that he has more work to do than he needs at a given moment and therefore he puts it down to these lower subordinates, but in other cases, the same President of the Republic takes on more jobs than the Constitution assigns him. So, for example, the Constitution says, it is not about this law, that the President of the Republic puts ambassadors by order, and the law says, it decides on the government's proposal, although it does not say in the Constitution to decide. Now, he decides and takes over, so to himself, that what the government's proposal can decide both positively and negatively. There's no such thing as "decision" in the Constitution. He could only sign a proposal from the government, finally, and at the foreign ministry, and it comes down to one of its protocol duties, because the President of the Republic has a significant protocol function, not to take over more than he needs. I apologize for coming out of the Serbian Army Act with this example. I just wanted to make one parallel, so I hope you'll forgive me for what was my trip to another law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13239	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. Just one brief notice to the MPs. The public service has informed us that from 17 to 21 hours will be the transfer of the humanitarian tennis tournament, where our tennis stars play matches. All income goes to children from Kosovo. I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be postponed from 20.45 hours, so I'm asking you to understand. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, vice president of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13240	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 18 and 19. The bill is absolutely contrary to the Constitution, with a member of the Constitution referred to by the Government when he says he does not accept amendments, as Article 112 is paragraph 2. The constitution found that the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, is setting up, improving and resolving the officers of the Serbian Army, and we are calling on that member of the Constitution when we say that the defence minister cannot set up, resolve and advance, that the Chief of Staff cannot do so. It is the right and obligation of the President of the Republic. It's intolerable. He can get the proposal, but he has to set up, advance and resolve, because he is the President of the Republic and because he commands Serbia's Army. You're free of your advisors and consultants. The Secretary of Defense is setting up officers. Is it the civilian control of the military now, or is it the civilian command of Serbia's military? I keep warning you, the Secretary of Defense cannot command the Army. He can give equipment, the Ministry of Defense can carry out some kind of control of the implementation of some plans, but he can't interfere. This is a direct interference in command. If the minister decides where any of the officers are going to command, it's military command, and what do you need it for, Mr. Minister? You don't suppose you know all the elders in the Army, that you've been following their development since schooling, from going into the hull, to achieving the highest act you can have, you have it all in your brain, ministers, and you've been elected a month ago? I couldn't see it, not you. Yes, I am the Duke by name, which I would like you to do, in some liberating war, to reach the calling of the Duke. I'd like to congratulate you on that. I would never blame you for that. It is said here that the Chief of Staff, point 1, proposes a plan to develop and equip Serbia's Army. Now I'm interested, Mr. Minister, did the Chief of General Staff suggest that you purchase military equipment without a tender, or that the tender is not made by domestic producers, or that domestic producers cannot participate in the tender? I received a letter from Dragic, publicized as a company that robbed Serbia, Serbia's Army, in the end, it came down to the possibility that there was an opportunity to sell military equipment more expensive than necessary, and the company sent me evidence that the same equipment sold to Americans was more expensive. They even sent me evidence that now foreign equipment manufacturers, first of all, were amazed why they weren't offered to the domestic producer to participate in it, interested in whether they could, under the contract they made with you, produce in the company Dragic. I'm interested in who excludes domestic producers from equipping the Serbian Army? If we favored domestic producers, so we allowed 20% to be more expensive than foreign producers, who in Serbia's military procurement, which is the defence minister, that is the Democratic Party, introduces the principle that domestic producers can't even be notified? When are we going to find out, finally, the truth about Dragic, is it a company that works, does it work quality, does it work at the prices at which it is most acceptable for the Army of Serbia or not, or did it rob Serbia? And that indictment that was filed against them, I can see that even what they were in custody for, by order of the G17 plus, no longer stands in charge at all. So one day it must be clear that there are no ministries for certain parties or certain ministers to benefit from the procurement. One day it has to be public too. I'm not asking you to say what quality vests you want, which quality helmet, you have, even, in the offer they give you, again it's some public information, I'm just asking you to finally tell us when the supplies are done, it's not a military secret, and beans, and peas, and underpants, and toilet paper, and weapons, and ammunition, and equipment, that you put it nicely, in line, that we know who was calling, whether the tender was public or by invitation, who was elected in the tender, who was in the commission who chose the bidder, whether the domestic or foreign bidder, that everything was public. Then we can talk to you like people who care about our army. With this bill of law, you convince me that you want to command the Army. Don't take this job, Mr. Minister, a team before this job will soon be very delicate and it will most likely take a lot of professionalism to do the job. Don't let us dilettantes decide in this business what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. So we'll figure out what they're gonna do, but we don't want to get involved in how they're gonna do it, because we don't know that, we can just ruin it and mess it up. So, if Serbia needs defence, the Assembly will decide that we need a defence, and then the military will defend, neither the ministers nor the MPs will interfere, but if they call us, then give us the gun, we will go and do what they tell us. Now, that's a fundamental objection to these two members for which I fully understand what your goal is, but I don't see what the Army will get, what the defense will get, what it will get the officers that we're training for service in our army today. I was surprised and amazed by the statement by the commander of these military schools, who said – we have fully adapted the programme to civil society, so that our officers can immediately become employed in civil society. I'm sorry, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, we don't need officers who are going to be employed in civil society. We have law schools, technical colleges in civil society. We don't need military academys to build a profile of civil service professionals, just for the Army. If we don't need them, cancel the Military Academy. If you were to say West Point is training personnel to get a job in business, everyone in America would laugh at you. For business there are colleges, for the military there are colleges and studies, basics, highs, every living one. So look at the little curricula and the programs, we'll never raise our hands to fund military schools that prepare personnel for civilization. We don't need that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13241	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Tatomir Bakovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Tatomir Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 19(3). The proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, by proposing that article 3 of Article 19 of this law be deleted. Paragraph 3 of Article 19 of the Law reads: "The Chief of Staff may authorise the direct subjugation of an elder in the Serbian Army to carry out the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. "Point 4 of this member, together with seven more points of this member, is the original jurisdiction of the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army and reads: "The Chief of Staff shall appoint, advance and relieve the officers and professional soldiers and deploy civilians at the service in the Serbian Army and decide on the termination of their service." The explanation given in addition to this amendment reads: ''The jurisdiction referred to in point 4 of the second position of this Member of the law is the original jurisdiction of the Chief of Staff and should not be transferred to another body or individual. What is now wanted by the law of the third? In fact, Serbian Radical Party MPs note that, Mr Minister, in all the proposed laws that we have discussed today in this assembly, especially in one that regulates the election for the President of the Republic, unnecessary views are added. We think that these views are being put in place for that reason to find holes in the law when it suits you, because your mission in the Serbian Army is not to strengthen, modernise and perfect it, prepare it for what it needs to be in war and peace, but to completely incapacitate it, destroy it, and for that job you need a much bigger team. Besides you, Zdravka Ponoša and the President of the Republic, you need some other experts to destroy our army. We believe that you will not succeed because the people will not allow you, because in the upcoming elections they will elect Serbian Vice President Tomislav Nikolic as president of Serbia. Let's see what the government's explanation for this amendment is: 'Amendment is not accepted since Article 112 is Article 2. The constitution found that the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, lays down, improves and relieves the officers of the Serbian Army, resulting in the establishment, promotions and resolutions of officers subject to the regulation of the law. This law elaborates on the principles of co-ordination and one-year-olds based on relations in the service and is implemented in accordance with the law and acts of command. ''But let's look at what that Article 112 paragraph 2 reads. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the Army and sets up, advances and dissuades the officers of the Serbian Army." The reasoning given by the Serbian government on this amendment has little to do with this amendment, as the government's response states the original powers of the President of the Republic, and this is about the original powers of the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Serbia's Army. We note that through all the laws that have been proposed so far, and even the amendments, you are trying to favour the outgoing President of the Republic of Serbia, and we are not perfectly interested. I have already said that in the next election, the people will elect the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia. Since the Government has not given a proper explanation for this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I can conclude, Mr Minister, that you will now, on behalf of the Government, and the assembly majority in the voting day, accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13243	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13244	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when we look at Article 19, we understand the intentions of Article 18. It's a bill of law. So, not only does the minister want to command the military, although there are stories, I am not sure that the army has not served either, but he also wants the Chief of Staff to transfer those powers, so he says this way, Article 19 – the Chief of Staff sets up, advances and relieves Serbian Army officers in Serbia to the rank of captains, and decides on the termination of their service on the proposal of the directly subordinated commander. Why should the Chief of Staff assume the obligation of the President of the Republic under the Constitution? Are you gentlemen afraid of these results, these presidential choices? Mr. Minister, may I remind, Article 112? The 2nd position -- the president of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the Army, sets up, improves and resolves Serbian Army officers. What prompted you to take away from the president of the state, from the president of Serbia, jurisdiction? Even assuming you pass this law, that moment comes in collapsing, and that there is a Constitutional Court, as it is not, the Constitutional Court would have to put out of force these members of the law. Without these members, your law would be null and then you'd come back with some proposal to the National Assembly and crush the National Assembly three times to do the same job. Mr. Minister, I think it's high time to withdraw this bill, to clear it of inconsistency, illogicalness and nebulosis, to look at the Constitution in the meantime, because, as binding to the President of the Republic, it's also binding for every citizen of this country, to realize once that there are no laws above the Constitution, that all laws fall and must be incorporated into constitutional frameworks, and only then do you come up with a proposal that will solve the problem. I understand your haste, I understand that after 10, or 12, 15, 17 or 20, it depends on when these friends of yours, who sent us "merciful angels" in 1999, will decide to take 15% of our territory, will be different. I also know that statement of yours – we won't defend it with the army? And what are we going to defend her for, Mr. Minister? What will we defend Kosovo and Metohija if we do not defend it with the military? Are we going to threaten them? Are we going to curse them from the administrative border? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, an amendment tabled by MP Mr Bakovic, also clears what the ruling structure has called a bill of nebuloss, prepares the law that, eventually, it can be usable, applicable. Without it, this law will become either a dead letter on paper, or, Ministers, Chiefs of Staff and anyone who dares to implement members of this bill, and not in accordance with the Constitution, will put you in a position to violate the Constitution. Let me remind you, because of the violation of the Constitution, you're going to long-term prison. Since I'm the only one who's running for office, I'm afraid, Minister, that you'll have to come to me, and then, let me inform you, I'll prepare a single room for you so no one can disturb you and you'll be in a cold and dark place so you don't break down anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13245	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister assures us not to speak any further, he was just about to accept. If you wanted, Mr. Minister, to accept it, I'm talking about Mr. Bakovic's amendment, you would have done it, and now you're being irritated by Moma Markovic. Please don't. Mr. Minister, can I explain, so maybe after this, you'll say no more? I don't think it's personal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on Mr Tatomir Bakovic's amendment, my party colleague, which reads, "In Article 19, paragraph 3 is deleted." Mr. Bakovic explained this point 3 and I would like to rely on Article 19 and say that it is a little illogical that Articles 19, 2nd and 7 give authority to the Chief of Staff, as the Chief of Staff can lay down rules governing civil-military co-operation. What if the civilians, whoever they are, won't cooperate with the Army, what if the Chief of Staff doesn't comply with his regulations? The military has to respect them, and civilians don't have to, because it's not defined here, which is why he needs to regulate that civil-military co-operation. I'm telling you, it may happen that this civilian group is being gunned down for the personal solution of the General Staff, the Chief of Staff, and, simply, they don't want to cooperate with him. Then how are you going to get in a position to cooperate? I wanted to say that. 17, 18 and 19 give too much authority to the President of the Republic, too much authority to you, Minister, and too much authority to the Chief of Staff. If it were to be looked at by the party, and the military is not allowed to deal with the parties, the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, the defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, are from the DS. The chief may not be a member of the party, but he is recognizable by some concepts and touch points with DS. I'll start in a row, I think I have time, from article 17. President of the Republic, just to prove to you this chronology, Article 17 - President of the Republic commands the Army, but does not decide to use it. It is the work of the National Assembly, which declares war and emergency. He doesn't need to make decisions about using the Army. Not until after the National Assembly's decision, the president takes command. Like this, he can decide not to use the Army, based on how you gave him authority. In the Constitution, in the area of power of the Assembly, Article 99, see Article 5, which states that the Assembly decides on war and peace and declares war and emergency. You have given him too much authority here in Article 17(1) – he decides on the use of Serbia's Army, commands Serbia's military in peace and war. What if it's a threatened country and the president says, I'm not hiring an army? Now you'll get your turn, Mr. Minister, Article 18. I believe he will win, we believe that Mr. Nikolic will surely win; as soon as you know that, then there are no more secrets, since you have all the security agencies and secrets, you have good advisors, from Mr. Svetko Kovac and so on. I know your goal is to provoke me, but no, you gave this creamworth great. When you confess and you are aware that Tom Nikolic will win, there is no dilemma. We're radicals real, whoever the president is, must stick to the Constitution. Mr Tomislav Nikolic will certainly win, will be president of Serbia and will stick to the constitution, unlike your president and you. Here's your authority, you're being given too much authority. What makes you, as minister, adopt the plan of international military co-operation, because it is the work of the state, government and assembly, and now you are above all of us and now you are going to create international co-operation?- I'm sorry. In article 18 again – civil-military relations. It is constantly present that the Minister and Chief of Staff are doing so, and civil-military relations are governed by the Assembly, which makes laws, and not, as it says here, that you will bring regulations. In general, the Parliament and the Government were really skipped in relation to the Army, which are being violated, here, look at the Constitution, Art. 99, 123 and 140 versus the Army. Since you are, like this, shouting from the scene, Mr. Minister, why in this bill of law, and we know who wrote it to you, VBA, Svetko Kovac, Aleksandar Radic, it's this team that's here, Dragisic and this minister, the universal soldier Markovic, because everything around here, you keep using the term - The army will be on the mission? Why do you use foreign expressions all the time? Soldiers aren't missionaries, and it's supposed to be a mission. Soldiers are soldiers who carry out their duties, and missionaries are something else. I know you're obsessed with America and NATO, it's your right, I'm against it, but that's why you used it here, that's why Article 5 says - a professional composition trained and prepared to carry out additional missions in the country. So they're not missionaries, they're soldiers who carry out their duties. Now there's something else that's coming into my eyes. What does it mean, according to you, an active and passive reserve? An active and passive reserve, Mr. Sutanovac, it's the American, NATO gay population, so they're active, the others are passive, so now you're using the words "active and passive". It's some kind of gay NATO-American termology. Our reserve is neither active nor passive, our army is not missionary, but our army is a strictly Serbian army that protects the interests of Serbian citizens. From what you've imagined, our army will be interestingly neutral. It's really impossible for our army to be interestingly neutral. Our army must protect Serbia's integrity and sovereignty and cannot be neutral. Our army is biased by Serbia's interests. Any normal person who has read this concludes that our army must be interestingly neutral because it will eventually be engaged abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13247	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13248	Here, I'm done. There, perhaps, in Papua, Venezuela, where pro-American regimes are kept, they will be interestingly neutral, and in Serbia they will not. I would like you to explain this terminology – an active and passive reserve. I'm saying now it's a gay termology of America.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13249	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please. Professor, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic first appeared, and then you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13250	Mr. President, all of us, and you, especially the first among the equals, are obliged to guard the dignity of the National Assembly. You must warn everyone, all the MPs who receive from the post. You do it when it comes to MPs. But the scandal that happened at the moment, as my predecessor spoke, is inadmissible. The minister shakes his hands, fights with the speaker, throws, even vulgarly, uglyly. That can't be allowed. Mr. Minister, you are here to listen to the views and opinions of the MPs. We are the ones who will vote for what you call the law, for or against, and explain to us if something is not clear in the bill itself. You can't treat the MPs here as if they were subordinated to you in the Ministry. Mr. Minister, either act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or if you please at the door, these MPs of the SRS will certainly not tolerate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13251	Thank you. Here's a word from the People's Councilman, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13252	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hear there's been a misunderstanding here while we've been waiting upstairs for a session of the Education Committee to begin. I would like to announce immediately to the Assembly that the Committee was not maintained because it had no quorum, seven of the 15 members of the Committee were present. However, the present members of the Committee and some other MPs, Minister Loncar, gave brief information on the state of the matter with the strike of educational workers and several things related to the budget for education. The meeting will be held the second time, when we schedule it, and hopefully when we have a quorum. So there was no meeting, there was no discussion, so, of course, no results could have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13253	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13254	What you just said, Mr. Shami, is scandalous. You just admitted that you held a session without a quorum. The second item of the agenda was – Information from the Minister of Education on the strike of employees in education. You said the minister gave brief information -- that shortness was 45 minutes. Ask your colleague from another party, if you think Serbian radicals are exaggerating, and here, in the meantime, Prof. Pokurica, there is Mr Zivanovic, as they felt in the hallway, in the hall, when they know that there is a minister inside who is talking to you about the agenda point, and you are calling all the time, which is Professor. I'll hurry, which Petronievich, this one or that one: "Come on, get inside, we're missing another one. '"What's it look like? Resign, Mr. Shami. Your credibility has already been undermined as chairman of the Education Committee. This is happening. I don't know which time. Three months cannot come the point of which you have a proposal, or a request for an incident call, it is mild to say, with the abuse of the student parliament in Kragujeva's first high school. So, don't tell us that he's here, that's to get Loncar just like that, no matter, since he's the minister for everything, come on, come on, so let him talk a little bit about meeting you. Just because he met you and gave you information doesn't mean anything to Mileta Poscurici, or to Serbs Zivanovic, or to others who weren't there. What does that mean? Notify you? Now, you, Mr. Shami, come out, so 45 minutes talk about what he's been informing you about, so these people know. They were standing outside, they were in the hall, they were back in the O.R., the session wasn't held. The second item of the agenda was just that. So you held a session without a quorum. You did not vote on this, but that is precisely what – that the minister gives information on the state of education, on the strike of employees, without quorum, is at the very least an insolence and abuse of the position of the president of the Committee, which you have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13255	Thank you. Professor, let me just say that when a committee session is scheduled to begin working, it is necessary to establish the agenda. In order to establish the agenda, a quorum should exist. Since there was no quorum to determine the agenda, the Committee session was not held. Since it has not been maintained, no conclusion has been made. Since the minister was inside, you've talked about something, it can be understood that you've talked about anything. The session of the committee will be scheduled, and when there is a quorum, it will be held. It happened, there was nothing. I suggest that I... Here you go, Mr. Poscurica, and you, so let's finish this topic on the Education Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13256	Thank you. In fact, there was no session, of course, but under the questionnaire, there was a record to be adopted today. The minutes were made on 18.10.2007 with the same, held, irregular, session, which was the point – what is Chanak doing in schools? That record reads seven members of the Committee. So you shouldn't have gone with the record. This is now the record of a session, where the agenda was adopted, of course, untenable, but it comes as a session. What else does it say - that the people who sat there agreed to ask that question about one item of the agenda, about the second item of the agenda, about the third item of the agenda. So it's like it's being held, that's how it works. We haven't seen the answers today, because probably the minister thinks this is unserious; there was some session that didn't have a quorum, we agreed, we didn't vote to ask you that too. Who can ask me that? It's becoming manipulative and it's something that's alarming all over the story, it's becoming manipulative. There's not enough of you, let's talk about it now, and some record will come out of this, or it won't. It's a good one – a record. So it's as if the session was held, and, de facto, it couldn't be maintained, because the quorum was gone. We were present, waiting, according to our political views to make ruling parties quorum, working conditions. This topic is, in practice, the first one that was very important to us – to see what is going on in our secondary schools in "teachers' parliaments", which we presented when they were put into law, when we said they would be abused, and apparently they did. Somehow, now it's gone and it's no longer mentioned in today's conference. Today's conference was supposed to talk about the budget and the new problem – strike. So, there was simply one theme that was drawn, without waiting for the minister's answer. Why hasn't the minister responded since 18th? Yeah, we should've gotten the materials. If not, then at the session. Which at the session, rather than sooner - let me see the answer. So that opens up a lot of questions that we should have asked there today. So, the appeal is to take the ruling coalition seriously and make the quorum so that this committee can work, because there are many requests written by representatives of high and other schools, or they are asking to clarify certain problems that are vital. Some executives continue to exercise their will, as if high schools were their private schools, private schools. There are a lot of problems that the Committee needs to solve, to work, and it can't do it the way that it obviously started happening by momentum, to take it by momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13257	Come on, people, don't answer the Rules of Procedure again. Here, come on now, what's done is done. Here you go, Professor, so let's get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13258	The October 18th session was not held either. We would have realized today that we were even engaged in the adoption of the minutes. Of course, by adopting the minutes, we were not engaged, nor were we engaged in the agenda, Mrs Jovanovic, so, therefore, there are neither first nor second, nor do I know which agenda points. There was no quorum and the session wasn't even open. That, of course, does not mean that present MPs cannot speak to the minister. There's no ban here. Of course, the session should be held and, of course, MPs from the congregation’s majority should come to the session first. I accept the position, the political stance, in this case, of the SRS and the SPS, that they do not want to give the quorum. That's legitimate. The session was not held and will be held on the first next occasion. I don't see any reason for any grades, evaluations. I thank you for saying that I lost credibility. Maybe I am for Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13259	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I request an explanation, in accordance with the provisions of Article 226. Previously on "Article 27's analogy"... Mr. President, I'm asking you not to keep preaching why someone is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Two hours late was the beginning of this session. As DHSS MP, I'm not responsible for that. I have to leave at nine o'clock from Obrenovac to get here on time and then there's no session. MPs from the LDP Parliament Club are not responsible for this. Let's call things a real name again. Why isn't there a session of the Education Committee? Why isn't there a session of the Legislative Committee? Why isn't there a session of any committees? Because that's what the G17 MPs boycott. Let's tell the real truth. You argued within the ruling coalition, Dinkic again seeks some money, another fight over the loot, again for flea markets. Then don't blame us for that. What I was about to ask, I'm asking for an explanation from the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Djelic, wherever there is a scandal. He was in Brussels and he made an international scandal. First, Macedonia, with which we have good neighbourly relations, friendly relations, traditionally good relations, called the former Yugoslav republic. Our ambassador to Skopje was called by Macedonia's foreign minister, as a protest note was tabled by the Macedonian state. It's one of Mr. Djelic's sins. Another, even bigger, Mr Djelic said that during the action on the Sar Mountain and the Macedonian police's reckonings with Albanian extremists and criminals, an action titled "Mountain Storm", Serbian police also participated. Here, we have a sharp reaction from the Macedonian Interior Ministry, so what Djelic said in Brussels used Agim Cek to say that the Serbian intelligence service is behind armed formations in northern Macedonia. That's how the Deputy Prime Minister works. Don't send him anywhere. As soon as he says something, say something stupid. As he and Dinkic deceive citizens about these free actions, it will be, but by the end of 2010. Don't cut the donkey to the green grass. By the time the election's over, by the time the mandate's over, they'll be sharing actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13261	Thank you. Here you go, but I think we've discussed this committee. No problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13262	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today, in fact, it was up to the Committee on Education to find the issue of the SRS, just as it was written in the media on the training of high school students, or on their professional training in secondary schools. I think this is another big attack on those who strike today and demand an increase in their salaries. I'd like to devalue their work, actually. This is very important to say, from the beginning of the seven-year rule of the Dossmanian government in Serbia, as you can see, there has been erosion and morality and, probably, everything that exists today in Serbia, as is this "enlightenment mafia" that took hold of it and that occurred just in the time of your rule. The second thing I was going to say is, it's really about this part of the agenda. I would ask Mr. Minister if he has a number of conditions or an analysis of all the barracks in Serbia today, in what state they are, firstly, as objects, and are they ready today to receive these soldiers who will serve in these barracks. I'm talking about barracks in the Sabac municipality, which under no circumstances, infrastructure and other conditions, do not correspond to the purpose to which they should serve. Therefore, I would like the minister to respond immediately, or do you have the opportunity to send me an answer in eight days – do you have such a view of the facilities in which young people should live, that is, people who need to train and prepare to defend their country? Perhaps, Mr. Minister, you don't have, or you have a spare state, in which you will likely continue your life after all these events, and I remember well when, in one of the'vetemen's', you came in 2001, when you were on these parliamentary salaries. Now I'm watching you, how you're acting now, and how bold you are, and what your status is, or the status of the man who entered this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13263	Thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Bajatovic, Zeljko Vasiljevic and Milisav Petronijevic and MP Milosav Milickovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, then Vladan Batic. (Vladan Batic, from the post: I reported on the previous amendment. We concluded before we entered the debate. All right, we're done, Mr. Batic, and you'll get a word on this amendment. What's the problem? Here you go, Mr. Vasilevich. We're done. When Professor Shami arrived, before that, we concluded the debate on Mr Markovic's amendment. Okay, you'll get the word, no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I must say that we have not filed this amendment in order to deny any organization of officers, officers or such, but rather because we are not fully aware of what we will be dealing with. I have to admit, except in this place, nowhere in the law is any closer to explaining what all activities and methods of organization are, although you wrote it in this next attitude, that it will prescribe, a way of organizing, but it can be anything and too wide. I apologize, in Article 20, at the end of the text here, all it says is that the education of the subofficer's crust and the authority for its editing is proposed. I'll read you the explanation for the amendment we gave. So, “the proposed solution is unacceptable from a legal and practical point of view, especially because it is not the subject of this law and as indicated in Article 1. Proposal for a law’. What's this about? Rights, duties, obligations and responsibilities of professional officers and professional officers are prescribed by the Military and Service Rules Act. Training, implementing exercises, commanding units and troops of Serbia are regulated by special rules of training and regulations on management and command and applies to all members of the Serbian Army. There is no obligation to assist in training, because we really don't know what it means, but the obligation and responsibility of each individual, a professional soldier, to train his subordinate to carry out his intended task. The notional provision of support for commanding in training is not in line with the principles of leadership and command, nor with the principles of co-ordination and elders in the Serbian Army, nor do other modern armies know such a solution, except, perhaps, some exceptions. Otherwise, this matter is the subject of some other people, the law of forming an association. Let me tell you right away, Mr. Minister, that you saw this as the formation of a special legal entity, that is, a special organisation, stems from what you said that Serbia's military is being educated as a sub-officer, represented by sub-office officers. If you had written, if they were members of him, then we would have known. Since the representative function applies, first of all, to some special organizations and to those organisations who manage them, i.e. represent those organisations in front of third parties, we think that this word "represents" is completely wrong. There you have also mentioned support, I have already said in the amendment, that they can work from the level of troops to the level of the Serbian Army's General Staff. Indeed too wide, too vague, and I suppose that in this room none of the MPs are clear what a sub-office crust is going to be, is it exclusively about active military persons, whether it applies, perhaps, to the reserve composition, whether it refers to an active and passive reserve, as foreseen by the law. Indeed, we do not know, and that is the only reason why we suggest that these two positions in this article be deleted, because we think that it is unclear what this is about, is that too many opportunities are given to create some organizations that we do not know what they would serve and all the purposes they have. If this is a pandan to the Union of Reserve Military Elders, or backup military officers and sub-offices, meaning those who are reserves, then I don't know why these bonds should be made and whether this is related to Article 76. The defense law, which mentions the funding of the association from the budget. There's too much uncertainty about these two attitudes, so I'd like to ask you, if you could answer us closer, you or your representatives, which means, what are all the purposes, before we see in Section 5 that the sub-office court is governed by the Secretary of Defense. We'd like to know what the Secretary of Defense will do. It is clear to me, on the proposal of the Commissioner, and I do not dispute it at all as your right, but we would like, since you are already given this right, that you do so, to go out for this speaker and to explain to all MPs a little bit closer, to the Jeremys of several MPs who may be interested in this area, as I am, and no one has been able to find a logical explanation, or any known explanation for the definition of the suboffice crust and all its activities. So it's not our goal to delete these two attitudes by proposing such an amendment, to prevent the organisation of the military, if it's in the interest of defence or the implementation of training, but it's not clear to us and we'd like to know in more detail, so that we can define ourselves in the right way, in the day of voting, according to this amendment and according to this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13265	The word is from MP Vladan Batic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, since this amendment refers to the reserve composition, I am returning to the topic concerning the reserve assembly, urging the defence minister to try to find a solution for the reserves from the south of Serbia, from Nisko, Rasinski, Jablaničko and Toplici County. Since Kosovo and Metohija's resolution is approaching and some warriors are announcing to us the introduction of an emergency or, possibly, a war situation, in any case, boost tensions, it will inevitably put conditions into some higher degree of readiness of the military and the reserve composition of the military and some form of mobilization. There was one depression, a resection, people are really demoralized, discouraged, resilient, depressed, disappointed, and I think, if their demands seem megalomantic and pretentious, that perhaps we should try to find some measure to meet everyone, however. For your information, Mr. Minister, a few days ago, some of the reserves have collected their claims, those lawsuits they've made to the verdicts. Only two of them, I have papers, but I don't want to mention names, I can give it to you, they've charged over a million dinars from Serbia's budget, from the defence ministry's register. It then causes divisions, disappointments, etc. I have here an official note from a meeting in the Serbian government on November 2nd, where it was established and proposed to the strike committee that, due to the difficult material situation of the population, the family of reservers in the area of Toplički district, in the coming period, through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, certain material resources, as set out in Article 9. The Social Security Act. The amount of compensation will be determined at the next working group meeting. So these people are pretending, by decision and by government's will, to second-class citizens, in social cases, to be offered social assistance. That's not how problems are solved, especially in these times that are, in any case, quite dramatic. Trying to help these people in any way, and their delegation from Prokuplje, Despotovac and Blaca, was still at my house today, for ten days I was trying to get the head of the cabinet of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Rakic. Every day I left a message, asking to hear from me, to set up that meeting, because yet the President of the Republic is the institution they can, at least, present their demands. I can't reach the head of the cabinet, so then, on Monday, Mr. Radjujko came to me, I don't know what function he's doing, I guess, the Secretary General of the Republic, and he promised me that by the end of the week there would be a pretty good meeting of the President of the Republic with a reserve delegation, which I don't have to attend at all, I'm insignificant here. There's no answer, no further. I don't want to give their pessimistic prognosis, or their revolt. They say the elections go diverse, so let these people come from power, not naming anyone, to Prokuplje, Kursumli, to hold a rally. There is no need to create tensions, no need to post-poly deny their demands, as long as hundreds of millions of dinars have left Serbia's budget, out of the country's register. I repeat for the hundredth time, you can't be somebody's mother and someone's stepmom. People can't turn into first and second-row citizens, or someone has to answer and end up in prison. They have no ambition for some astronomical fees, but these people have to be respected, and not, as they're offered, to get the treatment of social cases and social aid, especially for the third time, in these difficult and very delicate times. That's my appeal. I haven't shown up anywhere yet as a lawyer, maybe I won't be, to be attributed to the abuse of a congregation speaker for that reason. If I am, I will never charge a penny, as I've never done before from people whose demands are life-, human and political.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13267	I thank the People's MP Dr. Vladan Batic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13268	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted the amendment, it may be in the same text, it doesn't matter, but it is about Articles 20, 4 and 5. A colleague, Vasiljevic, said in the light of his amendment that these two attitudes are really pointless, which serve nothing. Our position is that we can fix this bad law if we delete them, because they don't mean anything and, please, if you will, explain. As far as I was concerned, there was an officer's court that was meant to assist in some military investigation in the arms and other military equipment exhibition, and it made some sense, and it's the kind of officer that nobody knows in the military, so we're asking you to erase these two attitudes. In my presentation in the principle of military law, I've said a lot of things. However, I did not remind the citizens, and this is an opportunity for the military, police and foreign affairs to be pillars of a state. When the Department of Defense comes out with a bill like this on the Army, I believe he intends to destroy the military system. How does it work? On October 5th, 2000, Boris Tadic became defence minister, the DS ministers literally realised that the DS company, while the ministers who run certain ministries, in fact, were the general directors of these companies, so Boris Tadic moved on, later continued. Boris Tadic has appointed Goran Vesic as his adviser, who you know has been hiding during NATO aggression in Montenegro, avoiding his military obligations, mobilization and all that other citizens have suffered. This showed attitude toward those who really defended and defended this country. Later, Davinic was appointed defence minister. However, he was not at the will of the DS and then, by making up the affair, the "pancer" affair, led him to leave his post. He resigned to his post, and behind it all clearly stands the money. After that, Zoran Stankovic was appointed defence minister. He did everything, but he didn't interfere in his business, so that the arrival of the Sutanovac, absolutely, would go through a firm where he was an adviser, or perhaps even, the chairman of the board of directors, through the SDPR. How does he do that? By bringing all former SDPR directors to the Department of Defense for the assistants. Isn't that a direct conflict of interest? Ilija Pilipovic was appointed assistant to the defence minister for material resources, before he was head of the sector for Europe and America in the SDPR. It wouldn't matter much if it weren't for the money. Everything related to the Army, past public procurement, gets SDPR. When a tender was launched for the MIG 29 remont, the best offer, I would remind citizens and MPs, she gave "Yugochemia", even for three million euros a better offer. But the job got SDPR, and now the whole case is in court. Now, the procurement of telecommunications equipment is under way, which I asked the minister about. In this year alone, 900 million are planned, otherwise three billion worth of work, and all work goes past the tender, allegedly because it's a confidential purchase. Next, he was brought in as Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponoš whom none of the prominent military experts know as a military person and as a military-qualified man. He's got rank and now he's doing what he wants. The most negative example is the abolition of the so-called ". tactical and technical carriers. One who understands the military knows this, and it is the institutions responsible for developing and adopting a new one, for modernising, using and maintaining weapons and military equipment. Everything seems to be incapacitated, citizens' trust in the military disappears, and that mission ends, which is that the Serbian Army does not exist, and that we can join NATO and thus provide our citizens with any military influences, dangers, etc. And this is not so bad that the concept of "military reform" is not being carried out through the NATO system. The system was rejected and kicked out of their programme on the DSS main board a few months ago. And the prime minister of the government, Kostunica, continued to support this kind of reform of the NATO system. Once again, I stress that DS would not have had such a harmful influence on the military if it weren't for Vojislav Kostunica, by dividing the ministries as their own fronts, so it allows them to do whatever they want. Dear MPs, I invite you to try to improve this bad law with these amendments, as much as possible, because these views in Article 20 don't make any sense. Another document – "Jugoimport" SDPR, 320 million in advance to be charged, sent by the current, new director of the US sector and Europe Marina Vuksanovic, and it invoices what it says – on behalf of the dependent costs in the next period, pay that kind of money, and we from the DS will see what we will do with that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13269	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Milosav Milickovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic appeared, and then, on the occasion of the amendment, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right now I've sent a delegation of reservers who have been on strike for a long time, and the government, as you can see, has been deafening. These people wouldn't be so unhappy if they weren't 114, by name and last name, the reservers, who were mostly around the administrative border, so they didn't go down where the war was going on, charged between 500,000 and 800,000 dinars, depending on how long they were in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on the Minister to urgently resolve the problem of the reservation logs, because these people didn't go, first of all, to earn that money, they went to defend the country. By the way this proposal is being prepared for both the defence and the military and how this law will be passed, you will hardly be able to mobilize one of your own, send it to defend your country. These people will again, and the representatives of some other parties will go again if the country invites them. I demand that, urgently, on behalf of the SRS, of course, resolve the question of the daily reservers who were bleeding, not to say they bled their pants, but to bleed, defending their country, and those who sat in the courts, even their wives, paid compensation for the fear they suffered. The number of that compensation for fear suffered was moving somewhere around 400,000 dinars. They were very frightened, as soon as the state managed to reduce their pain and fear with 400,000. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't play with the people who put their heads in the bag, went to the battlefield and defended the country. Solve the question and pay people back. However, the fee for these telecommunications may be a little smaller, but we'll talk about it when the telecommunications issue comes up. Representatives Vukasinović Nebojsa and Bakic Free asked me, because there are stories that they all collected, to tell you that if you find their name on any list where the money was taken, you will find their names on the list that they went to defend the country, that they were invited and that they responded to the call of the country, but if you find one of these names, they are ready to bear all the consequences. From Prokuplje and the environment 10,000 people have gone away, 10,000 people are looking for what you were obliged to do immediately after the war ended, or immediately after the "buldozer" revolution, pay them off.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13271	I thank MP Momir Markovic. The word is from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, about the amendment. You have seven minutes. Amendment number 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said that the proposal that was before us was not written by the Minister or by anyone at the Ministry, this is written elsewhere, but what's sad here is that neither the Minister nor anyone from the Ministry, from his associates, has read this. That's the biggest problem. That's what I'm going to prove on Article 19's case. We just had one amendment to Mr. Bakovic, it seems to me to be Article 19, which should have been deleted by the position of the 3rd member. Now, the position of the 3rd member, the Chief of Staff, may be authorised directly by the appointed elders in the Serbian Army to carry out the tasks referred to in point (4) of Article 1(4) of this article. The 1st position -- chief of staff and Serbian Army elders command and manage Serbia's military in accordance with the law and acts of command of superiors. There's no such thing as attitude one or first, or fourth, or any other point. So you didn't have so much responsibility to at least read this and to formalize it, but it remained the way it is and how, of course, you're going to vote, the vast majority, not you. The vast majority of MPs who support this government don't even look at this and don't read it, they don't care, they just vote when the day comes. As for Article 20, we have two amendments to the two parliamentary groups, which are identical – that the positions of the 4th and 5th are deleted. I would ask now, if any of the MPs knew what a sub-office crust was, to come out and explain it to us. The minister doesn't know that, but if any of the MPs happen to know it, let them come out and say that we all in the O.R. know. Is it some singing company in the Army or something, and, if there's a sub-office, where's the officer? Why isn't he here? Please, I've spoken to high-ranking officers and those who spent 20 years in the Army in active service don't know about this. Don't prescribe something you don't know about or what it is, or what its role and function is, or how it will be organised. If it's a group, an association, or whatever, it's not governed by this law. There are other regulations on the basis of which it can be arranged, but, Minister, you keep your mouth shut, keep your mouth shut, probably on that one, it's not folk, but it's good – it's better to keep quiet, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13273	I thank the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 22 by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment with the correction be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very noticeable what I wanted to say here on behalf of the SPS. So, we think that the introduction of a new act – a brigade general, and the erasure of the existing act – the general colonel and the analogue acts relating to the naval acts, are not necessary, but should be as it was. It's a concept issue now. The Brigadier General is not a new act in our army. There were earlier acts of that rank, after World War II, painted by the Red Army, so there were generals. The youngest general-latetant in the former Yugoslavia was Slavko Rodic, at the age of 23. The rank of the general is a very high rank. So, all I'm talking about is the General, not the Major General, the Colonel or the Brigadier General. I believe our army is not formatted today in such a way that it has any military duty to act as generals. This can be done by armies that have a huge technical machine, a huge number of people, a huge number of units in operational use and a reserve. We, unfortunately, don't have such an army, and if this is a book that the Army will become one, then I welcome it. Here, Mr. Minister, that's what I'm saying publicly. If it's a book, then I say hello. Also, I think the rank of Brigadier General "Neither fish nor girl" is, therefore, too little for the general and too little for the colonel. But, well, it's now an act reenactment, again in another concept, that's something I understand, that's all I'm opposed to. It would make more sense to me that this was arranged differently because, based on what we all know about the military, every act assumes expertise, training, formation, a whole series of other things. We are, by the way, a country that has a great military and military tradition and we have extraordinary elders, we have them today. With regard to the dilemma that appears here, the sub-office crust, etc., the crust is in every sense, even in the military. So it should be one esnafic-protocollar variant, if that's what the president was saying, if he was going to say that we're something else today, then that's what the explanation is. It's also questionable why there's no officer's crust. By the way, speaking of this, let me say that a large number of current officers express regret that he did not remain, or that he was not reintroduced into the army by a junior officer. They believe that the officer is associated with something else, that here the officers are treated as people of machines, as people who absolutely cannot be inventive, but as people who are expected to carry out certain orders in one extremely rigid way. So it's supposed to be people completely brainwashed, but that's the thing of what they want. Let me get back to the amendment. I wish those acts were left, because I think they're more appropriate to our terms, our traditions, because if this is the concept of the Army, then believe us, we don't need generals either. So there's nothing in the world, no military formation that the Colonel can't command. Here, I'm asking you now, Mr. Minister, do you know what all commanding duties of the American Army are? I know you know that. So, the Colonel is a very high rank in every army and that's something, but well, you've done it here in a different way. I also want to say that I am also using this opportunity to protest what the General and Admiral Club is so excommunicated from the Serbian House of the Army. No one should have any fear of these people. These people can only help. If they're already early and without a precise explanation retired, we've been fighting here for the former presidents of the state to have protocol duties, to have certain rights, etc., then generals, admirals and others, who are retired, should not be treated this way. Among them are doctors of military sciences, among them are doctors of other sciences, among them are people who had prominent command-command duties, among them are people who best disguised military technique and weapons during NATO aggression and thus ensure that 90% of military equipment is preserved. So, I think that's one auto goal. It's yours to appreciate why you did it. I think that it is a auto goal and that these people can be of great benefit, because if it is a trend, then, I remind you, you have a reserve across Serbia of great people, who are still today, although I don't know if anyone has informed them, the commanders of the regiment. I can say the name of one of those, it's Mr. Dragan Vasovic of Cačka, who commanded the unit that shot down NATO planes during NATO's campaign, the lieutenant lieutenant, former director of Elektrodicija in Cačka. So there are great people who have extraordinary military knowledge. Otherwise, Mr. Dragan Vasovic is a graduate electrical engineering engineer. In order for analogy to be complete, there are people who are highly qualified, and that applies to generals and admirals. So, our country isn't rich enough to deny their knowledge of their experience, and as far as I'm concerned, it's completely irrelevant to bring an act saying I can't go to the House of the Army or to an officer's home to meet generals and admirals, that's something that's... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: That's not true.) We've made a schedule. I have paper where it says it, and I apologize if it's not true. If you want to respect a general, not 500, then you can't make an office schedule when they'll use them. They must have their own room, but we'll make sure they get the space. So if it was a dilemma now, we'll make sure they get the right space. But that's not good, they better be where they're supposed to be. In that sense, I don't want to argue with you here, but I'm simply asking questions publicly. It took place in the history of the Serbian army, three times the Duke Misic was saddened and promoted, each time on senior command duty, and for the third time on the most famous, with the most famous result. So it may be that sometimes a resolution and degradation is a condition for some improvement. When Mr. Albianic gave me a warning last night, he actually hung a golden collage on my chest; when he punished me, it was a confession to me. Also, a number of generals and admirals have the same relationship. So don't push these people away from you, Mr. Minister, I'm very serious. Don't push these people away from the Army, don't throw them away like this. These people are a living military encyclopedia, they have great experience and they need to use defense preparations, first of all, this country, the way it works everywhere in the world. I don't want us to get any worse. I'm expressing regret that it is. They had the need to make this public, to do so in the future, but we are a poor country to give up one military and military, officer and commandal experience, which in every other country would be welcome. So that's my request. Of course, you'll do what you think you should, but I think it's wrong and I'm trying to explain it. Of course, I can't change that for now, it'll be a time when it can be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13275	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. It's about the amendment, MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, decided to let the military play a little bit, to invent hot water, to find something in which at least a little different from what she's represented so far. Let me remind you, by 1999, or by 2000, the Serbian Army, before that, the Yugoslav Army, before that, JNA, was a very respectable force. After changing the rank, they decided to introduce a little, as they say, order and in determining these acts, so they say, in Article 22: "Students and students of military institutions, persons on second professional training for officers", etc., "and persons in reserve can have rank from the position of the first member". And the attitude of the 1st member says, "For a professional soldier, the rank is a corporal, a corporal and a junior sergeant." We'll have a fourth-year student at the Academy, who'll be a corporal, a corporal or a junior sergeant. So far, it has been up to now that students of the academy and high military schools, above all, of the academy, carry rank of officers until they finish, when they finish, are promoted to the rank of officers, lieutenants or lieutenants, depending on how many years the studies have lasted. National MP Rajko Baralic has submitted a very meaningful amendment. First, I absolutely agree with Mr. Baralic, where the word "general" is replaced by the word "general colonel." We're a small army to have a general. As I recall, at the time I served, the rank of the general was behind the generals of the army, and you didn't see him, you didn't even see him during the war, I know it, you didn't see if he was from the colonel or during the war. Let me remind you, all the famous generals from the war to defend Kosovo and Metohija, for Serbia's defense, at the time your friends sent us those'merciful angels', you retired. I remind you, General Delic is, by the way, our colleague, the MP of the SRS, the general who stopped NATO's infantry from setting foot in Serbia. Their action was called "Strela." He had 120 and some dead in the brigade. He protected the state because it was his primary job. Today there are no such generals, there are generals who have the highest credit for being brother-in-law or pasture, I can't be completely sure which of these two functions belong to him, and he's the Chief of Staff. It's the general who didn't line up a larger unit of water, and it's an honorary platoon, not a platoon, but that honorable platoon that only fires a bullet when one of your friends, those same, comes along, and now you're waiting for them on the red carpet. So I think this amendment should be adopted, and the explanation is so funny that it's just sad for a man to read. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed decisions of Article 22 of this Act are in line with the generalised standards. I'm asking you whose standards? Is this the Serbian Army, did Serbia have any military standards so far, or are you going to look for a pothole and invent standards? How are you going to rank a student of a two-year-old sub-office school, say he's a third-year-old, and a three-year-old military academy student? Both will have the same rank? He'll have the rank of corporal, corporal or, at best, a junior sergeant. Don't play with the Army of Serbia. Serbia's army is not a toy, although that's what you understood. It is too serious to make such unsuspecting suggestions before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13277	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Nenad Canak submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to which this is concerned – Article 23 paragraph 2 is amended and reads: "The President of the Republic, as a rule, regulates the existence, appearance and use of symbols and features of the position of the 1st member, on the proposal of the defence minister, with the need to take care of the regional specificities of members of the Army of Serbia." So it's about the next one. We received inspiration for this amendment by exploring the military history of these premises and the experience of NOB. Because I will remind you that, although in one of the previous meetings of the Assembly, the partisans and Chetniks are equal, i.e. Chetniks took the partisans place, NOB is a great inspiration in forming the organization structure of the armed forces, i.e. The armies of Serbia. I will remind myself that in NOB, at the very beginning of anti-fascist action, individual units, other than common tags, meant the red stars, had national flags, so they also had a Serbian flag, in Vojvodina there was Hungary, with Hungarian units, or with Germany, since there was a German company. However, I would refer to something else. The experiences of the British army indicate that soldiers from Scotland or Wales have special uniforms. We're not going after the team. We're going after the tags of the regional army. As Scottish soldiers have characteristic elements on their uniform, national quarantined fabrics, Velsa soldiers, we are going after the fact that in Serbia, for all its regional differences, it would be very important to strengthen the sense of belonging in Serbia's Army, among other things, by putting Banatian gold spare tulips in use in Banat, which would return to use the markings of a chess battalion or a silver deer, or, in central Serbia itself, some other markings. The idea itself does not affect, as the government has given reason for not accepting this amendment, in the organisational structure of the military itself, but it is about soldiers, not in generations, visions, as indicated here, but in the organization itself, being regionally concentrated, which would contribute to greater confidence in the military and its combative state, regardless of its numbers. Such an amendment would, of course, contribute to building more trust for citizens in Serbia's military, which in its predecessors, Serbia-Montenegro's Army, before that to the Yugoslav Army, and before that, in JNA, was undermined over a long period of years, by the abuse of the military, and a strict distinction with past times must be made. This is the kind of amendment you'd be leading in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13279	People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13280	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS, in fact, its MPs, do not support this amendment, Mr. Nenad Chanka. We believe that such an amendment is not in line with what the state of Serbia is, which should be its army and what should be the order of the Serbian state. Finally, it is neither in accordance with the current constitution nor with the laws, nor with these draft laws, and they are still in the adoption phase. Everything can be adopted, but the adoption of such legal solutions does not contribute to what needs to be the stability of the Republic of Serbia, its unity, its respect, without hitting on what differs between people, national minorities and so on. So there are organisational reasons, and that's what the law stipulates, that the marking and symbols are used depending on the organisation structure of the Army. So here we have different visions of the Army, and the visions are divided into tribes and services, tribes and services in kind, and species in specialities, etc. Of course, both symbols and markings mark the Army as a unique, unique entity that is in the service of the country's defence. The introduction, therefore, of labels and symbols marking the specificities of these regions, etc., as suggested here, is knocking on the door of Serbia's federalisation, not only of federalisation, but of Serbia's confederations. This, as well as some other solutions that advocate the constitutional solutions of Vojvodina, or, even, perhaps constitutionally, because it seems to me that there is such advocacy, in the sense that the national communities in Vojvodina should represent constituent members of the Autonomous Region, water, in fact, that ultimate goal – that Serbia be a Federation, the next day or the day after, perhaps a confederation, and then it is the ultimate result - secession. There are probably such policies, not likely, but I'm sure that there are such policies and they are being seen. So, the SPS does not support such a course of reform, such a direction of solution, neither in the military nor in the state order, and in this particular case we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13281	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has the word, in the form of a replica. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13282	I've got a gentleman from the SPS to draw attention to one thing. The SPS is the last to talk about secession in this country, for a simple reason, which has led to the collapse of several countries so far, from SFRY, SRJ, SCG, and we will see how the operation will end so far. (Zeljko Vasiljevic, from the city: not SCG. I'm sorry, the SCG was more of a "grass route" function, and this was organized to the SPS. So it's all about the violent insistence on unity that is, in fact, identity. Serbia is unique and that is the way that we all, I believe, who are in this room, will go, but the ways in which we come to this uniqueness is what we are different. Your way is that every difference is considered a danger, every indication of regional specificity is interpreted as some kind of covered separatist plan, and I have to remind you that in Vojvodina, from which I come, over 70% of Serbian citizens, which is less important. It is far more important that 100% of the people of Vojvodina are loyal citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that none of them come to the heart of any independence of the Vojvodina in any independent state. Manipulating that thesis is very dangerous. Because what did we in Vojvodina deserve with such permanent mistrust, when it is known that, to the greatest extent possible, the Dukes responded most loyally to the mobilizations when the state asked them to? What we deserve, when during NATO interventions are citizens of Vojvodina, e.g. Hungarian nationality, with a list of others in Vojvodina and Serbia, to share the fate of their fellow citizens with NATO bombs, not wanting to go to Hungary? What do we deserve not to point to any element of regional or national specificity when it comes to the military or any state authority? What is the difference between what I say and more language -- nothing, for the simple reason, that this amendment of ours is not a change in the symbol of the Army, but merely an addition, with existing organisational symbols, which will confirm all diversity and, through diversity, the overall power of democratic Serbia. You're putting us in a position to justify our last intentions. Believe that's not the intention. When you change your way of thinking, you might be able to save a country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13283	Here you go, Mr. Miletic, according to the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica on the replica, but here's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13284	So, I'm going to try to answer with a measure of response, in terms of the alignment of something that are qualifications. So, no, Mr. Canak, that the SPS last should point to what its position is when it comes to these attitudes, is already the first to point out. Nothing the SPS would be ashamed of in what it did in defending the Serbian state and the Serb people. Now I wouldn't continue the discussion, I don't want to talk about the difference, but if I have to, that's after. So much for that. Secondly, I agree that 70% of Serbs are in Vojvodina. But certainly, you, Mr. Canak, and your political party do not represent those 70% of Serbs. There, in Vojvodina, these Serbs represent some other parties, as many as there are, that is what the election results are. Therefore, you cannot assume what the position of all these Serbs is, in general, the position of Serbian nationality in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13285	I thank Ambassador Miletic. The replica of Mr. Mihajlovic's presentation has a National MP, Nenad Canak. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13286	I'm really sorry if you didn't get me right. I did not say that Serbs in Vojvodina or others support the Social Democratic League's policy list. I was just talking about statistics that unequivocally talk about the senselessness of any consideration of any separatist thought in Vojvodina. Furthermore, I was not talking about the fact that members of the Serbian Army should wear party marks, but regional ones. There are, therefore, other than LSV and other parties in Vojvodina, much stronger than LSV, but I didn't talk about it. I was talking about that if we want to modernise and democratisation Serbia, it can't mostly just make up, one and the same centralist concept, which doesn't recognise any diversity. As for the defence, which you say the SPS has nothing to be ashamed of, I will remind you that whatever the Socialist Party of Serbia, from the position of the state government, defended, it has failed, whatever it was it was trying to protect, it burned down, whatever people swore, through its state leaders, that people were after being the victim of the exodus. So I would strongly recommend to those who are well-intentioned towards Serbia and the Serbian people not to use the SPS experience, because this will only mean that Serbia will continue to shrink and that, I don't know, Studio B, let's say, will then call Studio V, Studio Vozdovac. They'll have a national frequency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13287	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13288	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, there you are, Mr. Canak, you expect it to be interesting now, is that correct? Rightly so, Mr. Chanak. You're right about one part of your story. Do you know what part you're right about? At least we tried, as the Constitution imposed, as was the case with good tradition, good history, good norm, to defend Serbia's state and national interests. About the policy we had, they had the opportunity to declare themselves citizens in the 1990-2000 elections. (Nenad Canak: By the competent judicial institutes.) ) About the competent judicial institutes and how well they work, it is evidence that you are still at large, when it comes to protection, of course, constitutional and state systems. As far as you're concerned, it's a good thing your wishes are fulfilled. The desire for Serbia to be weakened has been fulfilled, so that your autonomous projects can be implemented. Your desire to be rewarded for the role you played in the destruction of Slobodan Milosevic was fulfilled and, as you yourself stated on a fine show, when you were asked what you were living on, and you said, out of lack of evidence. Also, Mr. Canak, if we are already talking about the works or the Sundays of one or the other, you are forgetting that political option called DOS, which, through a small coup, a small arson, no similar Reichstag, came to power, that you have been ruling Serbia for eight years and that, after eight years of DOS authorities, it is not enough for you to accuse the SPS and that it is no longer enough for you to have the help of those who helped you in your arrival in 2000, and they are not citizens or organisations from the Republic of Serbia. We also see by these laws that in Serbia, there are a lot of those who portray "Pink" as "Kursadzija". I heard that you in America, too, seemed to be a Ph.D. today, thanks to the institutionalised separatism that the DS suffers in Vojvodina, for the sake of maintaining its authority, in the image, seems to me, in the secretary of your party, Mr. Bojan Kostreš, we have the opportunity to have an unofficial foreign minister who walks around the world and spits on his country. Mr. Canak, after eight years of Dossier rule... Thank you, Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, I didn't hear what Mr. Canak said, but I was just entering the O.R....
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13289	You've said enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13290	Just one more sentence, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Canak is not pleased that the SRJ has been torn apart, uniting BiH at the expense of Republika Srpska, is not satisfied that we have a small number of Wahhabis, as their leader died in conflict with Serbian police, but we now need to internationalise the Vojvodina issue. Mr. Canak, some say the damage done by NATO bombs to Serbia and Serbia's national interests is far less than the damage some politicians in Serbia today, including you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13291	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13292	Thank you. I'm really impressed with Mr. Bajatovic, because he's the man who best represents the party that belongs to her ideas. First, because he said he didn't hear what I said, but he has serious objections. Since he hasn't heard one piece, he's got an objection to everything. I would remind you, Mr. Bayatovic, half the truth – the whole lie, i.e. half my exposure certainly couldn't give you a full picture of what I was saying. You're talking about the LSV having some kind of separatist program or something, and I'm going to tell you right now that you started to undermine trust in the institutions of this country, given that the government of the Republic of Serbia clearly gave LSV in writing that Serbia's MUP has no knowledge of it. Are you saying that our police don't know that our police are lying, that our police are not doing their job well enough, so they can't reveal their enemies, or even when they're sitting in the Assembly Hall? I just can't believe it, because it's still the police you've made, with his commander Slobodan Milosevic, who, by his command, has most celebrated himself by his command by doing an unrecognizable act in Serbian history -- signed the capitulation and abandonment of Kosovo, under the euphemist name – the Business and Technical Cooperation Treaty. Business-technical co-operation was to get out of Serbia's territory without any discussion, so that all Serbian institutions would withdraw from the work of the sovereign Republic of Serbia. So it's business-technical co-operation. What's business and what's technique? Now, anymore, I don't want to talk about it. A lot of things will be said by the judicial authorities, whose face you will surely face. As for institutionalised separatism, Bojan Kostreš, I will remind you that the president of the AP Assembly Bojan Kostres, in accordance with his legal powers, represents AP Vojvodina and that, for example, at a series of meetings, the state officials of the Republic of Serbia were always present, including at the last meeting in Paris, and Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister. So why would the state administration suffer for someone to spit on the state or betray it, or is it insulting in front of their eyes, in their presence? I don't believe that deeply. I mean, Mr. Bayatovic, that you, as a young man, can change, can help you, but you need to start cooperating.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13293	Thank you. Again according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic, and then Alexander Marton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13294	I had a chance, right, to hear the full truth about Mr. Chank, so then I'll try to answer everything he said. Mr. Canak, it's true that what you're saying, in a political sense, and you say it's by Mr. Jocic's assessment, is neither illegal nor illegal. In that sense, it's not illegal. Also, it's true that it's very harmful. If you want to convince me that on some of Mr. Kostreš's routes, or some of your stands, and the question is how much you spend state money and for what, some DS officials participated, then I'm not surprised it was Mr. Jeremic, because apparently, a man is not well informed, as if he belongs to someone who has an "Serbia" extra name. Otherwise, if Mr. Jeremic, who is obviously young and under-experienced, knows what you're doing on your journeys, I don't believe he would give you support. It's your old thesis that someone signed some kind of capitulation in Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you that probably, with the consent and with your knowledge, this country has been bombed for 78 days, so that you can come to power. I remind you that you have betrayed and sold the ideas of October 5th, for which some other, honorable and honest people in Serbia, were eager to change, in their opinion, for a reason, for 10 years. You live very well today, they live very badly today. As far as war goes, every war ends, as you know, with some peace treaty. Usually, such contracts have their own political and military components. If you had the opportunity to participate in the exchange of English forces and forces of the then Yugoslav or Serbian armies in Pristina, there at the bus station, when the English were afraid to hold those machine guns, and our new tanks M-84 and M-72 came out, you would see that the effect of NATO bombing, in military terms, was very small for our units and that our army was proud, and all of those three fingers, was coming out of Pristina. So much for that pact and what you say, capitulation. As you know, some ministers later destroyed this army much better than NATO bombs, and you were with some of them in serious and fat political co-operation, and today you are. As for the political part of the agreement, from that Dayton, to Resolution 1244, what could Serbia have drawn more from the conflict with the 19 most powerful countries in the world? There is one reverse question, Mr. Canak, when we are talking about it, can you today, in your opinion, have a minimal result, together with your colleagues from individual political options, not my intention to charge everything in any case, can you at least that position offered by the Dayton Agreement in Republika Srpska and that position offered by Serbia Resolution 1244, along with some of your political associates, to preserve? No, those aren't your goals. Your goals, and this shows your good friendship with Mr Milo Djukanovic, are to further reduce and bring Serbia to the Belgrade Pashalu. These are your true goals. Let me just say it one more time to all those who don't know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13295	You have 10 minutes on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13296	I don't want to talk about the amendment, just another sentence. So, again, Mr. Canak, I urge my DS colleagues to reconsider why they are putting up with you in the duchy government, because in this way we have separatism, the separation of Vojvodina from Serbia, because in Serbia too often there is a policy to maintain the coalition at all costs, even though it is extremely unprincipled. Don't abuse this pay phone and talk about how your goals aren't separatist. They are not, I repeat, illegal or illegal, and therefore probably, Police Minister Jocic said that you are not criminal in this regard, but are harmful to the interests of Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13297	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13298	I think Dusan Bajatovic knows very well that the functioning of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, in any case, is exactly how it was characterised by the police of the Republic of Serbia, so it is fully in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I would just remind Mr Bajatovic, he certainly remembers in 2002, when, before Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe, Serbia remained, of course, far from the European Union, Vojvodina entered the first association to which it entered, in general, the Republic of Serbia, which is the Assembly of the European Regions. At that time, Mr. Nenad Canak was head of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Today is the head of the assembly of the AP Duke's Mr. Kostresh, which you spoke of for a moment. Mr. Kostresh is, by the way, a member of the Bureau of the Assembly of the European Regions today. You also mentioned Republika Srpska. Just to the insistence of Bojan Kostreš, I repeat, a member of the Bureau of the Assembly of European Regions from the AP Vojvodina, Republika Srpska was admitted several days ago to the Assembly of the European Regions. Where will you push for Republika Srpska's rights within the single state of Bosnia and Herzegovina?- I'm sorry. As for the fact that only Vojvodina is a member of the Assembly of the European Regions, I would just say that it is precisely because of this rigid centralisation in the Republic of Serbia, because there are no other regions; there is only the region of Vojvodina in Serbia and, of course, an autonomous province. Because of the SPS policy, because there is no decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, other regions in Serbia cannot enter the European Regional Assembly. Think about what the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina is doing, how the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina is doing. In our way, help Serbs from the former Yugoslavia, we will all be much happier.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13299	Break till 4:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon work. Replica, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13301	I'm glad Mr. Bajatovic is here, because I would really hate for him not to hear what I have to say to him. First of all, Mr. Bajatovic, I thank you for finally lighting up the SPS policy in full light, which is probably the greatest evil that has happened to Serbia in the past 200 years, because your level of deinstitutionalization of the country, the words you have spoken for this speaker, will remain the darkest letters, because you said that what we from LSV are at large, approximately, is a coincidence. Just one sentence later, you said that what we're doing doesn't stand up to laws or anything. How, then, should we meet in prisons, Mr. Bajatovic, if it is not a return at the time when you have determined, in your party forums, who should be in prison, who should be expelled from the country, who should be discriminated in any way and disabling in your media, who should be tied to a pillar of shame just because it does not agree to your harmful and people's rejected politics? You honor me for my friendship with Milo Djukanovic, with Milo Djukanovic, whom you were party mates with, not me. Milo Djukanovic and I were never in the same party, and you were. You are the one to whom he was the closest associate and parliamentarian for years, until he realized what evil you were leading the country and what evil you had brought to Serbia, the Serbian people and the whole common state in which you had an accident to gain power. I think the citizens had that accident. That's why, any stories about separatism, any stories about the country being reportedly bombed, are pointless. Mr. Bajatovic, I did not hide as a mole in the bunkers, but I sat in my apartment in Novi Sad, under bombs for more than 70 days, under the bombs of those you brought to the sky of Serbia, because you led a policy that opposed common sense and the entire planet. That's why, Mr. Bayatovic, I must say with full responsibility, the SPS is probably the most damaging thing that exists in this country. For you, the SRS is simply to prescribe a prescription in the pharmacy as a baby powder, since you are that degree of vermin. I'll finish this presentation with the next sentence. It is a poor country if you need it, Mr. Bajatovic, and the SPS to defend from me, Nenada Chanka and LSV, the liquids and intentions of October 5th, because the only intention of October 5th is to be punished, and the fine deserved is to live as the rest of the citizens of this country, in the paradise that you have provided them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13302	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13303	I don't know how much socialists we are better or worse than the SRS, but, Mr. Canak, you don't understand things. You shouldn't be in jail because of legal and legitimate separatist demands, but because of certain economic problems. That's two completely different things. Since we're talking politics here today, Mr. Canak, I must admit that you are very consistent in implementing your separatism and hatred for the SPS, because we are socialists all the things that you are not. I say - thank God, like Mr. Canak. When Serbia was from three parts, we did everything we could to make it whole. That's what's bothering you. When someone says that Republika Srpska is a genocide, as those you very often associate with say, we Socialists say that Republika Srpska is the result of the war on these premises, but also of international contracts that have confirmed all major forces, flows of civil war, conflict and destruction, the breaking of the former Yugoslavia. The only difference between you and us is our willingness to point out that perhaps the Republic of Croatia, which has had in its history a Jasenovac and in its recent history the exorcism of 250,000 Serbs from their territory, and you have done nothing, as part of the government, when it was time to help those same Serbs return to Croatia, which, in Kosovo and Metohija, is genocide. Because it's true, unlike you, I don't have that many friends in this international community today. Let me remind you, you promised honey and milk, you promised that Serbia would light up, you promised well after October 5th. That good hasn't come yet to those who have walked with you for 10 years. It is not an evil that has prompted Serbia's Socialist Party of Serbia. Like any well-founded party, we went out to the polls and in those elections we received a rating from the people. As for the policy you're leading today, Mr. Canak, she's playing something else. Your friend, "King" Milo Djukanovic, on the moment he realized that things, thanks to the Belgrade Agreement, are happening so that he can become the owner of life and death in Montenegro, he separated Serbia-Montenegro and today in Montenegro with the help of the Albanian factor. That also applies to your autonomists. There is no political movement in the history of what we today call the AP Vojvodina, which was related to any territorial or political autonomy or to the freedom of Serbs in that area, which was tied to some Germans and some Hungarians, Mr. Canak. As then, even today, autonomists are not Hungarians, Slovaks or others, but Serbs who rely politically on international community intervention...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13304	Time, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13305	I apologize, Chairman, only two more sentences. ... rely on international community intervention to achieve their ultimate goal, which is internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue. It is, for example, a two-home assembly, as proof of your separatism, in a document given by Mr. Academyman Fira, it is, for example, your today numbering of the constituent peoples of Vojvodina, and there is no political movement, nor any historical fact based on which anyone other than Serbs, in these areas, could talk about the constitutionality of the state of Serbia, in any part of it, or in Vojvodina. So, Mr. Chanak, you are a separatist and your party is separatist in its essence. I just want to say one more thing, that if I didn't have to, I wouldn't answer again. Gentlemen, for all of us, Duke, the worst thing that can take us is that the autonomy of the Vojvodina and the need to realise autonomy represent Nenad Canak. Why? Because he does it in such a gruesome way that everyone thinks that Vojvodina and its autonomy are evil. That is why I call on all political forces in Serbia to take the issue of Vojvodina autonomy out of the hands of autonomists. So, gentlemen of the government, call the country's elections as soon as possible, to get rid of, here, to quote Mr. Chank, only in the dictionary, not in the mental context, of this evil that happened to Vojvodina, and it's called the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13306	Minister Dragan Sutanovac has the word, so you, counterpart Canak, will be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13307	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would really like to ask you to discuss the law. I don't think this kind of debate leads to any solution. The SPS's views are well known, Mr. Canak. We're not going to come up with any solution. If you want, please respect our request to return to the laws and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13308	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13309	I fully agree with Mr. Minister that the issue of passing this law is of paramount importance, but it is also very important to know the environment in which these laws are passed, so that we have awareness of the possibility or the inability to apply them. The Social Democratic League's amendment to Vojvodina, with interventions to mark individual units of the Serbian Army, is based on the authority of the president of the Republic of Serbia. So it wouldn't be done by any regional authorities, it would be done by the president of the state. By the way, any story about separatism is completely pointless. I don't want to argue with Mr. Bayatovic anymore, but I have to say something about this internationalization of the Vojvodina issue. The only internationalisation done in Serbia's territory was when a party whose member, Mr. Bajatovic, lost the war with the entire planet, and signed a capitulation on the part of Serbia's territory, which is completely counter-constitutional, and thus made an act of high treason. But what do I do? History will judge if there's no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13310	National MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13311	It was far removed from this congregation when Dragan Sutanovac was in it a voice of conscience and a mediator of goodwill. Don't be angry, Mr. Minister, you're famous as a fighter and in your own party and beyond. If we don't agree on everything, my God. I just want to say the following about this controversy with Mr. Chanka. It's underestimating what Mr. Canak is doing in Vojvodina by the current government. So, we have institutionalized separatism, which is characterized by those who participate in their projects and prejudge what the new Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina should look like, in fact, want to provide as much space as possible for their separatistism. I will remind you, first of all, that the first post-five-octobar offensive was between 2001 and 2003, when your late shooting Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, I must admit, a skilled political maneuver, brought the autonomists down to the omnibus, and it's a lot to them. Now, due to the weakness of the central government, its disunity, its feud by the ministries and political disagreements over basic national, state, economic and social views, the autonomous option in Vojvodina has estimated that it is the right time for a new autonomous offensive. That's what this is all about, and that's why Mr. Canak here is arguing with me. If I can just talk about the amendment, Mr. Chairman, since our parliamentary group has ten minutes left, and it's about these special tags in the regions. You know what that would look like. Now let's imagine here, those who are in Shumadia, our soldiers, all of them should have tails and, probably, they're pecking some stakes, and these Lale are going to play some other game in Vojvodina, those in southern Serbia, and all of these are supposed to be regions; these in Sandzak are also going to suck up some of their games. I guess by folklore, we should distinguish the units of the Serbian Army. No, this is the state of Serbia. He can think who he wants, the old communists, whatever they were, they had a serious state. The military, among other things, even when it is not used in internal affairs, as the Ojah Guard, who gets combat ammunition in case, say, blacks or some dissatisfaction with the American system goes to the streets, the Serbian Army secures the unity of the state, defends its territorial integrity and everything else written in the Constitution, that I am not playing some smart-ass now. The army should differ in rank, gender, and whether it works for the benefit of the people and the state, or its purpose is to preserve power. We can discuss this, the history of the existence of various armies of Serbians, one way or another.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13312	Excuse me, Mr. Bayatovic, so you're using seven more minutes as a group, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13313	Yeah, I said I was talking about the amendment. You took 15 seconds from me. I won't be long. So, please, this is just a seemingly funny amendment, but it talks about the tenacity and continuity of the idea to make everything that's done, and can be said, unserious. This amendment is inconclusive and it is aimed at opening such debates as we had today, Mr. Canak and I, because Mr. Autonomists have the following idea – the more autonomous projects we promote, the less Serbs, this will, on purpose, say not to offend Serbs in Vojvodina, but one number of our people, members of our people, would really rather watch Vienna and Budapest than Belgrade, and it is historicly so, so co-founded autonomouss. This is just one of the tactical moves of well-organised autonomists to unearth everything that the state of Serbia needs to make serious, well-founded, strong, unique and everything else. I know that some people seem to be unserious, but believe me, they have very good allies, they have money, they have support and they know what they're doing, and we are inclined to be the only state center in Serbia, and that we can talk about everything else, we should put our finger on the head and think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13314	On the amendment, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13315	To be more specific, ladies and gentlemen, about the explanations. Unfortunately, there is no possibility of you reporting for reasons, so I called about the amendment. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the DS, I don't know if you've had the chance to see the government's explanation and to see if, through such an explanation, you as a party, and as a minister, you can cross over. I don't know by what rules, by which law soldiers can bear any mark, except by gender, a working uniform, a formal uniform, by rank, that I don't list everything, that you mark the soldiers from which they're from. Is this, Mr. Minister, at some further stage, the possibility of marking ourselves by nationality, so that we mark ourselves by faith, so that we mark ourselves by some proclivities, because that, in the end of the line, has led to absurdity? Really, I'm asking the Democratic Party, is she behind this kind of reasoning? Mr. Minister, I'm not talking about the amendment at all, I'm talking about the explanation, I said at first, that's two different things. In general, who wrote such an explanation – members of the Serbian Army from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina have the right to wear a badge with the markings of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina? (From the city, Hope Kolundji: That's what Chanak wrote, that's his explanation. I'm sorry, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13316	Thank you. He has a word on the subject of the amendment, MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13317	Thank you very much. Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, yesterday, when I left this pay phone, the minister asked me to publicly announce the names of the people I know are too early whether they retired or left before the law required them from the service. I suggested we deliver that list to you, and he insisted that I do it from the pay phone. I didn't do it yesterday because I wanted to ask these people that I'm about to mention. Since part of them gave me permission to do this, here, I'll do it. So, the list of officers retired in late 2006 and early 2007, this list is just part of the people, officers, actually, from the Novosad Corps. I didn't go any further, but you'll see there's plenty of it. So, Generals Matijević Stanimir, Mandić Milos; Colonels Cvvjetjanin Milos, Ristić Veselin, Kovac Aleksandar, Petrovic Ljubisa, Damjanović Zoran, Šukunda Ratko, Milanović Jelenko. Not to read any further, it's big, it's an even longer list of colonels, especially senior officers. None of these people have met any of the legal conditions for regular retirement, therefore, each of them remained able to press charges against those who did. Yesterday, I was saying this, that the Department of Defense would find a way and, at least, to have a conversation with people, part of these people I really know, these are the honorable people, who the state could have called for the most difficult jobs, the jobs of defense, so that it wouldn't have been unfairly completed, and because of the fact that young people still come to us and go to those schools, to become officers. It was the only motive I was saying it for. This law, or these two laws we're talking about these days, I feel like a guarantee, I want these laws to be a guarantee that no one else in the Republic of Serbia, God forbid, experience a war night, that no one in this country ever digs trenches in front of their homes, or anything else. I must confess to seeing great meaning in these laws, and we will surely support them. As far as this amendment is concerned, the other League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina was not in charge when she suggested that, apart from the symbols of the Serbian Army, those who wanted to put it and the symbol of regionality should be allowed. Why do we propose that? We accept that individuals want to promote their views through the amendments, through this debate, but don't you think that a part of the young people, in this very opportunity to mark where they are from, no matter what part of the Republic of Serbia, could find a reason more to go and do their duty of honor, or serve an army or military time in Serbia. Finally, I am interested in the opinion of counterpart Ratkovic of the announced stands in Hrtkovci tonight. It's about promoting the latest book by Professor Vojislav Seselj, whose name I don't want to mention from here, but doesn't it seem to you, Mr Ratkovic, that it's some kind of a return to the crime scene? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13318	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is from the Prophet of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting to member 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am under the obligation, as a People's MP, to inform the other MPs, so that they can normally perform their duties, i.e. that they're working today. That's what we've talked about before, we Serbian Radical Party MPs. One part of the day, every Friday, we don't attend in large numbers in this room because on Fridays at 12:00 we have a session of the Executive Board of the Party. We have brought the Executive Board's meeting together with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that MPs can also attend Parliament's work. However, unfortunately, given the fact that we no longer know which day and at which time, past the Rules of Procedure, this Parliament is working, we have been absent in a large number of times today. For the sake of the public, and for the sake of the MPs, that citizens do not worry that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are tired of the parliamentary work, I must say that this afternoon, from this very moment to the end of the work day, there will be quite a small number of Members present in the hall, not because we are tired of the assembly work, but because today we have one very important task and one very important event for all of Serbia, of course, and for the Serbian Radical Party. Today, at 18 o'clock, in the Krtkovci, all of us who are not here will attend the big promotion, the big event of the promotion of Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13320	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what makes the hamsters significant? Exactly, it is a crime scene, and that is to be said publicly, the crime scene committed by the West, that is, the United States and the European Union. They tried to create an affair and accuse the victim of the crimes they committed. Events in Krtkovci begin when Serbs are mass exorcised from Croatian cities. That was significant before Storm, it was 1991, 1992 and 1990. Among other things, you have in the United Nations report that more than 250,000 Serbs have been expelled from Croatia, from the cities. When they set out to seek a new home, because they had no survival in Croatia, then, with the help of the Roman Catholic Church, with the active role of Catholic priests, they set out to exchange Serbian property in Croatia for Croatian property in Hrtkovci. We come to the indisputable fact that any such property was replaced by multiple Serb damage. I'll tell you just one example. The man who traded his property for Serbian property in Croatia, in the town of Sibenik, returned to his house a few months ago, bought from the one he switched with, gave 30,000 euros, sold the property he traded here with a Serb and earned more than 250,000 euros. That's why the hamsters are extremely important. The hamsters are the place where the victim should be declared a criminal and answer. Thanks to Vojislav Seselj, thanks to Vojislav Seselj's defense team, we have collected all the data, systematized and explained everyone's role in the criminal enterprise. Those who are interested in getting to the truth can take and read the book, will see that from the first, or the front page, to the last cover, everything is true. Unfortunately, in this criminal enterprise, the hardest and most harmful role was played by individuals from the Serb people, who took part in the service of Serb enemies for money. That's why they got an adequate name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13322	Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Bojan Milovanovic and Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I will briefly read the matter. Our proposal is to add a new position 3, which reads: "The mobilisation of the Serbian Army is carried out in the event of a war or emergency". What is the intensity of our amendment? In our explanation, we said that Article 99(5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that only the Serbian Parliament declares war and emergency and, in Article 105(2), to declare and abolish the state of emergency. Those constitutional provisions also give rise to the obligation to regulate the law in which the cases are mobilised. I must tell you, although you have stated in your explanation that in point 1 you have determined when the mobilization is carried out, if you read a more careful position 1, he says – by mobilization, the Serbian Army from the peace organisation and the situation moves on to a war organisation and state of preparedness and operational readiness to carry out missions and tasks. As a task and as such an idea, we do not dispute this provision. Whether or not we're going to dispute this word - a mission, it's not the subject of this amendment, to discuss it. We don't argue at all that you've really guessed what's going on with the state of the military. However, we proposed an amendment when the military was mobilised. You, in your explanation for the refusal of this amendment, have replied that mobilization refers to the transition to wartime status and alertness. We don't argue with that argument either, and we really think it's a perfectly logical explanation, but not for this attitude. We can come to a hypothetical situation, that the President, the Minister, the Chief of Staff, supports one political option, and the Assembly makes a decision on the declaration of war. The political party that has all these functions does not support the parliament's decision, voting against it. Can we then expect that in the case of such a decision by the Assembly, the people who are at the head of the state, headed by the Ministry, at the head of the General Staff, we will not declare war? I ask you to think carefully about what we say. We want to ensure ourselves by this attitude 3, and I think that by introducing it into this member of the law, absolutely, it would avoid the possibility of someone, in the event of a declaration of war and emergency, under Articles 200 and 201. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of Article 99 of the same constitution, has deafened the Assembly's decision. In order to allow others to say something, I hope that, on the day you declare your amendments, you will consider what we, on behalf of the SPS and the Serbian Veterans Movement, have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13324	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Rajko Baralic and Dusan Bajatovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has adopted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13325	To Article 39, MP Dragan Colic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, submitted an amendment to add, after point 1), point 2): "that he served a military term under arms". So the 39th member defines admission as a professional military service. Mr. Minister, I haven't asked you a question yet. I don't know what it means to throw it out of a woman's place, because here, in the explanation of Article 39, I don't know if you wrote it or if you wrote it or if someone else, you can't see anywhere in these five items that these conditions apply equally to both women and men. We didn't ask you that question, Mr. Minister, we asked that Article 2 be inserted after Article 1, that for the person seeking admission to the professional military service be the condition that he served a military term under arms. Your argument does not make any difference, Mr. Minister, with the amendment of MP Dragan Colic. What do you say in your explanation? The amendment is not accepted, given that Article 39 is accepted. The draft law prescribes general reception conditions for the professional military service, which, in accordance with Article 11. The bill of law equally applies to both women and men. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, what does that mean - equal relations? You think because the amendment reads that he served his military time under arms, that that's why they're not equal, that's because they don't apply to both women and men. What's interesting and what can be seen in your relationship with one law and another, is that you've defended yourself with so far silence. You didn't go out, but you throw it out of place and you say, "This can't, this can't, this isn't right." You need to come out and say why the amendment isn't good, what's the point. You want to admit to professional military service someone who didn't have military training, who carried arms, who didn't undergo any tactical training, and by your organization will become a professional soldier. How can someone who hasn't had days of tactical training, who hasn't seen guns become a professional in the professional military service, and tomorrow has to take in young soldiers and go through that training with them? Is that how you, Mr. Minister, imagine the defense at all, that tomorrow, at the head of all these command bodies, some services that will be professionals, will be some who haven't served a military deadline, who haven't had any training for days, who don't know what a weapon is at all? By that principle, you have founded the defense of our country. I doubt that you wrote this, since I know you well from the Starstar, I know that you're a piece from the Starstar, I think Mr. Krasic was right when he told you that you weren't behind this, certainly, that there are no professionals from the Army behind this, that someone wrote it to bring the military system down even more. It's impossible, you can't explain, because this amendment doesn't make sense. Imagine tomorrow anyone who has not served a military term, to receive it according to these criteria that you have written and that tomorrow, as a professional, in the military service, they are assigned to lead a platoon, to command somewhere – who will he command? Where, in the theater, in the library, where he was changing diapers? So you're going to be in a position to, conditionally, who's close to you, so he's not in a position to get to work, so you hire them, and then you're going to put them in, and they're really going to be real professionals in the Army. I don't think your argument makes any sense, because you answer to article 11. It's true that article 11 says what you said. But you can't say that the bill applies equally to women and men. If you want to admit someone to a professional military service, he needs to do something professional tomorrow, command someone, do something. And in doing so, you do not respect the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Colic – that someone must have served a military term under arms. So you can't take someone like that, he was serving, he was raising a curtain in the theater, he was somewhere in the museum, and now, all of a sudden, he's becoming a professional. Mr. Minister, as much as we try to improve these amendments to our law, you've been sitting in the O.R. the whole time, you haven't been able to come out and say that the amendments we're making don't make any sense, no matter how bad, disastrous the law is. Practically, everything that has been done since the time of Boris Tadic, from Davinic, to you, you, for the past seven years, have been what fellow MPs have been saying, honest and honest people who worked in the military, who have no stain in their working life before they retired. I wish they had met some conditions, so let's just say it's normal for a man to retire. You put them away, wiped them out, never gave them a chance to finish their working century - colonels, colonels, generals. Did they work dishonestly? Did you find for any of them that he was making malfeasance, doing damage to the state, doing damage to the military, that you prosecuted him for it, that you punished him for it? Then you'd be a true minister. You've found the simplest solution: you've fired them, you've sent them away before retirement, you've removed them from the Army, you've removed them from the eyes of the public, so that these people don't have a chance to bring out anything. The other day you had a chance to hear from your colleague Krasic about the famous "Satellite" affair. From Davinic, to say that for over a year, there were no affairs related to the military. You haven't solved anything since that "Satellite" affair. What about Satellite, who's paying for it, what's going on? After that, you replace the people of this commission, you retire them. Mr Krasic told you exactly, the name and last name, which are people. You took, so, as planned by the budget for the procurement of telecommunications equipment, 900 million, and you did a job of 3 billion and 900 million. Is it possible that in this budget, it was a proposal to adopt it in this period, it wasn't planned for those three billion, so that the budget was withdrawn until you agree to the views, so let's find in the budget another three billion to be spent, and then the budget comes back again? I'll tell you, Mr. Sutanovac, if you're interested, since you were a councilman in the same assembly, only at the beginning, when you resigned both in the City Assembly and in the Municipality of Starship. Mr. Radulovic knows me well, so it's not a problem. To that question, Mr. Krasic, you have been silent. If it is not true what Mr Krasic said, as a serious, responsible man, minister, gentleman of years, you should have come out and said – Mr Krasic, what was signed on my part, I signed it, I did not know, I was mistaken, this Filipovic did not inform me well, it was that I knew him from the SDPR, but apparently he misinformed me. So you can't defend yourself as a minister with silence, if that's how you think you're defending the state... You're attacking me? I'm not attacking you, Mr. Minister. I address the public, MPs and citizens of Serbia. What would I defend myself for? I don't know why you're dumping me, Mr. Minister. I have no reason to do this with you. Please, Mr. Vice President, protect me from the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13326	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13327	The minister throws all the time, makes me nervous, confuses me, I don't know where I am. Since I have enough time, now I have to repeat, for the sake of the MPs, for the sake of the public, to hear what this is all about. Mr. Minister, you're not going to distract me. You didn't make it to the Starship Community when you did the same thing. Yes, we've replaced you with the president in seven days. () Yes, you've replaced the president in seven days – good for you. If you did as you did in the Municipality of Zvezda, as the elections will be very soon, and the citizens have had the opportunity to see how you work in the Municipality of Starship, how you work in all of Serbia, I hope that in the new elections, the citizens will decide who will lead this country, who will lead this army, who will be responsible for all the great affairs you've had, for not doing anything in seven years. The military affair was over, but you, as minister, had to clear it up. When you take over the appropriate ministry, and you have the knowledge that I was an assistant minister or someone in that ministry, it doesn't matter what I'm from G 17 plus or from another party, you have to clear that up. Because that's the burden you're carrying, so you've taken over all of it. Therefore, Mr. Minister, what is your law, how you behave, if it defends Serbia, the Serbian people and the Serbian citizens, as the people say, we have robbed Bosnia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13328	Thank you, fellow Stupar. The amendment is referred to by MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13329	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, my colleague Dusan Stupar has submitted a very similar amendment, not the same text, but I will try to explain. So, in the amendment that I submitted to Article 39, point 6 is added to the existing article – that he served a military term under arms.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13330	My colleague, please talk about my colleague Colic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13331	That is the problem, Mr. Chairman, because my amendment, according to the report, went before that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13332	You have after that, too, your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13333	I have two amendments, but it's an amendment to Article 39.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13334	So we're talking about an amendment to Dragan Cholic today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13335	No, I'm talking about my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13336	Wait, then we'll move on to the next one, just a second, and I'll give you your time back. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Milovanovic, Rajko Baralic and Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, buddy, I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13337	In Article 39(1) after point 5), a new point 6 is added, which says he served a military term under arms. I'm going to try to get involved in the exposure of my distinguished colleague Dusan Stupar – why the Socialists think this won't bother if it says so. I don't like the explanation that puts gender equality as a central question. So, the explanation is, "Amendment is not accepted, given that Article 39 is accepted. The draft law prescribes general reception conditions for the professional military service, which, in accordance with Article 11. The bill applies equally to men and women who are not obliged to serve the military deadline, so the adoption of the amendment would violate the principle of gender equality." I don't think that's the happiest way, or, specifically, gender equality here doesn't have any specific touch points with the essence of the amendment. The point is, at least, people who have accepted the possibility of serving a military term are privileged in some way. It is true that respected ladies need to find the same opportunities, but I think there was a way to allow special regulations or otherwise allow women's sex to find places in Serbia's military. A more logical explanation would be that tomorrow, at a professional service in the military, a person can be found, e.g. A disabled person, in the same conditions as anyone who can find a place under the sun tomorrow, and we know that today in Serbia is hard to live and that tomorrow and the Army, the reformed Army, stronger the Army and richer, will certainly also represent one of the opportunities to hire someone tomorrow. Why am I saying this? We are facing today, Mr. Minister, with a double game – how today to motivate our young people to respond to the regular military service under arms. I don't see a better way than to, in any way, be motivated by the Military Act tomorrow, because many people, however difficult the weather may be, and however difficult the challenges and the political environment in which we are, traditionally, young people in Serbia today love the Army. No matter what, they are not able to accomplish today, at least as one of the privileges of serving the Army in this way tomorrow. It's one thing not to interpret it as irony, but it's really an essential question. The only thing left is that our parents, our grandfathers, based on everything we've been saying about the past of a Serb soldier, are potential, and that, believe me, is the most in those environments where the hardest lives. Today we are faced with this, regardless of what we've been hearing, that perhaps over the past year it was better than the previous years, that young people today, and I think that young people should respond to their weapons service, are in no way particularly motivated to serve the Army under arms. What I would like to underline once again, we cannot build an army in these conditions for war and an army for peace. I see that in Serbia today it is very dangerous to mention, in general, the concept of war as a term. Perhaps it would be the happiest opportunity to find such a term in this law. As soon as the war is mentioned, let's face the avalanche of accusations as well as such intervention. I consider it too high at this point, because the essence of the military's existence is the preservation of freedom, sovereignty, the territorial integrity of a country. I don't see any reason why we don't need young men as soldiers. I see the amendment has been rejected. Will that affect the government, specifically you, Mr. Minister, I'm not quite convinced. I think there could have been room for the proposal – 'if he had served military time under arms', for the simple reason it would have been a great motive and one, I won't say privilege, but what the military should respond positively, like this parliament, and the government, to people who find courage and enthusiasm, patriotism, call it whatever you want, that tomorrow they have at least a handful of advantages to find their jobs in Serbia's Army. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13338	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zlatan Jovanovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13339	Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 39, two amendments have been submitted in the same form, with one small difference, which we have put on second place in this list of conditions. The SPS parliamentary group left this as the last item on the list of these general reception conditions for the professional military service. What's this about? Article 39 prescribes general reception conditions for professional military service. Here, to read the whole article, to see what is proposed here by the promoter: "For a professional military person can be admitted to a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who meets the following general conditions: 1) that he is a full-time person; 2) that he is medically capable of serving in Serbia; 3) that he has a prescribed education; 4) that he has not previously stopped working in the state authority because of a serious breach of duty from a working relationship; 5) that he is not sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months. “ A second attitude says: “The professional military personnel are admitted to the service as needed, to the jobs prescribed by the formation. ” Here is the question, first of all, which person does this member refer to? Does this apply to those persons who go to military schools, high school and the Military Academy, or to citizens who are subsequently admitted after schooling and received according to the needs of the military in the professional military service? Article 8 The bill stipulates who are professional military personnel, which is an officer, a senior officer and a professional soldier. Also, Article 9, in the last position, it is said – a professional soldier is the person who has the least basic education, who served military service under arms or is otherwise trained in military training and who is in working terms for a certain period of time in order to carry out military duties. It is already specified here that a professional soldier must be a person who has completed military training under arms. Therefore, Article 39 refers to officers and sub-offices who are admitted from the public to professional military service. It is incomprehensible for us to accept a citizen's face for an officer who has not served a military term under arms. Regardless of the reasons you gave when you refused this amendment, to regulate these and the rights of women who, too, can compete in these places, could be arranged by special conditions or a little different terms in this article, that here in the law, in general terms, we have an obligation for members of the male sexes, that they must be served with a military obligation under arms, if they apply to the post of sub-office, or officer. What else isn't clear here? There's no mention of a competition. Are these faces received through competitions, or are some other way that these persons will be admitted to professional military service? A member of the 40th is talking about students of the Military Academy and there is, secondly, that a student of the Military Academy, on the day of graduation, is being admitted to a professional military service without competition and promoted to the rank of a supporter and from that day on becomes an officer. So, it is precisely said that the students of the Military Academy are going without a competition, but in the 39th article, there is no mention of a competition for citizens' faces, and I think those persons must only be admitted through competition, public, which is published in means of public information. Also, in Article 40, no mention of high school students, or is that school no longer there? It doesn't exist anymore. So you turned that off, too. (From the O.R.: It was abolished in 1993) Great, you shut down high school, it's gone. Since 1993? I'm not informed. Although it's inconceivable, incomprehensible, but if that's the case, then I have nothing more to add to this. I think there was room for this amendment to be accepted, that this would be specified in this Article 39, so that we wouldn't have any misunderstandings tomorrow in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13340	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to explain the amendment, just to answer the Minister a few things. Mr. Minister, the fact that you were awake in the Municipality of Starlight for seven days and nights, because they were working on telephone connections and lines, to figure out a way to replace Mr. Ljubiš Stojmirović from the function he was elected legally to, and then here you boast that in seven days you have been changed by the President of the Municipality of Zvezda, that speaks enough about you. So, you didn't replace the president of the Starship Community as DS or you as Dragan Sutanovac, you all joined together to replace one radical. That's enough talking about the power you own in the Starship Community. I don't want to talk about it anymore, I just want to answer you, because you're putting all the political factors in your ranks, which is absolutely not true. So, I filed an amendment to Article 40. For the public, of course, as always, I'll read it. It is said: "The professional military person becomes a day of entry into the service - based on the act of the competent authority, or contract. On the day of graduation, a military academy student is admitted to a professional military service without competition and is promoted to the rank of supporter and becomes an officer from that day forward. "Station 3: "The government regulates the way and conditions of admission into the professional military service, on the proposal of the defence minister. "I proposed with my amendment that an attitude be added, which reads: "A high school student is promoted to the rank of sergeant on the day of school completion and becomes a professional officer from that day forward." So, Mr. Minister, we need to get one thing straight first. Is there a military high school in Belgrade, located on Topcider Hill? There is. She has the status of high school, four years to go to school, and soldiers or high school students who signed up for military service and military service are perfected. They should be given a chance since everyone in that high school doesn't go to the military academy. We're asking a few questions. Last year, all the professional schools that the Serbian Army had, I agree with that, were closed to the Batajnica VPV, then to the infantry in Pozarevec, technical service in Krusevec, connection in Banjaca, engineering in Obrenovac, etc. Last year, I will give an example of Batajnica, of the ten sergeants who came out of that class six remained unscheduled, four received, and those six are paid because they stand as 23rd pay groups of 150 to 160 euros. What about those unscheduled sergeants, and this was their last course? How in Serbia's Army will we have sergeants if we no longer have high school? Here it is explained: "Amendment is not accepted since it is not possible to advance a professional military person who has not previously been produced in the initial act in the military during his entry into the military service. At the same time, the basis for production in the post-office act is completed specialist education. "What special education do we now have since this was abolished last year? Is special education in these seven centers: Sombor, Pančevo, Jakovo, Kruševac, Leskovac, Valjevo and Zaječar, where are the soldiers who are on regular military time? What are the professional high schools now, military, that some candidate must finish in order to be a sergeant in Serbia's Army? Let's open up that little question about how after this law, you become a sergeant. With the deed, if a soldier received the rank of corporal within the military deadline, he would like to remain as an officer in the military after a certain period of time and receive the rank of sergeant. Why don't you give the right to people who have finished military high school to be at the beginning of an act of sergeants and to participate actively in military service? For what reason? These are educated people who went to high school for four years, had a good average. Doesn't mean everyone won't go to the military academy, doesn't mean they won't go to other colleges after that high school, but for what reason don't you give them the equality of admission to military service as senior officers? Those are questions that aren't really open. There is then a doubt that you do not want to use such personnel in the army; that such soldiers who are four years old do not need them at all. What's their status after high school if they don't enroll in the military academy, go to some other, agricultural college, forestry? What's their status in the army? Those who have completed their 11-month course, I have set an example from Batajnica, 10 of them, these six who are unscheduled are tied to the military because they are in the 23rd paying group and until they are paid, with which they cannot live, that is 150 or 160 euros. I will read only Article 7 of this law, which says "in terms of the rights and obligations governed by this law, citizens of the Republic of Serbia" which are certainly students of the high school, "students and students of military institutions who are trained in military duties and persons in other professional training for officers and sub-offices. "Mr. Minister, give us some answers to resolve this inconceivableness, to accept the reason why you did not accept this amendment and to make this argument that you wrote here even make sense. What high school is now ending in order to become a sergeant in Serbia's military? I have one more question. The disintegration of Serbia-Montenegro's alliances, from the 83rd Pomoravska (in particular, the 83rd Maritime Centre), passed over about 60 special forces, which were deployed to special brigades; at that time they were in 72nd and are now renamed and some have gone to 63. They were given the right to be called what they were called because they were inherited from that period of military service. Where did they end up, are they still in the status of specialized units, what are their receipts? By discussing Mrs. Verice Radete's amendment here, we have come to the conclusion that special forces can be hired by non-military people. We have a problem here that 60 people have come, that they've been deployed somewhere in some holes, to fill the holes, and on the other hand we'll have a special task force to pay, hire or educate our people in those foreign countries to finish the job in case of a country's need. I just wanted to say a few things, Mr. Minister. You know very well that the Ministry has left the prize money to the commanders in certain barracks and that money is mostly divided into equal honors, mostly to the sergeants, because they are people of careers. They're aware they're not officers, they're officers. You also have those who went to the academy so they didn't finish the academy and engage in the army. Do you think it's a priority to hire a civilian in the military, to become a sergeant by being hired by a relative, a friend, a best man, one or one to give him that privilege, to advance him through those ties and thus keep him in a position where he doesn't have to be educated enough to lead a unit? This is particularly not good when we have a situation like this that is being prepared for Serbia, and it is Kosovo and Metohija. I suggest you accept this amendment in order to put an equal position on the part of the officer, officers and people who have been educated for four years, who have lost four years learning something about the army, without the right to enroll in the academy, without possibility, without desire. It's hard to convince every soldier, because of the conditions in the military, to stay and to extend his engagement in the army for a certain amount of money, especially in the territory he's not from, but it's a standard case and it's rare for someone to serve in the area where he grew up and where he lives. So, I suggest you accept this amendment that I have proposed on behalf of the SRS, because I wrote nicely in the explanation that the promoter did not foresee the situation of the graduate high school graduates in the active military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13342	Thank you, colleague Avramovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Ambassador Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13343	Dear fellow MPs, I will try to make a contribution to the amendment submitted by counterpart Milan Avramovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club. Our request was to add paragraph 2 to Article 40. Just what Mr. Avramovic asked earlier, Mr. Minister, do you have any idea how many high school students are enrolled in military school? Do you have any knowledge of those people who went to military high school, how many of them didn't continue studying? Do you have any knowledge, Mr. Minister, which of these men didn't go to the academy? Why don't you listen, don't make a proposal to your MP group to accept this amendment in the voting day? For four years, the state invested in the education of young people who decided to go to that military high school. One of them, after all the training, realizes that he can't go to the military academy. Instead of using what we trained him, what we trained him, to get him into the army, to become a professional in the military, to get his rank, you don't even want to consider this amendment. In your explanation, you say – the basis for production in the post-office act is completed specialist education after the completion of the secondary professional military school. On the one hand, we suggest that after a military school, anyone who hasn't defined himself to go to the academy can get the rank of sergeant and become a professional officer. It's been four years since they went to that school? After that, you'll be giving them an extra course. Are they supposed to go to Ohio or the famous centers where you went to school? Imagine going to that high school for four years and finishing up, and you say, it's a little four years that you've been going, you have to take a short course. Is it perhaps a course from democracy, from what you just threw at me during my speech? Seven days, he says, I should have replaced you with the Starstar. Mr. Secretary, the next election won't take us seven days, but I guarantee all Starlight citizens... You've been in power for seventeen years on Starry, in various options, and with the DSS, with those who voted against your candidate. Then you're back in love, like an unbelieving bride when she comes home, and you say, "Dear, it's a good thing you're here, you're forgiven." What brought you together here? Same interest, same as all these jobs. I claim that after our authority arrives on the Starboard, all the affairs, any renovations, donations from the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, anything, will come out; we will announce to the citizens of the Stars how you have made them sick in those seven days. You've been writing these laws for seven days. Was this Mr. Lawman of the Agricultural Cooperative helping, as Mr. Krasic said? Don't, seven days, it's not right. Seven days you've been a councilman on Starlight and I don't think you'll ever be again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13344	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13345	I'll be brief. I don't want to go into these local Stargazer duels. I'm from New Belgrade. There are a lot of people in the assembly who are from New Belgrade, so I don't want to spread the subject, it would be a long topic. I am reporting on the amendment of the distinguished colleague Milan Avramovic to Article 40. The proposal for a law on Serbia's military that reads: "Article 40 after Article 2 adds a new position that reads: A high school student is promoted to the rank of sergeant on the day of completion of schooling and becomes a professional deputy from that day forward. "Extremely well done is the amendment, because it is believed that when it comes to high school military, a secondary expert prepares, that there would be the first act to be given as an act of guide, which is quite normal, chronologically arranged. But you didn't in law answer whether professional soldiers trained in high school for automation are employed or there's something else to be done. According to what we have seen in your explanation: "Amendment is not accepted since it is not possible to advance a professional military person who has not previously been produced in the initial act in the military at the time of admission to the military service. At the same time, the basis for production in the post-office is completed specialist education after the completion of the secondary professional military school. "It writes -- at the end of the secondary professional military school, which means it has already been defined for its part of the profession, whether it will be artillery, connections, PSC and other technical units within the middle military school. If he'd gone to the Academy, he'd be an officer, he wouldn't be an officer. Mr. Minister, I'm asking a question - what kind of specialist education is it for them? If we went to some specialist education, then they'd have to get some major rank. This is the initial act of producing it as a guide, which is quite normal after finishing high school, yet it is enough professional education for that act. If they wanted to go to the first act, the lieutenant, they'd go to the military academy. Speaking of these specialists, I'm not calling you Garmispartikirhen or Marshall's plan, if that's what these specializations are, we're against it. I'm going to ask you a specific question, and you're being addressed to this problem. Mr. Radic Srbobran, retired officer, in 2006 with 30 years of service, who spent his entire working life in the 63nd and 72nd Special Brigade, completed all these specialist studies; a university where he wanted to master your office of the Ministry of Defence, No. 772/1 of 18. Nine. In 2007, with a request to enable him to have insight into documents for the production of master's work on the subject of the specificity of plans and training programmes of the Serbian Army's special units that are in the interest of our army. A negative answer was received from, I think your assistant, Dr Dimitrijevic, who is in charge of human resources with you, under number 1472-2 of 28. Nine. 2007 You're familiar with this subject. He was rejected on the grounds that according to the Military Secrets Policy, someone who wants to do specific master's or doctoral work is entitled to documents, has no right to copy and everything else. I'm asking a question -- if he's been working on these tasks for 30 years, and he is, and you're familiar with who it's about, what's left for him as a secret? What he specifically needed... And we're interested in getting more personnel, no matter if someone's retired or not, their professional work will help you as a minister. What you said to him, this is not top secret, this belongs to the domain of internal secrets. I'm interested in what kind of documentation is and whether the documentation is submitted every month to the OSCE, whether it's documentation delivered by the OSCE Ministry of the Army under a veil, under the code "strictly confidential", or whether it's internal secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13346	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13347	Ladies and gentlemen, although the amendment has been accepted, I must speak to you with a few words. I proved today in article 19, so on one case, that the Minister and the team of the Ministry didn't even read this law and, behold, this is now another proof that they didn't even read it. In Article 42, first and third terms are two conditions to be excluded. In the first position, it is said about the admission into the professional military service of a citizen and says that persons are admitted to this service for a certain period of up to three years, and in the third position of the same member, the contract on work is concluded for a certain period of three years. So these two attitudes are excluded, these two provisions. Of course, I intervened there, so it's accepted and that's good. Besides, we've got a couple more complaints here. I said in the principle debate, I don't understand this contract that's being mentioned here, which is being concluded with the person who enters the professional military service. Why isn't this article a little closer to the law than professional military obligations when it comes to military service? That's when I said we had examples, and I mentioned exactly when it happened, an example of a third battalion of military police in Nis in 1998, when soldiers, or police officers, were contracted after orders to go to Kosovo and broke their contracts; 90% of the units broke their contracts and we were out of units. If it is the urgency that the Serbian Army is professionalised and this is how it is done, some contracts that do not commit persons who come into the military service, then we will have big problems. I know the minister's answer, if there is one at all, will be that those obligations will be regulated by the contract, probably. However, I don't think that's enough, I think it would be much smarter to define these obligations or some firm guarantee that professional soldiers, officers and officers who come into the professional military service under contract will not leave the military service, or break contracts when there is a first threat from some possible military action that may have unwanted consequences. Also, I think it's a little bit controversial that here in the third position it is predicted that professional soldiers can remain in service in the Serbian Army until the age of 40, and officers can remain in service until 45. I think it's a little longer for soldiers, but a 40-year-old soldier can't physically be able to respond to all the tasks that are being put before him. I think it took a little bit of getting this line down, so it could be up to 35. You used to be so-called. Partisan units were up to 35 years old, and I think it's something that's optimal, yet with the age of our abilities are slowly but unwittingly diminishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13348	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13349	Dear colleagues, our army was once a powerful military armed force, respected and respected by all military experts and analysts in the environment and beyond, with highly trained operational and combat units and highly trained both officers and senior officers. Had we not had such an army, Serbia would have been trampled by an occupation NATO boot in the late 1990s. At the time, it was an honor for young men to serve their country and their people for military service; even those who for health reasons could not get past the health commission sought various connections and ties to serve a military term, because it is very important for the local environment in which these young people live. Today, seven years after the coup revolution, where DOS has taken over all systems that have national value, and DOS is mostly headed by DS and DSS, the military is on the verge of breaking. Boris Tadic was the first man from the DS to have had the task. He systematically destroyed tactical units and removed capable, patriotically defined officers who proved themselves in the war against NATO activists. His successor, Davinic, continued on that path, or was the same as their employer. You, Mr. Minister, have been given this place to strike the final blow of the Serbian Army by destroying what yours started, i.e. The Serbian Army's security system. And through this law, you transfer everything under military control to Boris Tadic and to you. But I will return to the amendment to Article 44. The proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, and in order to clarify the definition of a member of the already mentioned law. The 44th is an integral part of the chapter that regulates Serbia's military service, in four parts: Serbia's Army, mobilization, professional military service reception, and the fourth part regulates translation into second generation, or service, there is thought of officers and officers. A member of the 44th law mentioned just regulated admission to professional military service. It reads, quotes: "In the capacity of a professional soldier in Serbia's military service, a person is admitted for a certain time, provided that, in addition to the general conditions for admission into the professional military service, special conditions are met. "As a quoted member of this law can conclude that this proposal has not been defined to the end, so a question is raised by the authority that brings these special conditions for the admission of professional soldiers into the military service. So on behalf of the SRS, I propose that a new position be added after this attitude 1: "Special conditions of the previous position are brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "This way we do not leave space to mention a member interpreted in one way or another, i.e. as to whom it suits. I am convinced that the minister will accept this amendment as an integral part of Article 44. A bill on the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13350	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Nikola Savic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Army, item 1. I need to read this first attitude, to make it clearer. He says - Serbia's service as a professional military figure may, regardless of the prescribed conditions regarding years of life, if the needs of the service require it, be accepted without public competition by a civilian person to serve in the Serbian Army and a civil servant and a deputy employee at the Ministry of Defence. My amendment provides that, instead of saying "independence of the prescribed conditions regarding years of life", it should read: "in accordance with the special conditions laid down in Article 44 of this Law". For what? It can be seen from a member of this law that this law is not written according to the real needs of the military, but, above all, that it is written according to the needs and archaics of the President of the Republic and of the Minister, means those who are responsible for commanding the Army. So it wasn't the primary real needs of the service here, it was the primary real needs of the party and the party personnel to be housed and arrested in some way. But unfortunately, your authority is such that you experience power in a way that you must first and foremost satisfy your personal interests and interests of the party to which you belong. Speaking of this, I must admit that we radicals also care about the interests of our Serbian Radical Party, but, of course, we care most about the interests of the people and the state to which we belong. You exercise power by barricaded yourself in your ministries, and we know that each party runs a particular ministry and each ministry in some way represents a particular enclave in which you rule. I believe that the army is above all that, and that at least you could spare the army of Serbia from such party interests. In this article, it turns out that all Serbian citizens are not equal under the law. Why are state officials, officials and deputies favoring ordinary citizens of Serbia? I don't see any need for that. This member of the law can be interpreted so that, as people without competition are accepted, someone who is not a Serbian citizen can be admitted to the Army of Serbia. Of course, here, above all, I think of those who are citizens of the NATO Pact member states, who may wish tomorrow to be official advisors to someone at the Ministry of Defense. When I mentioned a NATO pact, Mr. Minister, I have several serious questions for you, in the form of a parliamentary matter, and I would ask the services to treat this and ask for an official answer. It is known that there is an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the city of Nis to give the city four barracks for use. It's about the barracks "Philip Kljajic", "Pantelj", "Buban heroes" and "Stevan Sidelic". According to information I have, this agreement will exclude the "Philip Kljajic" barracks and part of the "Pantelius" barracks. It is known that the airport was badly injured during NATO aggression and that several years ago it was renewed thanks to the Norwegian government's highest donation, although even a large portion of the Nis budget is separate for these purposes. There is now talk of a reconstruction of the airport, and the reconstruction will, above all, refer to the extension of the runway and the modernisation of the equipment at the airport. I ask you, this was an introduction, now it's a question for you, is all this done in the function of stationing NATO troops in the town of Nis, since it is known that Nis is a geographical centre of the Balkans and that it is a strategically important point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13352	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13353	The MP of the SRS, Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted the amendment to Article 45(4). The bill, which reads: "The government, on a proposal from the defence minister, regulates the conditions and procedure of admission in the service of the person referred to in Articles 1 to 3 of this article". This is the text of Article 4(4). It's a bill of law. National MP Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic seeks his amendment that instead of "1st to 3." It should stand – 2nd and 3rd of this article. Why? Mr Sutanovac, if we say that the 44th rule is that, as a professional soldier in the service of the Serbian Army, a person is received for a specified time, etc., which meets specific conditions, the SRS MP has submitted an amendment that these special conditions are predicted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because if we are referring to certain special conditions, and we do not know where they are, where they are written, what are the special conditions, we are referring to that it would be appropriate for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prescribe these special conditions and to be the rule of acceptance. In his four positions, article 45 discusses different conditions for the admission of a person into the service of the Serbian Army. Thus, Mr Nikola Savic requested that instead of certain words, the words "in line with special conditions" under Article 44 of this Law, which is fine, although not in Article 44. The bill to provide for these special conditions is passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which should. Because why would certain individuals be privileged civilians compared to other citizens? As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, Mr. Minister, I can also assume that I understand someone who wrote this bill, and you, Mr. Minister as a man, as a minister, as a citizen who seeks certain solutions regarding the reception to be rotated within the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence between civil persons, professional persons, or soldiers, civil servants and deputies, and not to receive new workers, to perform a certain redistribution within the existing number of workers. I suppose and I believe that was your goal. It's okay, it's not at all controversial, but we in the SRS are really asking that all be in the same position, not to favour certain persons, although they are in a working relationship with the Ministry of Defence or with the Serbian Army. That's exactly what I'm telling you, here's the attitude of Article 45, and Articles 2 and 3. The bill left no amendments to the SRS MPs. Why? Because we accept your solution to redistribute existing workers within the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. But that is why Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, in his amendment to article 4, 45, requested, in the light of Mr. Nikola Savic's amendment, the SRS MP from Nis, that attitude 2 be changed and special conditions anticipated. Why should it remain – independent of the prescribed conditions regarding years of life or some other conditions? If there are conditions, these conditions should apply to everything, not to create themselves from case to case. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, in what case will the provisions of Article 44 apply, and in which case will you apply the provisions of Article 45(1)? Is this an arbitrary situation and will someone, you as a defence minister or someone else, resolve it depending on some other circumstances that are less important for both the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence? What I have noticed, and in particular it may insult the magistrate of Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's right, otherwise assistant at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, is an explanation of the government that rejects Mr. Alexander Martinovic's amendment, where it is said: "The amendment is not accepted since Article 45(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is rejected. The bill fully regulates the conditions and procedures of admission to the service of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence without a public competition. "Mr. Minister, look at the position of this member's fourth member, "the government, on a proposal from the Secretary of Defense, shall regulate the conditions and procedure of admission to the service of the person referred to in Article 1 to 3. "Where are the special conditions being fully regulated? It would be correct and logical to be in Article 45(4). The bill stipulates that the government, on a proposal from the minister, regulates special conditions. That would be completely different. Mr. Minister, I give you (Mr. Chairman, this has nothing to do with the amendment) just a few sentences. The retired sub-office association has been talking lately, and I believe you know that they've filed a petition for you, too, complaining about the height of their pensions. They're moving, I say, at random, about 15,000 dinars, maybe a little bit more. They have submitted, I think, and to all parliamentary groups or individual MPs, regardless of their membership to the parliamentary group, that request. In line with the available budget for 2008, you should consider and resolve this case positively, so that the citizens' structure is in some way satisfied. Another thing about the Serbian Army, the government's programme and plan 2004, 2005 and 2006 was not envisaged to move to Nis or elsewhere in Serbia. So, it's not solved that need to move the barracks from Alexinac to somewhere else. So, the Serbian government adopted a programme in 2004, 2005 and 2006 regarding the deployment of barracks, and the barracks in Aleksinec were not planned at all. It was done I don't know whose decision it was, whose order it was, and I think it was done against the law, against the government's decision, because it's not right. And if you have time, you should deal with it in the future, because a large number of people are forced to travel from Aleksinca to Nis, and there's nowhere to be placed, nowhere to work, there's too many rooms and there's been a general problem with that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13354	According to the amendment, MP Zlatan Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13355	Ladies and gentlemen, we are still talking about professional military personnel, or officers, officers and professional soldiers who are being admitted from the public to professional military service in order to fill the command units and institutions of the Serbian Army. I just said that in article 42, this provision that speaks of years of life to which these persons may be in service is disputed. I'd support it with another argument. In fact, what happens to these people when they turn 40 as professional soldiers, or 45 as officers, or sub-offices, and they can't stay in that professional military service? What after that? We have many such persons in Serbia, people who have spent ten or more years in the army of Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, or Yugoslavia as professional soldiers, now do not meet these conditions, have to look for other jobs, and in these years, if we talk about forty years or later, it is very difficult to find any interest from whom they might live. For these reasons, I think it makes sense that this line should come down a little bit for professional soldiers for 35 years, because at 35, they have a chance to get along and find another job to survive. Article 45, which Nikola Savic tabled an amendment that he explained nicely, discusses the admission to the professional military service of the defence ministry. In fact, the first position of this member requires that persons from the Ministry of Defence are not subject to conditions in terms of years of life when they are due to move into the professional military service. This is purely discrimination. Why is there a selection? Why would anyone be privileged just because he's employed at the Department of Defense? So, if the Department of Defense wants to move into a professional military service and become an officer, an officer or a professional soldier, he can do so after forty years or forty-five years of life. That line doesn't apply to him. How is now an officer, a deputy from the Department of Defense capable of being a professional soldier after forty years of life, and a citizen's face is not capable? Pure discrimination. This is unacceptable, this is simply unacceptable, and I don't know how you could have even prescribed this. What else is more interesting, or interesting than the legal text itself? The argument the government wrote about why it did not accept Mr Nikola Savic's amendment. So, it says: "Amendment is not accepted, since Article 45 of attitude 1 provides an exception to the rules," and we have therefore submitted an amendment, as an exception is prescribed and to prevent the exception, "for the admission to Serbia's military service as a professional when the service needs require, and the same cannot be provided with regular reception. "Where is this in the text of the law? So, that you wrote in the text of the law that you cannot provide completeness in the ordinary procedure, after the competition, and that there are no interested persons, so that we accept that this is an exception, but it does not stand in the law, and you are, in reason, referring to it. That's what's wrong here. So it can't be privileged, it has to be called a contest, and this can only be an exception if no one from the public registers for the competition. Then we can say -- since we don't have a citizen's face, then we're going to accept these Ministry faces that don't meet these conditions, but we don't have a choice, and that's why we're doing it. I really don't understand why (although the minister doesn't have an O.R. right now) the promoter, or the government didn't accept these amendments when they made sense, but it's obvious that neither the Government nor the Ministry, nor the Minister, I don't already know who, are the authors of this, but that this is a warrant that has to be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13356	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13357	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary is gone, I assume he'll be back to hear this. This is an amendment to the SPS which refers to Article 61 which provides for an extraordinary promotion. It was written in one single position -- that the president of the Republic, the defence minister and the chief of staff, based on their responsibilities, can also make extraordinary improvements to professional military personnel. The amendment goes into continuance with amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia to Articles 17, 18 and 19, and also concerns members of the 56th and 57th of the law. We have, in fact, come in view of the 1st view that promotions can, in accordance with the Constitution, only be made by the President of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, in attitude 2, we want to limit the time interval at which an extraordinary improvement is being made again, and that is clearly said. Then, in paragraph 3, we want to limit how many times a military person can be extraordinaryly promoted and in attitude 4, we want to point out a deviation and all of this applies to a peacetime person, not a war formation. The aim of our amendment was to reduce the political impact of military leadership structures and to prevent the proliferation of acts based on political influences and political similarities, which is very possible today and in practice this is happening. If we start with the fact that the Chief of Staff is appointed by the President of the Republic, with the opinion of the Minister, which is regulated by Article 11. The bill of defence, which means that practically the Chief of Staff could be misused to make improvements on behalf of political leaders, the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence, in fact, to mask the political background of all of this... I ask my fellow MPs from the Democratic Party not to abuse my cell phone and to keep me from being distracted. Thank you very much. What we can see and what makes these trends possible in the military are the lack of military strategy and military doctrine, which is, unfortunately, political nature. In fact, we've already talked about that there are no basic strategic definitions, which means, first of all, to define potential enemies. Now we're asking if, for example, NATO forces can be potential enemies -- one part of the government agrees with that, and the other part cannot possibly pass through their mouths such a finding. Then there is the military's orientation towards other military alliances, where the government also has two-half -- one-half of the government wants to join NATO at all costs, even equating it with Kosovo's defence, the other half of the government is propagating just political neutrality. Then, commanding and handling the military was not clearly defined, participation in international missions, etc. As long as one political party, one political structure has a dominant impact on the military, it is certain that strategy and doctrine will be like this, and if that were the influence of the other half of the government would be different definitions, strategies and doctrines. That just means the Army is politicized maximum. What to say about the 2005 NATO troops' transit agreement, which was signed and which made many doubts in the then government in 2005, and then I mention the SOFA agreement, etc. Why are we saying this? First of all, we want to point out what the effects of the military's politicisation were. If I said so, I would first of all start with the fact that JNA was a very respectable factor not only in the Balkans, but also in Europe. Those who wanted to disintegrate JNA, as one of the main factors in the preservation of the state, had to put a lot of money into it, a lot of other efforts had to be made in this special war against JNA. The second expensive and demanding item was to find moles in that system of the military, the state, which would do exactly what the new military order wants. As for the SRJ Army and the SCG as legal follower of JNA, she was also strong. Nothing in this strategy and the doctrine had changed, only new methods had to be introduced, because these were already applied was not enough, it was obvious how strong the army was, so they had to apply sanctions, the most severe sanctions in recent history; it wasn't enough, and it had to come to bombing, and it bombed not one, not two, not five, but 17 states, because it is known that the one who attacks must be much more powerful than the one who defends. That didn't help, the Army remained strong. Why did she stay strong? Because there were a lot of soldiers present in the regular military service, a lot of reserve soldiers defending their courtyards, their cities, their families, had a strong motive. That's how the army remained undefeated. She retired herself, and Resolution 1244 was born, which certainly wouldn't have been born if the Army hadn't been so strong. Unfortunately, the military began to fail just as the DOS came to power, when NGOs of anti-militarist character entered Serbia. What's left of the Army today, unfortunately, is just a meek drawing of that army that once existed, in our time, when we served a regular military term. That it's not an empty phrase and the fact that we're running out of one kind of army, and that's the Navy. Only the remains of some river navy remain. Then, the army is decimated, unfortunately, with the intensities to become just professional. She's poorly equipped. What about that equipment, what about those guns and guns rusting in the backyards, in the abandoned barracks? What's going on with military facilities? Why are they being sold? We built 50 years and more to start decommissioning, to start the sale. What's going on with the reserve units? I was a member of such a unit called the Easy Partisan Brigade. There were two in the territory of the municipality of Negotin, and they served precisely to defend closer and further the area of the municipality of Negotin. Furthermore, the attitude of the military and the state towards associations of citizens with military character is negative, maternal, and maternal to those associations that are non-wary and even anti-militarist character. As an example of a negative relationship with military character associations, I will state and military relations to the Alliance of Military Elders, the Union of Fighters, the Association of Generals and Admirals. These are associations carrying the liquids of World War II, the liquids of millions and 700,000 victims laid down on the defender of freedom. Then, the Association of Warfighters of the 1990s... Unfortunately, the new trend is the formation of some new associations, such as the Freedom Association, which consists of military and civilian persons who were at military service and whose state owes about 15 billion dinars, on average one and a half million each. What happened? These military and civilian personnel who served the army were wrongly accounted for, no adequate application of the Government Regulation, unequal allocations. Today, we have 75,000 such requests for compensation for these people. There are over 10,000 of these requirements in the courts responsible. These people are announcing a hunger strike, but since 1 April 2008, because they respect the specific situation in which Serbia is located, because of possible events in Kosovo and Metohija. The state's attitude towards these people shows a statement by Mr. Dinkic that they can go to Strasbourg, but that it will not help them and that they will not pay them that money. Now I want to take advantage of the opportunity and ask the question of the Minister – who sold the military infirmary to Negotina and whose property was it? What will happen to the objects of an abandoned barracks, which is huge, in Negotina? Furthermore, I would like to stress that, besides the military, civil protection and territorial defense no longer exist, and yesterday I spoke of the importance and function they had in civil society. That's not all I'm saying in my mind, because yesterday's statement by an important man, after a cabinet session, says he's counting again on military pensioners, wartime military taxpayers, on the spare chamber, given the possible situation in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13358	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13359	Dear gentlemen, as far as pensions are concerned, it should be said that in the 2008 budget in particular, in the form of grants, 31.2 billion is allocated to raise pensions because there is awareness of a significant pension depression relative to earnings. So, 31.5 billion; the one-off pension increase since January is 11.5%, a one-time increase for all pensions and plus a regular increase during 2008, with a debt of 3,700 dinars to be distributed to all pensioners from 20 to 31 December 2007. I think it will significantly improve the standard of all pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13360	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradovic. This was Article 225 — giving additional information and explanations. Now you do the same, but in question form. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we Beards understand each other. I volunteered on the same basis as my colleague Vujadinovic to inform him that it is nice that the government cares about pensioners, but it is a short-term measure. If the government thinks of pensioners to the extent that they deserve it, then it is necessary to change the law, change the pension accounting system, and give pensioners the opportunity to receive as many pensions as they will allow them to live a decent life, because in the current way of calculating and harmonising pensions they do not have the receiving worthy lives of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13362	Does anyone else appear by amendment or by article 225 to give explanations? No, I don't. Thank you. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the minister is gone, on behalf of the SPS, I have tabled an amendment that essentially resembles this amendment that my esteemed colleague, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, has explained before me. If you have noticed, all our amendments are directed, above all, towards raising the right meaning to be borne by our Army of Serbia, which is to reflect that army it inherited after the October changes. This condition also conditioned the writing of a number of amendments. This amendment adds a new position on 2nd, in Article 63, which reads: "The President of the Republic may, during the wartime status for the courage and merits of war, advance the first-class officer's representative in the act of a junior sergeant in the rank of sergeant, regardless of the conditions laid down in Articles 9 and 39 of this Law. "Behind Article 2 is added the new position 3 which reads: "The persons who are promoted on the basis of Article 2 of this article on the day of the end of the war are detained by an act in which they have found themselves, but do not have the right to further improve in a higher rank. "Article 63 regulates the promotion during the war. Believe me, I read the explanation why this amendment was not accepted, read, read and really couldn't understand, because the reason why the amendment was rejected should actually be an explanation for accepting this amendment. I'll read it to you, he says, "Amendment is not accepted since confessions are granted for credits in the war, and promotions can only be made under the terms of the prescribed law. "I'd really like someone to explain this to me. I couldn't understand. The point of all this is to motivate people, motivate our fighters, motivate our officers, motivate the military to perform their duty properly. It may not be of interest to someone at this point, but I've really never seen a better way of making a mistake about their participation in the war than to be promoted. Apparently, the legislator didn't have that kind of war experience. I'll remind you, a large number of those present have had war experiences. There are no different criteria, but when the time conditions and the time to judge who is right and who is wrong, who is brave and who is not who is not; who is behind whom the army stands and who is not behind whom it does not stand. Believe me, these are very specific moments and believe me, the Army was infallible enough to assess who should be rewarded and promoted. In the previous amendment that I explained, I had a similar message, with a proposal for the amendment to be adopted, which is precisely that serving a military term with a weapon should give some privilege tomorrow, employment, means, admission to a professional army. I said, if this continues, the Serbian Army will not have what we once called the Army's reserve band, because soon, in this trend of military service in civilians, as they now say modernly, without weapons, we leave one big problem. I don't know why this amendment hasn't been adopted. It is obvious, once again, that the war is a famous, frightening name, and even in a law involving the military, as if we should make a law on the Serbian Army, which in no way should provide for the possibility that the Serbian Army is doing its job, which is simple and not only in the country of Serbia and this political environment, but in the whole world. With that in mind, once again, this law did not in any way provide for separation, as it is said, of the weeds and the grains or to separate the quality from what is not quality. All the amendments proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia went exactly that way, but it was obviously not correctly understood. Here's another opportunity, the Socialists are praying and proposing that this amendment be made to Article 63. A bill on Serbia's Army adopts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13364	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13365	Dear People's MPs, Sreto Peric used one logical thing to fix and improve this law a little bit. I will read the first article in order to make it clearer: "The military, command, units and institutions of the Serbian Army can be awarded medals, plaques, badges and other recognitions for the successes achieved in the service." The amendment was proposed by counterpart Sreto Peric to add a new position after this attitude, which reads: "The types and methods of award of distinction are governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". It is logical, according to the Constitution, to attach ourselves to the president of the state who has the right to do so, but the president of the state is already very involved in military command; we assume that another structure can, apart from the defence minister, participate in the award of medals, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the present position 2, which becomes heading 3, after the word "recognition" is placed stuck and the words "other than those of Article 2" are added. So this attitude remains also a third position so that both the minister and the government would eventually ask for a medal. I didn't understand what you threw at me, but it doesn't matter. So, its basic purpose is that the government should have a share in the award of medals, except for the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence. Speaking of these amendments, and the amendment, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Sreta Perić, I believe that the defence minister or the Ministry of Defence has too much influence and staked in the law, to ask a lot of questions from the Ministry of Defence, because in Article 72, we have: "The professional military person may, if necessary, be temporarily referred to another command, unit or institution of the Serbian Army for the performance of certain tasks. The temporary reference of a professional military officer, if necessary, to a second command, a unit or an institution of the Serbian Army, may take a maximum year for three years. "It's all decided by the Ministry, but it doesn't say anything after three years. You know, it's in front of a dispute and court; as far as military personnel are concerned, since there are no military courts, that's one problem that's constantly being pushed through; there's no, there's no. This is another proof that military faces and soldiers must be subjected both morally and materially, and under oath, but must also be obedient. We have another member, Article 78: "At the end of these reasons, the elder in charge decides", that's attitude 2, "on the state of the service of the person who was away from duty. "There's no place to go again -- he's coming back to his post. That this law is written because obedients have to work, says Article 52. - conduct a disciplinary procedure. "The conduct of a disciplinary procedure for minor violations of duty has been outdated for one year since the initiation of the disciplinary procedure, and for serious violations of duty for three years since the initiation of the disciplinary procedure. "So for three years you can hold a man without raising a disciplinary question, and in that time he must be obedient. If he's disobeyed, he'll be disciplined. "The limitation of the conduct of a disciplinary procedure occurs in any case when two times as long as is prescribed in the position of the fourth member. "So, for six years, you don't have to judge him, but that's why you have to keep him in a constantly tense situation. I'll report for the amendments, there's more to show that the law was poorly done, and it's done so that absolutely military persons must be obedient to the Ministry or to the defence minister or to the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13366	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13367	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these days I have often welcomed Mr. Minister, and now I see he is not present. Please tell him what I'm about to say specifically about the amendment. To Article 69. The proposal for a law on the Serbian Army has submitted the amendment, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, our colleague Rajko Baralic. For the public to know what this is about, it is part of a bill on Serbia's military that speaks of placing on duty. In fact, the proposed article of the 69th Law speaks of who can put everything in formational places, or who can't, what is meant by formational places. An officer, i.e. an officer, shall be appointed, as a rule, to the formational place of the tribe, or service to which he belongs. And what if he doesn't meet those conditions, or if he can't find a suitable face? Among other things, Article 3 states: "The rank and position group for jobs set up by officers and senior officers under Article 2 of this article are determined according to the criteria for determining the formations of the Serbian Army's organisational parts. "The SPS parliamentary group has made a lot of efforts these days in its best interest to correct its amendments a bill that is not good, and we care about it to be a good law, because it is the first prerequisite for organising the army in the best possible way and restoring its reputation in the people. We believe that the bill, as provided for here, does not regulate the conditions for placing on duty for which the formation is determined by the rank of colonel, brigade general and senior acts. We don't think it can be in the same basket as the officers, with all the respect we have for them and the lower acts. We believe that at least basic criteria should have been found in the law, not to be a matter of some sublegal act. From this proposed solution, it is possible to place persons who do not have adequate professional equipment, experience in the performance of certain duties, specialisation and the like in the army, and when people are put in charge of responsible duties in such a way that is one of the first reasons for losing confidence in the military. That is why we have proposed that Article 69 be changed in a way that, after the six views we do not question, three new positions are added, which read as follows: "In the election of candidates for office for which an act on the internal organisation of the Serbian Army is a certain act of the colonel, or on the duty of a higher rank, account shall be taken of the degree of professional preparation, official evaluation, working experience for an appropriate duty and other conditions laid down in Article 79 of this Law" which is subsequently regulated. We believe it should be stated: "The duty for which an act of the internal organisation of the Serbian Army is set up by an act of the colonel may be appointed as an officer of the rank of colonel who has completed a school for command-command training or an officer of the rank of colonel who has completed his degree in academic studies - master", or a magistrate, as it has so far been, "in a scientific field that corresponds to work, or service to which he belongs, completed the appropriate specialist training or passed a judicial exam that corresponds to the duties he performs. "This is some basic condition that someone may be placed on duty for which the rank of colonel is determined. Also, we believe that the third position we add should read: "The duty for which an act on the internal organisation of the Serbian Army is a certain act of a brigade general or a senior act may be appointed by an officer of the rank of colonel who has completed a school for general staff training or an officer of the rank of colonel who has the scientific calling of a science doctor in a scientific field that corresponds to the work, or service to which he belongs. "What was our idea? What's the point? How do we look at it? It is very important to give these basic elements for the highest rank and on this basis for the highest duties. We find it logical to find a place in the law. I'm not questioning these six positions that have spoken about it -- what, how, who, but we think we should still single out the rank of colonels, brigade generals and more acts. It doesn't bother the law, it doesn't even destroy the concept of the law that the proposer gave, and it certainly gives meaning to both these duties and these acts, and it retaliates the attitude towards Serbia's Army. We suggest that in the voting day, if the minister is not here to accept it, we accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13368	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. National MP Zoran Despotovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 69a be added after article 69a. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment, which is similar to the amendment of counterpart Rajko Baralic, since the explanation of the rejection of this amendment is the same. After Article 69, a new Article 69a is added, which reads: "In the election of candidates for senior position, account shall be taken of the degree of professional training, official evaluation, working experience for an appropriate duty and other conditions laid down in Article 79 of this Act. A professional officer of the rank of Lieutenant Colonel may be appointed to the office for which he is appointed by the formation of a certain act of the colonel who has completed the military academy and the school of command-command training or has the scientific knowledge of the master (master) or specialist in the scientific field that corresponds to the gender, or service to which he belongs. A professional officer of the rank of colonel who has graduated from the military academy and a school for general staff training or an officer of the rank of colonel who has the scientific calling of a doctor of science in a scientific field that corresponds to the gender, or service to which he belongs." Reason – conditions for placing on duty for which the act of the Colonel and the Brigadier General are to be laid down by law. If the ministry gentlemen had read this amendment properly, they would have accepted it. It is likely that NATO members in Serbia have rejected this amendment. Given the fact that the transformation of the military is under way, and that there is a reduction of professional military composition in recent times, thus also high formational places, which will not be much, and which are of exceptional importance for one military force, as well as Serbia's Army, not to say places of exceptional reputation, such as chiefs of service, genders, assistants of Chief of Staff, commanders of the brigade, I don't think people can be placed in such places without a high degree of professional training, calling doctors or masters, excellent references during service, command-command training, especially specialists in the service they belong to. In the near past, we are very familiar with the abuse of these very high formational places where people are placed, i.e. suboffices, without any qualifications, without special military experience, through various connections, family, friendly and party. This violates the reputation of the Serbian Army, especially if officers do not have the support of people, i.e. The units they represent and which they command. In every generation in the ministry, i.e. The military knows who's who and what it's worth, whether it's capable or not, and then you expect such a high-ranking officer to maintain the battle of one unit by showing a false condition, not a fact. It's about the loyalty of people to be brought to war or to be an example to these people. One is an army in peace, and the other is in war, where real values are shown for people who are willing to give their lives for their country. Dear gentlemen, all this depends on the manager. The commanding composition of an army. In these places, highly educated officers, officers of reputation, honor, honesty, such as our General Bozidar Delic, who is unfortunately retired with 48 years of life. That is why I have submitted this well-intentioned amendment, which is of paramount importance, because the adoption of this amendment would not result in a variety of abuses, would increase the ability and professionality of the high-ranking officer, and thus also the armies of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing, unrelated to this amendment, since we all know that the military has been demoted since 2000, is the question - why did you deny salaries from 1 October 2000 until 1 October 2005, to professional military members, and it is known that the salary must not be less than three, nor higher than five average salaries at the level of the Republic for that month. It is prescribed in Article 75, the Official Journal of the SRJ, number 43/94 and 28/96. You are aware that almost 70% of professional soldiers have filed charges, are seeking their right to do so because, unfortunately, they are deprived today, or the military has nothing to eat, and there is nothing to talk about uniforms and weapons. You owe every member of the Army, including the pensioners, and there are about 75,000, an average of up to a million and a half dinars. Finally, I warn you of a strike announcement by members of military associations and military pensioners. This is well-intentioned, I suggest you apply experience from real, not so-called. reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13370	I thank you, Mr. Despotovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The People’s MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and People's Parliament, the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, Mr. Marton and I have submitted an amendment to which we are changing the existing Article 91, here I will read it, it currently reads: "A soldier at the service of a military term, a student and a student of a military school institution and a person on another professional training for officers and sub-offices belongs to a monetary income appointed by the defence minister. "We propose that the text of this article be changed and that it reads: "The soldier at the service of the military term who before his compulsory military service had permanent employment shall be paid at the rate of one half of the gross salary he received from the employer. This fee is paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. A student and a student of a military school institution and a person at the second professional training for officers and sub-offices belong to a monetary income set by the defence minister. "We believe that young people in this country are already in a very difficult position. They face various forms of discrimination in employment. For women, these are conditions that the employer has no constitutional or any other right to set. For male persons, the obstacle may be represented if the person seeking the job was not in service of the military term. Employers tend to keep these people out of work, and for every young man, it certainly is a very big obstacle in life and a big problem is that if six months are left without means to live. This especially applies to young families, because imagine a man who is married, who has small children and who suddenly needs to leave his job and who works for a salary of 200 or 300 dinars for six months. We simply think that one way to finally fulfill the campaign's pre-election promises, when everyone's mouth is full of young people, their rights, and how young people need to live much better, the best way to show them that someone will really take care of them is to allow them to have at least part of the income that would otherwise have no obligation to join the army. Of course, the position of the Social Democrats League is known – that the military should be professionalised, that the general military obligation should not exist because young people can find other ways to be useful to the state. Of course, every young man will be more useful to the state in his workplace, where he will do his job, not to be sent to live somewhere where there is no living conditions, where there is no elemental human right and yet he does not get the money for that time and that his family lives the way he lives, to find out how he knows and can. We believe that funding can be found in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the government's goodwill should now be decided and that the government shows that there is someone who will take care of the young people in this country, that they are not only a topic in the pre-election campaign, but that even when someone comes to power, they will finally start to deal with young people, their rights and their standard of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13372	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 125th Amendment was submitted by MP Željko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I have submitted an amendment to article 125 for a number of reasons. I was hoping the Serbian Army would understand the moral significance of this amendment. Otherwise, here is what the amendment says, for those who do not have it in front of them: In Article 125, the point is replaced by a comma and the following text is added "as well as a spouse and family member of the Serbian Army who has achieved the property of a wartime military invalid from the first to the fourth disability group. "In fact, what is it? Article 125 stipulates that members of the families of dead fighters who were active members of the former armies provide priority in employment both at the defence ministry and in Serbia's military. Indeed, there is no excuse from the moral aspect that this amendment is not accepted and that this article does not extend the right to hire and members of families of fallen fighters under these criteria. But, I really don't know, more MPs were wondering today what wise man wrote these answers to the amendments, what a man had come up with and wrote: "Amendment is not accepted given that special regulations regulate the rights of wartime military peoples and members of their families. "Lords, you who wrote this should be ashamed of you. The same law prescribed the rights of the families of the dead, so you included them in this article of the law. I would say that you are a divided person and that you have a serious animosity to the amendments submitted by MPs from opposition parties because I really cannot see the logic and other explanation for refusing such an amendment. It's really little and uncomfortable for me to talk when there's no minister, who I hope would have so much understanding, stand up and say he accepts this amendment. You know why I'd say he accepts this amendment? Because on 27 August 2007, we informed the Minister and Ministry of the launch of this initiative and why we think this should be accepted; 30. 10th at the Ministry of Defence, where unfortunately the minister could not be present because, watch out, from 27 August to 30. 10. He couldn't plan any day when he would receive a delegation from the Association of Military Disabilities of Serbia... So much for respecting the current minister of war veterans, that is, the people who were killed before him for this country and for that army. However, it is not the highlight of the cynicism and irresponsibility of this government and this ministry towards us. So that's the question that's been asked at the 30th meeting. The 10th present, Colonel Trandafilovic said it was already covered by the draft law on the military, but whether and when the military law will be passed remains to be seen. Gentlemen, how come this? How is it possible that Lieutenant Colonel Trandafilovic has deceived us so much and that since 30. The 10th to this day could not, or until the day that this law entered the procedure, be included, even though it was promised. Let me tell you how... If you don't think I'm reading this or quoting it from some document, it says here that it's the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Human Resources Sector, since 6 November 2007. So someone's writing in the Ministry, and this someone, I'm going to tell you what it's called, is the Assistant Minister of Human Resources, Mr. Mr. President, I assume he's a doctor, Bojan B. Dimitrijevic. Mr Dimitrievich, you should be ashamed to write in your statement, or in your meeting minutes, that this will be an integral part of the law without it being in the law. Is the reason that the Association of War Disableds, which particularly takes care of these people, is to turn away from the actions he wanted to organise to fight for such a right? You know, there's no minister, the Ministry gentlemen aren't very interested in hearing this, that's not what they're interested in. They can't respond positively to what I'm saying, assuming that the majority of the assembly in the voting day will vote this law, regardless of the moral consequences of such a decision. So, indeed, from this story about the minister and the ministry, that it wants to raise the reputation of the Serbian Army through the reforms they are conducting, there is nothing. Without raising respect, i.e. without a more correct attitude towards former warriors who were killed in the armies of the previous state for the interests of the Serb people and the Serbian state, there is no reputation for the military. Never will this army be at a higher percentage accepted by the people than it is now until some other people come to the head of the ministry, head of the army and see all the obligations of such an institution which in all countries of the world is a cohesion factor for the entire people and for all people who want good for that country. Even in countries where the military is professional, where they are strict professionals, the percentage of the country's citizens' support for the military is far higher than Serbia's citizens today towards Serbia's Army, which is still a people's army and is not yet absolutely professionalised. Although there is no Mr. Minister, I will address him personally, I hope someone will tell him what I'm saying now. Mr. Minister, if there's an amendment that you need to accept, it's an amendment to Rule 125. It doesn't cost a country, it doesn't commit anything, it just gives priority under the conditions of people who have proven patriots, people who have sacrificed themselves for this country and for this army. So, if you don't accept this amendment, I'll be able to conclude just one thing, not just me, but all the former fighters, all the veterans, all the wartime military people -- that you had no understanding of their needs and that you didn't want an army where there would be patriots and people who loved this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13374	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Marton. The minister's here in the building. He'll join us now. Don't worry. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13375	Thank you, Mr. President. LSV MP Jerkov and I have proposed an amendment to Article 154 which reads: "A soldier at military service, a person in reserve while on military duty in the Serbian Army and a person on second professional training for officers and officers can be given the following disciplinary measures... ". There's four of them. With three, we can agree, but we believe that attitude 4 or the disciplinary measure of the extra service for up to three shifts should not be in this article, because we believe that the excessive service of up to three shifts, defined like this, can be the basis for inhumane treatment and torture. Everyone who's been to military service knows there's been such a thing. Ambassador Jerkov and I believe that the government's position not to accept this amendment wrong, and therefore, as my predecessor, I advise MPs to press the green button in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13376	I thank you, Mr. Marton. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to Article 189. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic to Article 189. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13377	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers in absentia... As you said, Mr. Dulic, he's here in the building, now he'll come down. Did he arrest anyone? This is really degutant that the minister doesn't have, here, we have three amendments left, and the minister should, if he's here, at least hear what we're saying. Simply, the minister underestimates this assembly home and us MPs, hence the citizens. This is his behavior and the drop-off from the scene, which could be suffered, given that we know Mr. Sutanovec from an earlier period. Here, it's the biggest victory he's ever done in his life, which on Starry made a house in seven days. He also boasts that he has completed special courses from Garmispartnerkirchen, likely his narrow speciality is skiing, slalom, slalom or skydiving. It's something that really Mr. Sutanovac is doing just as tastelessly, but here, he shows his true face, he couldn't even last to finish this part with the amendments. If the amendments are legally possible, perhaps he would accept some of ours, although we suspect that he will accept any amendment from the SRS. On the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army. Article 189 of Article 4 after the word "editation" adds the text "will be promoted to the rank of major or corvette captain, without the right to further promotion", and the rest of the text is deleted. After Article 4, a new position 5 is added, which reads: "The officer from the previous position is entitled to improve by gaining higher education". The existing attitudes 5, 6 and 7 become points 6, 7 and 8. The reason is that given that very few officers in this status are more logical to improve them than to have their rights abolished by this law. In order to make it more clear to the citizens what I am talking about, I will read: "The officer in the rank of captain of the first class, or Lieutenant of the battleship who found himself in service on the day of the entry into force of this law, who has not completed the military academy, or who does not have the proper higher education, is translated into the rank of captain, or lieutenant of the frigate. "That's what this member said. With this amendment, I wanted to fix this and simply make it clear that if someone had already done this duty, and there is no higher education, then the question of how he did this duty; if he was doing a good duty, why would we degrade him and why would we lower his rank? He couldn't make any progress anyway, and we've said that there are very few professional personnel like this. We bet a corvette instead of a frigate. Otherwise, it's a corvette, if I'm not mistaken, and I don't think I'm wrong, a reconnaissance ship or a little fast cruiser. We don't think the personnel doing this should be demoted. As soon as they are in this position, they adequately corresponded to the tasks set before them. And we saw that literally, when it comes to reconnaissance ships or rapid cruise ships, in this section that was made we don't have a river navy; it's now attached, as far as I've seen, to the land unit, even though it's a little illogical to me now. When we look from a geographical aspect, we have a long river border between us and Croatia, and even longer towards Romania. According to this logic of things, if you were to lift this, and you probably had to explain in law why it was abolished and translated into a land unit, I'm asking a specific question, but I'm sorry the minister isn't here, even though he wouldn't even know what I'm talking about right now. I am now interested in, in case, God forbid, war with neighbouring Croatia or Romania, whether, by strategy and doctrine of the Army, we will wait for them on the coast, because we will not be able to oppose because we do not have, as far as I can see, the water resources. That's something that turned out a little illogical. According to that logic, we don't have any water defenses at all. You've translated her into ground forces. I think this is the kind of solution you've given in this article against the law and against the constitution, because the kind of persons that have been placed on these functions have been promoted to the proper rank of captain of the first class, or lieutenant of a battleship, under the law. On what grounds do you now deny them this? So they couldn't, without a legal basis, come into that position and get their rank and can't force this new law to undermine everything, to abolish that right, or degrade it into a lower act. So we didn't do anything special to you, but with this amendment, we fixed this article, and we proved that the persons doing it, so the officers doing it, they need to find themselves in a higher rank, because they won't be able to move any further. Very few of those officers are in that position. After Article 4, a new position 5 is added, which reads: "The officer from the previous position is entitled to improve by gaining higher education. "It's something that's perfectly normal. So, if someone wants to perfect themselves in their professional career, to get to school, they can gain a higher calling of the academy, and then they would be allowed to translate it into a higher rank. So we didn't degrade anything here, on the contrary, we wanted to protect the officers who found themselves in this place, because they're professionals and they have their jobs. We're giving them a chance not to go down. There are very few of them, and I can see that you've already translated them into ground units, and you might turn them off. I'd really need a minister right now, since this fits into our corvettes, frigates, to translate all of this into ground defense. I'll ask you a specific question, if you know it; you can transfer the minister or if Mr. Dulic allows you to come out and say it, and it's about this part. I'm asking a question for a gentleman in absentia, Sutanovac, is there a diving club owned by Dragan Karles? At this point, I don't know what the name of this diving club is, but it is known that there is no more than one diving club in Adi Giganlia, Dragan Karlesha owns the club. Does the Army fund it? Did he also get a few ships from our river fleet, the old Yugoslavia, so SCG, now Serbia? Because there's an indication there's a club, there's ships, and I'm afraid it's not from this frigate or corvette, it's not those ships. Now, since they're going to be first class captains, lieutenants, it's going to happen that there's nothing people can be on, that they're not on those ships, but they're simply turning everything into private hands. When Mr. Sutanovac arrives, I would expect him to come out and challenge or answer this question. I'm not sure that's the case, but according to the knowledge of the people who are closely related to this, it's not unfounded to ask a question about this. I think it's a classic abuse, if the basic assets, and the ships and the rest are basic assets and the military funds of Serbia, are given to someone for private purposes. I'm afraid our ships will end up being rafts and someone from yellow camels will open up an elite restaurant or an abortion, and our army... Since we ran out of river navy, I'm afraid, besides Mr. Sutanovac, that we'll be out of air, even though they're remounting those planes, but Mr. Milan Avramovic gave him this new prototype, he'll probably perfect that part. But we'll lose ground defense, no infantry, no entire army. It's an amendment that's really trying to regulate the position of military faces. Mr. Sutanovac should know that the military faces are not just the generals he knows, the retired colonels who magically return to his service, so they become his advisors and lead further VOA. In particular, I'm talking about Mr. Kovac; they were friends, pals on the SDPR Southport Management Board. Advisers, not only Mr Dragisic, Mr Markovic and Mr Aleksandar Radic, are DS advisers, are perfected at universities for special and security measures, and that is something to know. Military faces and armies have never been harder to live. I come from New Belgrade, where most military people live, but there is no living in Flowers, gentlemen, but in what they say is the dormitory in New Belgrade; these are not comfortable villas, here, Mr. Sutanovac is there, they are apartments. I can tell you from personal experience, I'm a military-faced child and I live in an extremely military 61, and there are senior officers. You've totally demoted the officers here, and you'd like to shut them down. Not everyone can be generals, not everyone can be so educated that they're strictly perfected abroad by Marshall's plan. Military figures in New Belgrade have never lived up there. First, because the salaries are extremely small, secondly, because they're shrinking, and not to mention the position of civilian persons who worked in the military, it's magically cleaned up as a broom and there are no more civilians who carried defenses in the system in the state and helped perform all the actions and everything else. It's clear to me, when Mr. Sutanovac is behind this law, where we are—the army of Serbia is being translated into missionaries, so I'm afraid there will be legionaries. It's clear to me that Mr. Sutanovac doesn't have a lot of touch points with ordinary worlds in the profession of military faces, where the ensigns are to the captains, the majors and the colonels who live with me. All the officers of the honor are quickly relieved, headed by General Delic. Surely, when he's Minister of the Army, he'll get better and better. You laugh, but, Mr. Sutanovac, to compare you and Mr. Delic, that would be the degradation of Mr. Delic, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13378	The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13379	Dear People's MPs, I would support my colleague's amendment by asking again the question of this amendment. So, the sights of Serbia's army are, under this law, a land army and an air force and an anti-air defense. Mr. Minister, I asked you a question - why did you throw out the river navy? I would ask for official, confidential, secret or whatever the hell you're sending that information, I want the Serbian Army General Staff to give me a written explanation as to why the river navy was thrown out. Don't think he can't. My father was at the General Staff, I served the army normally, I want either strictly confidential or at the signature, whatever you want. I believe that this is an unreasonable decision, given the length of the Danube, a river called the Serbian Sea, that the Danube is occasionally up to 120 metres deep and in some places cannot be fought; ships passing are mostly ships of foreign states, which can carry anything. Because of the lack of the river navy, a radioactive load can be unloaded in the depths of the Gerdapian lake, in the Gerdapian ravine. The police can't stop it, only a patrol boat, a military ship; as many as we already had, I found out, five or six, seven, it doesn't matter, some are older, some can be remounted. Why did that get out? It's an extraordinary need for a river navy. After all, Hungary has no sea, but it has a navy and I really don't understand that such a kind of army... I wasn't in the Navy, but it's a beautiful sight for me, where there are specialists, divers, divers, that this army can later train for business and for participation in various actions, don't God, some diversional needs. I don't like anything else in this law, which is Article 176, where it is said: "A member of the Serbian Army may, in whole or in part, be free of responsibility for the damage caused or caused, i.e. a procedure for compensation for damages could be suspended if it was done by acting on the orders of the presumed person, provided that a member of the Serbian Army had previously warned him in writing that the execution of the order would take place or that damage could occur. "I have obeyed orders in the army, but imagine that I asked my superiors in writing to order me to be free of responsibility! It's illogical for me. The order in the army is carried out either by oral or daily command, or by protocol, because it is now amended. I can't ask him to write to me in writing that I won't answer. That's totally illogical.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13380	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13381	I'll do it very briefly. I would like to support this amendment by Mr. Seculic, because it makes sense. Namely, Article 179. The bill, given that certain acts are abolished, provides that all officers in the rank of first class captains, at the moment of law-making, are translated into the rank of majors if they have completed the academy, or in the rank of captains, if they do not have a finished academy. We have suggested by amendment that those who do not have a finished academy, so they are in the rank of first-class captain at this point, be translated into the rank of Major. According to our information, it's a very small number of people. I don't think it's correct for them, for some human and moral reasons, and it's not legally correct, that a new regulation, a new law, removes the rights already acquired by some earlier law. This is exactly what's happening here, they're literally degraded, and from that rank of first-class captain they're returning to the rank of captain they used to have. We have suggested that they be translated into an act of the Major, but that further progress be limited until they get a higher education so that they can move forward. Of course, the government didn't accept it and it'll probably stay the way you suggested. I would just take advantage of the time I still have to ask one question to the minister or to the full government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we have been approached by a number of persons, military persons who are either retired or are still in service and civilian persons who are still serving in the Yugoslav Army, so Serbia-Montenegro, now Serbia, which have been cut off for years for part of the privileges they should have had under the law. According to that information, as they passed on to us, they sued the authorities. If that's true, there are as many as 50,000 of them. I ask the question is that true and if it's true why these lawsuits aren't being prosecuted and when will they be? As far as I can tell from their information, the judges are literally afraid to take it in the process, because it's a huge amount that the state would have to replace. I am interested, and I would like to receive an official answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent authorities, as far as it is true, how many people have filed such requests or actions, which are the figures, and what the state is going to do to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13382	Thank you. On Article 190, the amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 190, the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP Misa Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13383	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the SPS Group has tabled amendments to Articles 190, 191, 192, and 193. These provisions are contained in the Military Insurance Bill in Chapter XV - Transitional and Final Provisions, and that is the part relating to military insurance, military insurance rights, etc., therefore, the complex of military insurance rights. Mr. President, if you'll allow me, at the same time, to explain the amendment to Article 190 and the amendment to Article 193, I will consider it particularly important, in the context of this time, to be one amendment. (President: I thank you for that. Here you go. ) Otherwise, this part of the law that speaks of military security rights in our opinion is one of the worst parts of this law. This is about the rights of military insurance and the hour of the second law is applied; the hour of the law by which they have so far had rights, the hour of the Law on PIO, so that it is not known what these rights are. As for us, the SPS parliamentary groups, we believe that the relationship to military insurance, military pensioners, is the same as the government's relationship to Serbia's Army. We also believe that a very important place should have exactly the rights of military insurance. The rights of military insurance should be regulated by a special law, pointing out firstly the specificity of the call that military persons are dealing with, all the weight of the work they are doing and, of course, we point out our relationship with them and the military. These specificities can, in fact, most entirely be shown and verified as elements in determining pensions in special normative acts, in particular the law. The largest number of professional members of foreign armies are also making pensions under special conditions in relation to employees and pensions are mostly coordinated from the budget and part from the military budget. Therefore, it is not unknown that this system in the world should be specifically regulated and particularly evaluated. Military pensioners are now in a position to be approximately predetermined by the possibility of amending the PIO Act, according to the Law on PIO Serbia. We think it's bad, especially considering, in addition to the specificity of the work they've been doing, that it's some of the rights they had at the moment they entered the military service and counted on it. Especially if we have in mind that a large number of military pensioners, we just heard a number of 50,000, found in a situation not to accept, not to exercise the right to pay out pensions under government regulations. So the government regulation was passed in 2004 and 2005 for retired persons before 1. 8. 2004; these are rights that have not been achieved, and these are huge resources. So when all of this is placed on one pile, it is seen to be one bad relationship with former members of the Serbian Army, or military pensioners. Given our relationship with this, our policy on this, we have therefore proposed two amendments that I will explain. The first refers to article 190, and here's what he regulates by the bill. Article 190 says: "Warguards who have exercised social security rights until the day of entry into force of this law continue to apply those rights according to the law under which they have been implemented. "We think it's okay. We think there's something missing here, and he needs to find a place, and for those reasons, we've made an amendment. If the amendment is not accepted, we believe that legal certainty will be questioned by those people who have initiated the procedure before the adoption of this law and the procedure has not been maintained. We therefore believe that Article 2 should be added, which reads: "All requirements for the exercise of social security rights which have been lodged until the date of entry into force of this law will be terminated on the terms and conditions which have been governed by the regulations which were in force at the time of the proceedings, if that is more favourable for the insurance company. "We think it is necessary to do so, because such a solution provides legal certainty for a person, i.e. the basic legal principle is being implemented - solutions under the new law cannot be at the expense of the persons who have obtained those rights under the earlier applicable law. So, to round up, when it comes to Article 190, not just those persons who have already achieved it, we ask that this applies to those who have initiated the procedure, they are in the process of resolving, they are in place according to then applicable regulations. We believe that it is a very dangerous threat and legal certainty for citizens if they do not end under the same law. The second amendment concerns Article 193. What's article 193 and what does it regulate? Article 193 says: "The harmonisation of the amount of pensions of military insurance workers achieved until the date of entry into force of this law, as well as pensions achieved after the entry into force of this law, shall be carried out in a dynamic manner and in a manner established by the law governing pension and disability insurance. "We think this is a very bad solution. First, this is the proposed provision of Article 193. The draft law on the harmonisation of military insurance pensions refers to the application of the provisions of the law governing pension and disability insurance, but this provision is unclear because it does not specify which law it refers to, bearing in mind that we still have three pension funds. However, one thing is certain, there is no need to refer to the Law on PIO at all. For these reasons, we have proposed by amendment the following solution – that, until the adoption of the rules, as they follow, pension and disability insurance of military insurance companies shall be pensioned by military insurance companies which have been achieved until the date of entry into force of this law, as well as pensions made after the entry into force of this law, shall be brought into line with the movement of the nominal amount of salaries of professional soldiers of the appropriate rank and shall belong to the next month in relation to the change in the amount of salaries of professional soldiers. So that solution that existed. We think this solution is far more adequate, better and much clearer and more precise, until the relevant regulations are passed in that area. When the regulations are laid down in that area, it will be as they regulate you. By means of this amendment, the SPS Committee on Defence and Security adopted an amendment to Article 193 which I would like to comment briefly on and support here. It's not the kind of solution we might want, but it's basically an acceptable solution. In fact, as far as I'm aware, the minister is likely to react to this, the amendment of the Defence and Security Committee has been accepted. If that's the case, I want to support it. What I'm saying is that we're not vain about which amendment will be accepted. We want to solve that question. That is why I want to support here the public and amendment of the Committee on Defence and Security, which I heard, was supported by the minister, which reads - Article 193 (on which I spoke earlier) adds a new position 2 which reads: The Government of the Republic of Serbia will, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, adopt an act to regulate the way, procedure and dynamics of reconciliation of the achieved and unmistakable obligations towards the users of military pensions that have been made under the rules of the PIO military insurance company until the entry into force of this law. I think this should have gotten rid of it before. It is good that it has now become a legal obligation, which the government will have to carry out. Of course, it gives both a chance and a legal basis, or whatever you want, and to the government to arrange the dynamics and way of solving the claims made to this person category. At the end of the day, to round up, this set of issues dealing with the law, which applies to military insurance, is not in line with the concept that we have, as an SPS, because we believe that this requires a special law and that these people's rights are regulated in a special way, because of the specificity of the job, the specificity of the service and, ultimately, because of their relationship with the military. We believe that Article 190 needs to be complemented by Article 2 and that, in addition to those who have already exercised the right, the same must apply to those who have initiated the procedure, and it is not yet completed, and that it is in the same way that they should resolve it. As for Article 193, we believe that the harmonisation of pensions of those who have already acquired them should be done in the way it was done until the rules were passed. Finally, we support this amendment of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13384	I thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic to Article 191. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Miljanic to article 193. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to article 193. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic to article 193. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 193 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Thank you. We've completed the search of the bill. Does Minister Sutanovac want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13385	Dear MPs and MPs, I must say that I was ready to work all night and don't have a dilemma so I don't stay here until the end. I want to thank everyone who has been constructively involved in this debate. Unfortunately, some have not resisted a subject called Dragan Sutanovac, but today is not the subject of Dragan Sutanovac, and today the law on defence and military law is on the agenda. We'll already face it in some next election. We're going to have a chance on the Starstar, both in New Belgrade and anywhere, but I'm saying, it wasn't my wish to discuss it today. The MEPs resented it if I corrected them briefly from the position I was sitting in. Now you're throwing it at me. That's more about you now than it is about me. Thank you so much for your participation. What, truth be told, is true, we have accepted a certain number of amendments, that I do not list them. What we considered to be quality we accepted, and what we felt was not good quality we did not accept. Unfortunately, you seem to be exhausting very often and very much by not talking about a subject on the agenda. I don't think that's good for you or our country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-07-0.u13386	I thank you all. Thank you to the representatives of the Department of Defense. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People. I am concluding a review of the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Have a nice weekend. I'll see you Monday at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 120 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW (specificities) I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited, next to Minister Markovic, who replaces Minister Vuk Jeremic for the right to prevent him from attending the session, and that today we are also the Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs Mirjana Zivkovic and Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr Mirko Stefanovic. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vidoje Jovanovic, Dusan Bajatović, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Miletić Mihajlović, Bojan Milovanovic, Rajko Baralić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Zutić, Mileta Poscurica, Goran Cvetanovic and together Balant Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudžević, Bajram Omeragić, Srdjan Šajn and Rajko Đurić, as well as amendments to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You received notice from MP Rajko Baralic that he was withdrawing an amendment that he submitted to Article 61 on 27 November 2007. It's a bill of law. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 146, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an untimely, amendment of the National MP Neboja Rangelovic to Article 18 and Article 47. The bill, so they can't be discussed at the National Assembly session and they're not voted on. Also, you received a notice from the government that, when considering the Foreign Affairs Law proposal, Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, was designated. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not discussed the amendment submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic on 5 December 2007. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
