ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14346	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR, WITH THE PASSING DOCUMENTS (the follow-up in detail) On Article 5 of the fifth paragraph, the amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Amjad Migati, submitted to the Fifth Sections 8 and 12 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14347	It is generally known that the budget is a mirror of the government's behaviour towards national interests. In my amendment, I wanted to point to one aspect of the government's behaviour towards national interests, and before that I would like to show another aspect. However, I was uneasyly surprised by the reasoning given by the Legislative Committee – why the amendment is not legally possible. In their explanation, they say it is not in line with the draft budget law, which we have not adopted yet, and they are already applying it. It's a big scandal. I heard about Minister Knezevic, who made the decision under the bill. I don't understand how the Legislative Committee can behave like that? The Committee considers that it does not comply with Article 26(1). Law on the budgetary system of amendments to Article 5 The bill was submitted by MP Amjad Migati – writing black on white. (Mirko Cvetkovic, from the post: It is a valid Law on the Budgetary System. Is it the applicable law? Okay, I'm sorry. We are now going to see how the Serbian government does not advocate national interests. First, by tearing down institutions through the budget, secondly, by strengthening the power of the tycoon through the banking system. In the budget we adopted last year, item 1 for division 1 – for the National Assembly was 3 billion 600. The new draft budget says – for the Assembly, 2 billion 160. So they approved a billion and a half. If they cut 40% of the Assembly's budget, it would be good, Serbian radicals would accept it if it were to apply to all institutions, or to the entire administration system, to reduce the budget by so much as to invest in investments, so that Serbia would be enriched rather than poored. However, that is not the case, but the budget is increasing everywhere, somewhere even three times. So 300 percent is an increased budget. Now the minister would say -- you know what, you didn't spend your budget, or the Assembly budget last year. That's true, because we haven't worked, thanks to you, seven or eight months. The assembly didn't work until July. Why did you bring in that reduction? To destroy the reputation of the institution of the National Assembly, to strengthen the reputation of the government, which is under the control of the National Assembly. Your media is constantly criticising the National Assembly, constantly talking uglyly about the National Assembly and MPs, and that is not true, because no one says MPs have the least salary compared to the officials elected to office, that they receive even less than some workers in the Assembly. There are about 100 workers in the Assembly who receive more than the MPs. Three months ago, I asked the Serbian government a parliamentary question -- when will it pass the bill on the salaries of elected officials and officials? I'm sure you'll never pass that law. Why? So you can manipulate it, because this is a kind of savings to you. You are creating such a law, according to the world standards, under which the President of the Assembly, President of the Republic, President of the Constitutional Court, MPs, judges of the Constitutional Court, have the highest level of wages, and are going further and further. With this law, you will save a few billion dinars and invest where you need to develop investment in the budget. However, it does not occur to you that you are doing this, but you are still jeopardizing the reputation of the congregation, and of the MPs, or the entire system. In your budget, the Prime Minister's Office, the Vice-President's Office, has been increased by three times; the past budget has had 36 million, now it has 91 million. The Vice President's office has tripled its budget. Why is there no answer? There's an interesting observation. Mr. Djelic keeps telling us how he works, how he got everything done, and here's how he gets it -- the budget -- it's three times bigger than the previous one. He shares the budget in favour of his employees. That's not where we're gonna find the answer. The minister won't be able to answer us why it was done. When we proposed this amendment, our goal was to increase the assets of the Republic of Serbia, to invest in the purchase of goods, for example. The residence, the embassy abroad, which is only for the benefit of the state, and through this purchase, very large money will be saved in the budget in the long term, as the foreign ministry is a huge cost of the rent paid to embassies, residences, etc. But what are they doing here? They reduce, according to the previous budget, the item 511 that is intended for buildings and construction facilities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and increase several times the funds intended for the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank, etc. What does that mean, in fact? In fact, we take the money we left to buy, we give it to so-called. To our banks, which are not ours, for God's sake, we capitalize, and then we privatize these banks, we take from the same bank credit, we give them interest, and we increase their capital. It's not an accident, for example. in this budget, repaying debts to the Commercial Bank, buying an embassy building in Brussels. Why did you put the money in for the capitalization of this bank, and you didn't buy the embassy building in Brussels for that money? You have cash, don't invest there. Instead of taking a loan and paying interest on that loan, please, our bank, and save it right away, to save on interest, which is not small, and so each year we consider buying one building, one embassy, a residence, which increases the property of the Republic of Serbia abroad. You know real estates all over the world don't grow, they don't lose value. Even the interest you get, let's say, at our bank, is much less than the profit of an increase in the price of real estate. It's purely economic logic, but I do not think that you go into that budget with purely economic logic, but let's, once again, go through this national interest, to strengthen the functions of the state, or government, against the National Assembly, not to speak of the Army, not to speak further, because these two examples are clear and loud, to strengthen their influence, to be independent. What a congregation, how to control the government, how to cry. It depends only on the government, the Assembly must be so because the government and its mentors want it to be so. Is that in line with the current policy being implemented? If the Assembly is weak, then all suspicious politicians will pass. For example, Kosovo's independence -- all except LDP are against it. Let's go back a year earlier and analyze the statements of the current politicians, who said, remember, that it's inevitable, that it's a reality, which is terrible, at least we'll be together in the EU, which kidnaps Kosovo. To keep the Assembly quiet, there should be as little resources to work as possible, that MPs can't act on their own, have their own thoughts, be free and independent of the government's dictatorship. You dictate through the budget the work of the National Assembly, but you increase the loans we take, you give more interest where we don't need to and you reduce the possibility of buying real estate for foreign businesses abroad. What's your budget? What do you want with that? I offered you a way to cut costs. Once again, I ask the Prime Minister and Prime Minister for a reply -- when they will once again adopt a bill on the salaries of elected officials and everything to go in order, according to world standards, not to be some director of a government firm, let's say, yesterday, that the director of the "officer" who was our colleague until recently receives three times the salary. How is that possible? Mr. Todorovic talked about one figure, but we will ask the Administrative Committee to provide us with information on the salaries of both the President of the Republic and the Ministers, the Assistant Ministers, all who are employed, advisers of the President of the Republic, to see how much money is going there, to cut it short for the benefit of investment, in favour of the purchase of goods that would increase the property of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm not surprised by that budget. As all of our colleagues have said, it is a budget that is not in line with Serbia's national interest, but only wants as much as possible to reduce the wealth of goods the state of Serbia has, and the more it increases the credits, the debt of Serbia, so that, slowly but certainly, it goes into debt slavery of those mentors abroad, which are, among other things, here by that foreign bank, which you created at the expense of the destruction of domestic banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14348	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleague Bozidar Delic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, submitted an amendment to section 5, section 9, function 210, economic classification of 511 buildings and construction facilities. Since 2000, when the government changed and the appointment of a new defence minister, and this was the current president, Mr Tadic, there has been a collapse of the military, so very few funds from the Republika Srpska budget have been allocated to building housing and solving housing problems, so there are major problems with officers living in barracks today, where they are separated from families, where all the facilities, which have been in office before, are in such a state that it is a big shame and a shame for today's Army of Serbia. However, this is not the fault of the officers, but is the fault of the government which manages this country and which should allocate equipment and training tools for the military. As for the EC 511, Mr Delic, the MP of the SRS and the vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, proposed replacing the amount in column 6 with "1,658,350,000" with "2,820,875,773" of dinar, and in column 8, "2.202,350,000" with the amount "3.374,875,773" of dinars, so that a major problem could be solved in the coming period of building apartments for members of the Serbian Army. In economic classification 512, MP Bozidar Delic proposed that in column 6 the amount, foreseen in the 2008 budget projection, of 7.651,000,000 be replaced by 12,651,000,000 dinars, and in column 8 - amount "7. 941,000,000" replaces the amount “12. 941,000,000. Anyone who has visited members of the Serbian Army over the past few years, given that there has been a reorganisation, that many units have in the meantime implemented a reorganisation, saw that all the equipment and machines available today's Serbian Army are in very poor shape. The SRS MPs also talked about it when the Defence Act was on the agenda, so we pointed to many failures at a time when the minister was Tadic, and when Davinic was from G17 plus, and now, when he was the current minister from the Democratic Party, Sutanovac. We often have opportunities to be invited, as representatives of political parties, to take an oath from the Republic of Serbia's soldiers. When we go around the barracks and the equipment shown on the runway itself, we see that it is a very outdated equipment, that it continues to care about it, but with such equipment and with such tools, it is difficult for the Serbian Army to function and to respond adequately, when there is a need. Due to all these things and major failures observed in the functioning of Serbia's Army, Delic suggested that much more funds be allocated from the budget and that a major problem be solved for Serbia's Army, as well as the Serbian Army's equipment, so that the Serbian Army could retain the reputation it had for years and not be, as it is now, in one of the worst conditions since it existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14350	I thank the MP Sasa Valjarevic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Here you go, fellow Stupar. There's a word from MP Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14351	Mr. Minister, if you hadn't predicted the budget properly, that's for sure, and that you're not familiar with the situation with the military. During my review of the Military Act, I presented Mr. Sutanovac with information about a debt that the state has towards military figures and several associations, which filed a lawsuit. You, Mr. Minister, in this item for personal income payments predicted a sum of 18 billion 381 million and 680 thousand dinars. However, according to the data we received, this is about a petition sent to the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and there are a total of four associations that have launched, even, a court dispute. They will exercise their right through Strasbourg. On the other hand, we have a petition of over 5,000 families who are dislocated and located in Serbia's territory, so you did not have in this budget what is the commitment of the state between 2001 and 2006. When we discussed the Military Act, Mr. Minister, according to data found by court experts in the course of this procedure, in these few years, from the budget, which provided for funds for the payment of people who worked, whether they were civilian persons, whether they were officers who worked with the military, it was found that the budget funds had disappeared, that those funds were not spent on purpose. In 2000, that fund disappeared 2.7 billion, Mr. Minister, 2.7 billion disappeared from budget funds. The following year four billion were missing, in 2002 -- two billion, in 2003, Mr. Minister, four billion, and in 2005 -- 1.4 billion, or more than 14 billion, respected citizens, disappeared from the budget, from the funds that were purposely allocated to people who were either members of the Army or civilians who worked in the military. Practically, they were provided funds for wages. They couldn't get it, because someone spent it. Mr. Minister, if you had knowledge of this cost for which the state is bound, your item would have been not 18 billion, but it should have been -- for payments of more than 30 billion. Because basically, these 14 billion you're going to have to provide in the next period, because they're going to prove to the court that they were right. The Association of Homeless Militarys, where there are 1,630 families, also filed a lawsuit and petition. Please, Mr. Minister, can you answer me if you have any idea that this 14.1 billion is a government obligation? Did someone deliver to you to see that there were 5.5 billion in 2000, and 50% of the funds were spent just for payment? We owe 2.7 billion people who worked at the Army. What's going on? You act, not personally, the whole government treats the citizens irresponsiblely. These citizens, in 1991 and 1992, were, in the course of armed conflicts in Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, decisions by the Presidency of the Supreme Command of Armed Forces, along with units and institutions in which they served until then, dislocated, commanded. They didn't decide where they were going. Someone gave them orders to leave. Today they are in Serbia. They're here, and no one's taking care of them. It's impossible that, as finance minister, you don't have this information. What kind of a serious state is it when you make budgets for your citizens, you determine resources, and you don't practically have them anywhere? When you came here, not personally, and when you proposed to adopt, or to sign this CEFTA agreement on trade co-operation, you said that it was all arranged, that it should be signed, and you didn't think about what our obligations to people living in Croatia were, what are the obligations, as regards property, to people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, people living in Kosovo and Metohija. People are dislocated, living here today, and their property has remained outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The state acts like a stepmother to these people. They were on the front line of defense, they were defending this country, and today they're citizens of the second order. No one's taking care of them. So, please answer me, Mr. Minister -- are you familiar with this lawsuit, are you familiar with the fact that the state owes 14.1 billion, because you've set 18 billion and 14 billion-year-old debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14352	I thank the People's MP Dušan Stupar. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Predrag Mikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are immediately noticed by this draft budget that you are not headed for actual events and conditions in the military. I'm telling you this because, according to the data available to the SRS, the resources provided for in the budget are not enough to solve the problems of thousands of military personnel, citizens working in the military, i.e. civilian faces. These are the problems affecting the housing of those who have respected their debt to the state, and today they are homeless. They live in abandoned barracks, shut down the arrival of DOS to power. We of the SRS, this amendment by General Bozidar Delic, want to show you to allocate more funds in the budget and at least, as much as possible, to alleviate the problems of all those who served this country. Try at least in the voting day to correct that injustice you've done in the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14354	I thank my colleague Mikic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Dr Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14355	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, my party, that is, I will vote in favour of the proposed law and I will join the opinion and words of my colleague, Mr. Balint Pastor, whom I express my gratitude, first because you have kept your promise to the national minorities. Of course, I'm not an economist by profession, my profession is philosophy and sociology, but for me, the budget is interesting because these crowds or, in order for our fellow mathematicians, we have Mr. Albianić and Mr. Petronivic, say, these gatherings, express, first of all, the political aspect of this society, the production-technical, scientific-cultural aspect, the security and even the moral-aware aspect. I don't want to explain it, because I don't think you're guilty, because given the current political and, especially, cultural and spiritual circumstances, I admire when you can create and create a budget plan like this. However, I was particularly encouraged by yesterday's presentation of my colleague, Riza Halimi. I don't blame him for asking for a double increase in the financial plan for three municipalities. I looked at yesterday and explored how many inhabitants are in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac. Of course, each of you can do it with ease and in a quite simple way to determine. It is, therefore, about 80,000 people, of which 60,000 Albanians. I have nothing against people living there, but on the other hand, we have Roma, 800,000 in Serbia, 1222 settlements. My colleague Dragan of the DS knows, says his municipality, Kosjeric, is the only one who has no Roma settlements. So if we compare 800,000 Roma in Serbia with 60,000 Albanians in the three municipalities mentioned, then we come up with an incredible discretion and question whether we can continue in Serbia, in the 21st century, that we have national minorities of the first order, second order, third order. In the hope that reason and, above all, what stands in Article 1 of our constitution will still lead to consciousness, I once again express my gratitude to you and remain in the hope that this will be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14356	Thank you, Dr. Rajko Guric. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to you by article 225 and 226 regarding the alarming situation in Toplička County. I ask for a notice from outgoing President Boris Tadic and Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac about when they will solve the problem of military reservers from the Toplic district who have been on strike for several months, as Mr Tadic, Sutanovci Dusan Petrovic, do not allow members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, 21, 22, 23, to be equal before the law, to protect their rights guaranteed by the Constitution, to protect their dignity, which is such a lack of the behaviour of the mentioned gentlemen and how violated. SRS MPs, Mr Bozidar Delic, Mr Momir Markovic and I have repeatedly appealed over the past period that the competent state authorities solve this problem, but because of this relationship between the DS leaders and the people did not move further away from the beginning. There's another problem here. Mr Batic appears who, full of noble feelings, provides reservers with free legal assistance, but in that he is empowered by a single sheet of paper, which represents the power of the reserve to represent them, but with that power the accession of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as well as Batic's advice to the reservers to boycott the presidential elections. Of course, going to the elections is an individual thing for each individual, where citizens are committed to their own understandings,affinities or lifestyles they live in, but the reservation from Kursumlia, offered to 'good-will'' Batic's media advice, announced not a boycott, but a distraction of the electoral process. So, to simplify things, on the one hand, you have damaged citizens, on the other side of the Democratic Party that is denying them fundamental rights and the right to equality, but also Mr Batic, who brings them into even bigger problems, because this protest must not be politicised and that is the only way to solve their problem. People of Toplice, think for yourself, don't let individuals manipulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14358	I thank the MP Mark Milenkovic. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Nenad Prokic submitted to Article 5 of the 12th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zvonko Mihajlovic submitted to article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14359	Dear Members of Parliament, dear friends, on behalf of the SRS, the amendment to the draft budget law was submitted by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. He submitted an amendment to article 5 of Section 12 of function 09 in economic classification 464, which says that the amount of 12.000,000,000 dinars is replaced by 12,639,409.000. These are the amounts allocated to the pensions of agricultural producers. Serbian citizens have known the government's strong commitment since 2000 to agriculture and Serbian peasants. This was often said in every election campaign, however, something contrary is happening in practice. The more the government, or parties now in power, advocate for the development of agriculture, for the help of the Serbian peasant, the harder the peasants are. The DOS and DOS policies of October 5th led to a complete poverty of agricultural households. The result is excessive imports of agricultural products and the introduction of taxes on repromaterials and agricultural products, so it is quite appropriate to return some of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to peasants through pensions. The government helps farmers through various types of loans. However, it is not the most important and most important thing in agriculture to obtain credit, because even if they get credit, farmers do not know where to invest that money, i.e. it is not known which production will be paid at the end of the cycle. Unfortunately, that's the situation, if she gives birth, the problem is to sell, unless she gives birth, the problem is that she didn't give birth. There is no strategy for the development of agriculture, i.e. there is no production plan to direct farmers, in which direction they go and what to produce. There's just one thing about agriculture, where you can't get good results, you can't create workers, you can't make that kind of money to get yourself old. Agricultural households slowly die away. Any young man who has a chance to escape from agriculture is leaving because he sees his parents making it very difficult to live from that work. Therefore, there must be planned production in order for farmers, warlords, cattlemen to identify what it is that will provide them with profit in production. As far as farmers are concerned, they do their work under the open sky, it's their factory. Every drought or big heat, all of this has a bad effect on agricultural production. The government would have to consider that because, I say, people who have aged, nursing households, they can no longer deal with agriculture, young people leave villages, so those old people came to the beggar stick. The government, or our country, must have an impact on this, not only on favourable loans, but on some planned production and purchase of agricultural products. It must be organised by the state, the peasants themselves cannot, it is theirs to produce and must be helped to realize. In the past there were cooperatives, but the destruction of agriculture no longer exists anyone who buys these products. So, with this amendment, the SRS has proposed to increase the amount for farmers' pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14360	I thank Ambassador Kishmarton. Anyone else want a word? The word has an MP named Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14361	I wanted to talk a little bit about the amendment, i.e. I wanted to say that this story about sushi and the story of agriculture is very interesting to people from the north of Backa, and I know that there are MPs here who are from the north of Baka and that they know what the situation is and what promises have been made by farmers who have suffered great damage from the drought from Minister Milosavljevic. I asked you yesterday, Mr. Cvetkovic, I suppose you transferred, so it would be good for another minister to come, especially now that we're talking about agriculture, to have Minister Milosavljevic come and get answers to some questions. Farmers spoke to Milosavljevic this year, and he told them more than once that he would ask for a bigger budget for agriculture, that he would compensate them for the damage. Their demands were to be somewhere around 10,000 per hectare. They got an offer of 100 dinars per hectare. Talks were held with state secretary, Mr Milan Petrovic, and ministerial assistants Danil Golubovic and Dobrivoj Surdul. Afterwards, they were told that their issue would be resolved in the government, and this was the Commission for Fundamental Accidents headed by Velimir Ilic. Of course, none of it was. They tried again to make contact with Mr Milosavljevic, however, Mr Milosavljevic was very busy, traveled around Europe and around the world, went on various holidays, to various receptions, with some tycoons, but had no time for farmers. With all his promises that he had listened to during this year, since he became minister, that the agrarian budget would be increased, that all those areas that were threatened by droughts would be able to count on funds that would alleviate the situation, unfortunately, none of that would have happened. Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic spoke to farmers who drew attention to him that about 60 million dinars were set aside for new cars, so they asked him to take a little account of it, so that if they were channelled to farmers, they could in some way ease their survival. He pledged to try in all ways to move those funds towards farmers, however, that promise was not fulfilled. As a result, there is a danger that farmers from the north of Backa are heading back into roadblocks. They feel very humiliated, for the simple reason that the government has declared that it is the degree of threat, i.e. The damage to the drought, unlike their budgets and the budget of experts who say it's about 80, 90%, only 10%. The fact that it is not true, em leads to a situation that threatens their further existence. We have the knowledge that only 60% of the estimated area is sown with wheat and we can certainly expect in the following year and wheat shortages and much more prices than would be expected. I therefore believe that the government has not fulfilled its promises or its obligation to all those who have been killed, all farmers who have suffered great damage to the drought, in some way, to be compensated. It was their obligation. Em because they promised, 'cause there was room to expand the agrarian budget. So, the 5% budget increase for the Ministry of Agriculture, in the situation in which Serbia was this year, in which it will be next year, is very minimal and I think much more could have been done on this issue. The farmers will certainly not be satisfied with such solutions and we can expect new blockades in the north of Backa, and very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14362	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. Is anyone else answering for a word from the MPs? (No) To Article 5. A division of the 12 amendments was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14363	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this may be one of the most interesting, or the most indicative pages in this proposal for government revenue and expenditure, which in an under-transparent way reflects the government's intentions and behaviour when it collects and spends money. Since it's not transparent enough, as they say in their display, I'll try to explain to you why this is the most interesting part of the budget. This government collects most of the income from those who cannot and cannot hide their incomes and avoid tax, as it is called in theory -- are not in a position to do tax ejaculation. These are citizens who are mostly full of the budget register by paying extra taxes, when income taxes are paid from their salaries, and then, as citizens, unable to avoid income tax on citizens, full of government cash. At the same time, up to this year, the smallest tax was on company income, precisely because the most diverse innovations of the revision of international accounting standards, the various ways and the failure of the law, by looking through big fingers, were possible to hide their incomes. So, the state that collects revenue from those who can't and can't hide it, you know where he suggested to invest it? The amount of 14.285,000, which is the subject of this law, is intended to be invested for the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank. I'll explain it to these users right away. The commercial bank is the one where the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development already has a share of capital. The commercial bank is the one on which the finger indicates that one of the initiators and participants was a monetary coup in late November, for two reasons. One, the hard-line newspaper, which I don't trust very much, but when it comes to financial data, I have the opportunity to check it out a little bit, which she wanted me to iron out my negative balance before the end of the year, so she ironed her final bill with an agreed inflatable course, in line with the National Bank. The commercial bank is the only bank Mr. Mladjan Dinkic wanted to keep under his paw, and that's not an ugly word, because his control of an institution really means it. It's a man who has liquidated four of the largest banks, which I believe will one day, as well as the Treaty of Succession, be the subject of studying and determining the responsibilities of those who have done so. So, that and that Commercial Bank, of which my colleague Amjad Migati said, this government is planning to take a loan to buy an embassy in Brussels, the government is asking us to approve its recapitalisation. It doesn't say how much money. The sum is dated to 14 billion and 285 million, and we only know that part of 2 billion and 334 million is intended to be written off at a broadcasting facility, Serbian television and Vojvodina. Of these 14 billion, we heard on some of the shows involving Vice-President Bozidar Djelic, more capitalisation of the Export Insurance Agency and the Post Office is planned. I, dear citizens, really have no words. There is no word in Serbian that can describe the government's impudence to propose this part of the budget. So, there is no Serbian word that unites the poverty of citizens and the insolence of the government to seek money for the capitalisation of the Post Office, whose entire leadership spent more than a year in custody for investigative activities and against the "sugar mafia". It's not the first time. It's not you, Minister, it's new. The past government in a state of technicality, many of the current ministers were members back then. I simply couldn't believe that someone dared to do this, for the amount of the people charged with the Post Office's savings account, did the capitalization of the Post Office in 2006. People, whose logic you cover with thieving, stealing and spilling money from something where the state has a participation, and that's the Post Office, some physical, private or legal persons in their pockets, and then you're asking for it to be covered from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the incomes I've told who's filling them, who pays them most -- those who can't avoid it. I am for the respect of the law, but this country must deserve to be paid gladly by its citizens what they are bound by law. I really have no intention of calling on any kind of tax evasion, but I intend to call you to sound logic, to seriousness, to respect MPs, to citizens, when you ask us to grant you budget spending. So, the Commercial Bank, which is claimed to be, and I have no proof. Why don't I have them? I'm the chairman of the Finance Committee in front of the SRS. I have not received an answer to any of my parliamentary questions so far and no citizen, no institution still, although requested, could get an answer to the question nine banks participated in operations with the National Bank in direct trade. Don't tell me you're not in charge of the National Bank. Whose National Bank is this? German state? From Mars National Bank or is it the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia? Why is he hiding, dear citizens, who made 376 million losses to the National Bank last year? I claim, repeat what is known. Money can't evaporate. The minister says the money changes the aggregate form, so it goes from loan to material possession. Yeah, in one piece, but money can't be lost. The money the National Bank lost went into someone's pockets, and in whose, we can't find out. If I can't find out from where I'm at, how they're gonna find out about the citizens, how I'm gonna explain to them how neatly you're in charge of state money. Why is it hiding today that banks participated in a monetary coup on the day when the National Bank, in order to stabilise the course, came up with four million euros at 85 dinar for the euro? What is this stabilisation if I offer so little euros at such a high price? You dare suggest that at a time when it does not fill the news column, but empty pockets of citizens, when paying credit rates, you propose the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank, you suggest the capitalisation of the Post Office and the capitalisation of the Export Insurance Agency! This is another contribution to inventing that para-state apparatus in various agencies, despite persistent insistence on transferring our tradition and world experience to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, to have a domestic development bank, a bank that will deal with the lending of agriculture and exports, because this is done by any serious country that counts in the long term on survival. You recommend us here recapitalisation, and that, according to Mr. Djelic's statement on one of the shows, with 50m euros, but of this amount, as the Agency will now deal with the insurance of some of our export operations. Do you really think this people forgot to export banks? Why else's, even if we're providing loans when our bank can? On behalf of what does our banks not deal with lending to the population, small businesses and the real sector, but rather with various agencies and ministries, through some indirect institutions? On behalf of what does Mr. Dinkic deal with start-up loans, loans for tourism development, and I don't know what everything? You guys have turned upside down economic logic. Do you think we haven't finished some school, not to mention, that there's no literature or that the world starts with you? I think this is really, as much as you've given wrapped up, summed up, with one little note as to how the 621 budgets will be spent, bold enough and sufficient reason not to pass your entire budget. Really, I don't know if you'll explain it to me. You don't know who told you that, that's what someone was looking for, that was important to the survival of the government. There's no reason why we're gonna pay for criminals who lie in jail, to keep their property safe, and to put dust in our eyes by proposing some laws on the seizure of property acquired by illegal acts. My people, citizens, know that you are passing laws that register only rights, with the hope that they will once be applied, as you do for the restitution and registration of property. You were silent yesterday when I told you that the court had made a temporary measure that your state agency, the Government, had sold yours, ours, the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the property of the Robing Houses. I've got a court ruling, and they're sending citizens to see it. It doesn't matter what you keep quiet, but it does. Then what are you going to do, put pressure on yourself, blackmail that temporary measure is lifted? You can't end the truth. You can't talk to Serbian citizens like that. They're not in a position to make arguments as part of what we're about to make. It is not enough to recommend here an anesthesia for the amputation of Kosovo, which is called 'EU accession'. I repeat, the story of access funds, the story of a bright future and the European Union, is an anesthesia for what is called amputation, planned and planned, and I sincerely hope that this will not happen, amputation of part of the territory. I can't influence that. What will those outside us decide on the part of the territory I come from? Unfortunately, he can't do much to represent the state in this situation, but he can do enough. In this part, we can do much, and all of us together, which is that we do not show ourselves to citizens as their unworthy representatives, unworthy in terms of the roughness of the dictionaries we use, but unworthy in that most important part -- how we have the money that they offer us at tax to make responsible decisions about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14364	On the occasion of the amendment, Dragan Vujadinovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14365	Very short interpolation. I have already appeared several times and I have talked about the necessity of increasing the capital base, to say, our import-export bank called AAFI, which is your Agency for Insurance and Export Finance, and it was founded with 30m euros of fixed capital, which is little for our exports, i.e. for our export competitiveness. I have repeatedly asked, in the form of a parliamentary issue, on behalf of the export economy, to increase the capital capital of AAFI, i.e. our export banks, because it works on the principle of the bank. Whether it should be an export bank or an agency, that's a professional question. The agency only works as a bank. Its terms are the following: 3% interest rate, foreign exchange clauses and a one-time fee of 1.4% per year, a total annual interest of 4.4%, plus a foreign exchange clause, which is equal to or lower than a three-month budget, is best, is better and is not better for us, for exporters. Therefore, we need to increase that capital base because there is little money for exporters. Exporters need much more and agree fully with all those who say that due to external trade deficits and current account deficits, which, above all, stem from the external trade deficit, we must either increase export competitiveness through course or preferential loans. Whether it will be an export bank, whether it will be the AAFI agency, it is less important, it is important that they behave rationally and work more efficiently on the principle of the bank. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14366	Replica, MP for the People's Republic of Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14367	You weren't there yesterday, Mr. Vujadinovic, I hope they told you that red carpet is called 2,000 to 10,000 euros per new job, for which we have no guarantee. I have that regulation. I have one basic question -- and why are we so secretly setting up a Deposit Insurance Agency to deal with exports? Did someone ban the banking system, and why do we call it the Agency's recapitalisation? That's not true, Mr. Vujadinovic, I'm a very careful listener. Credit insurance is not the same as export credit. That's absolutely not true. It is not true that, here, this occasion, only one brief intervention, the NIP is conducted through, for example, the Regional Executive Council, in the image of Mr Pajtic and the work of local self-government on the territory of Vojvodina as it is imagined. My dear colleagues, there are those of us who remember the primary show, its abuse, but also its use. You have old teachers who tell you, take the dinar from the National Plan, we will portray it as two, it will be for you and for us. That's what I was talking about yesterday, abuse of public funds for private purposes, unfortunately. What's wrong with the blue-and-yellow color is wrong, but it's gonna get citizens to judge and condemn. What bothers me is on behalf of what is part of the bank, the Austrian banks, which the European Commission has punished for cartel behaviour for agreeing on interest; there have been eight banks being fined in 2004, I will give you that information. One of these banks took part because of its need for money, a monetary coup was created that left 20m euros out of citizens' pockets and budgets. They can be called banks, they can borrow, finance and whatever comes to mind, even that life out of the question, and we can't start an export bank, but we've had to liquidate everything, so you assure me of what's a loan insurance. Then what does that mean? That the Deposit Insurance Agency is some kind of savings organization? Don't, Mr. Vujadinovicu, you're an economist, there's no need for this country to behave like that, or even if I don't know it, and those who need to court and fear, are not worthy to sign this budget, let alone run the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14368	Here you go, Mr. Dragan Vujadinović. I suppose it's a replica you have no right to, but here you are, since it's a professional discussion, I have some rights here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14369	In the framework of AIFI, insurance business, practically, export insurance at the embryonic stage, has not been built either, but all capital is used to finance exports. The company where I am employed uses a constant million and a half euros, but it is little under these conditions, three plus one, four at an annual level, 4.4% is the best interest and we have asked, we have constantly asked to increase the capital capital of AAFI, as exporters are promised by the government, by the finance minister, then Mladjan Dinkic, that space, a special bank or agency will be created where cheap loans will be from 3% to 4%. It's accomplished, but it's not enough. Whether it's called insurance or not, it's essential that the entire potential is drawn from that loan as a credit potential. That's definitely what needs to be increased. Secondly, once, Mrs. Vucic was talking about some kind of oligopolization of banks. I assure you, gentlemen, every day, on the basis of this credit bureau, on the basis of a company balance sheet, every day 37 banks, or a dozen banks, visit clients with a good balance sheet and compete, offer better conditions, so that the oligopolisation or monopolization of the banking offer really doesn't have a speech, even though my field experience says so. There's no deal, because banks have limited demand and that offer is every day, and we use Eurobor loans plus 2.5%, so that's where it came from. If that's a lot, you should say, and I don't think it's much, that less can't. I'm pulling out of the discussion, but I'm staying at these numbers, and completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14370	The word again has Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Always professional debates are very interesting, at least for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14371	You work at the company and you know perfectly well how the state used to do export programs and how it used to be kept records and stimulated people to work exports. Complete liberalisation in 2001 and all that is happening today assures me that your personal desire is not controversial, but is a controversial behaviour of the government. There is no financing of exports if this economy has no one to lend. Who's crediting her? Foreign banks that get credit from their queens? I'll say slowly that the citizens understand me, because you must know. Of these funds, a very professional governor, who has his expertise ahead of politics, immediately takes 40% for a mandatory reserve. Those 60 dinars, the euros they place, must give such a price to ensure the cost of all 100 dinars. It is not true that we have, as a consequence of competition, some European interest. That's not true. My experience says so. I've worked long hours at the bank, I haven't been happy to use credits, conservatively raised to live on what I have, which doesn't mean that some people don't know, don't want or don't have to; some people have to take it. But the conditions by which loans are given to citizens – from Ireland, which is my last experience, to the countries in the environment, tells us that interest here is at least 25-40% more than there. I'll go out with the data, as always, and I'll give it to you myself. However, speaking of professional discussion, I will ask only one minute to finish the minister yesterday, as the withdrawal of money, by printing emissions, has caused inflation. When the state of Serbia prints records of value, which are not savings records, but some state records, and pulls, so someone buys them, someone gives them money. Who in this country today has enough money to invest in these government records? (Minister of Finance Mirko Cvetkovic throws out the post: Banke. Banks, great. He gave a partial answer to the minister – the bank and part of the state funds. Let me explain them first. They were buying records of money that were strictly assigned to them for wages, material expenses, which we here approved with the budget. Where did they get the extra money? Banks, instead of crediting at this favourable price, they invest some of their money in records, and then there's less money for loans. When there's something less, it's more expensive, Mr. Minister. The mandatory reserve itself, when increased, reduces the amount of money in circulation, so Mr. Governor rightly explains that he will collect loans. When a loan is collected, all the products in which the share has loans, well, according to the viewing system or spiral system, and those in which the credits are not involved. To translate into what the citizens understand – when they collect gasoline, they not only collect the cost, the cards, where the share of the gasoline is, but they collect all the impulses in which oil or gasoline have a share. So don't get into this guy's debates, or I'll be happy to accept that we're going in, but everyone on our side doesn't realize what kind of a contribution inflation makes and accuses the other one. The only ones who have the right to accuse the People's Bank and you of insufficient long-term consideration of the consequences are us right here. And in your intentions, Mr. Vujadinovic, I have no doubt. But there is indeed a lot of reason to doubt the government's intentions not to set up an export bank, as it did not write off the debts it had written off as a state, but turned them into state property, and then sold money into a budget, gave to whoever she wanted, not listening to much to the Assembly or those who created those banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14372	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14373	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, for giving me your word before the deadline. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia, the banks are oligopolies, and that's what citizens can find on different sites. Here, for starters, comparison of the price of 16 products in Serbia and Germany. May I have your attention, please? Because the money here is expensive, the interest is expensive, and that's why prices are formed. So, one liter of milk in Germany costs 63, and in Serbia, 72.9 dinars; one liter of oil in Germany costs 60, and in Serbia 93.90 dinars; two liters of coke in Germany costs 62 dinars; and in Serbia, 89 dinars; 1.5 liters of Swiss in Germany costs 81 and in Serbia 83.90; 100 g of chocolate in Germany is 61.6 and in Serbia 87.90; 100 g of chocolate in Germany costs 66.3, and in Serbia 97.90; apple juice, one liter, in Germany costs 68.6 and in Serbia 77.90; nano tea - 20 bags, in Germany costs 30 dinar, and in Serbia 32.50. You've seen how expensive Serbian food is. Now, tooth paste "Colgate" of 75 ml in Germany costs 116 dinars and in Serbia 122.9; soap in Germany costs 23 and 43 in Serbia; detergent 'Persil', 2 kg, in Germany costs 376, and 452.9 in Serbia; detergent 'Ariel' of 2 kg costs 389 in Germany, and 465 in Serbia; shampoo 'Nivea' of 250 ml in Germany costs 194, and 209,90 in Serbia; milk for 'Nivea' body of 250 ml in Germany costs 256, and 314,20 in Serbia; deodorant 'Fa' costs 77 in Germany, and 178.9 in Serbia, etc. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is the price of money in Serbia. So each of these products has an enormous banking interest on those who operate. This is the truth. So the most expensive money in Southeast Europe today is in Serbia. None of the banks in Serbia that operate as a foreign bank are, in fact, not. She is a Serbian bank, or bank of Serbia with a foreign name. Try, we've instructed this example a hundred times, open an account with any bank in Serbia - Raiffeisen, any one, so go to Austria, or the Societte General, and go to France and try to pay something from that account, they'll tell you that you're a non-existent client. That's true. I'm just plowing here with those who claim something that doesn't stand. I thank Mrs. Tabakovic who gave me a good cream for this topic. Not to report to the Rules of Procedure, let me speak to the public, based on the letter that Studio B sent to all the heads of parliament: "This way we want to inform you that almost 90% of the employees of Studio B supported the initiative to exclude Studio B from privatisation, i.e. to remain a city public service in the future, the founder of which would be the City Assembly... '". I am informing employees and management of Studio B, on behalf of the SPS, that there is today an amendment to the Law on Broadcasting, requiring all electronic media to be exempt from privatisation. There is another similar act in the assembly procedure, which the minority parties have filed, to exclude electronic media from privatisation in municipalities and cities where national councils exist, or national minorities. So, despite the fact that Studio B does not support us, we support Studio B and we advocate that he and all the electronic media in Serbia are exempt from privatisation and that the privatised electronic media, whose founders were municipalities, cities, provinces, the Republic of Serbia, return to their original state. So we didn't even deserve to publish the news in the Serbian Parliament when we organised a press conference, and we, by promoting four laws that we released in the procedure, said, among other things, that we advocate that electronic media should be exempt from privatisation because it is written in our political programme. So, I invite Mr. Timofeev and the Union of Employees at Studio B to look at what we've released in the procedure. Today we will officially inform them, send them a copy of the amendment and the addition of the Privatization Act, or broadcasting, where they can make sure that what I'm saying is absolutely true. I want to tell them this, too. They remembered it too late. They warmly supported a complete privatisation project, and when the order came to them, it seemed to them that it was not the best solution. Unfortunately, it's wrong of you to say that famous commercial from ten years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14374	The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Borka Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14375	Dear Minister, about the amendment, I'll be very brief. I'd be very specific, as always, since I have some experience. In the export support sector and in the sector of obtaining better conditions for export lending, we are zero compared to any organisation of this type or agency. Neither the credit bureau nor the agencies nor any specialised other institutions will help us. In my experience, for 42 years I've worked more or less with the whole world, with all the markets, in exporting can help us in particular the only export bank, the export bank; exem banks everywhere. I'm not talking about Exame Bank, America, the ESD, the Cofas, Hermes. All countries have a bank called a bank to lend export insurance and so far none, there have been some privatisations, none of these institutions have been abolished. I'm very sorry, I've been trying to write it and I've made a proposal for how we got to the capital market. Only through our increase in production, export and with the support of ex-banks, export export banks of those countries. The first score is JAT, the first to be recognized by Exim Bank in America. We then made a market breakthrough with our production, and it was from the area of infrastructure and traffic. I remember then, thanks to Exim Bank, he lived to be published as the first to be the best aircraft company in technical equipment and by the number of accidents. He didn't take such a place on the commercial, but I'd like to say that these export institutions of the world have put us on the market, export banks. I can tell you that we even used the Export Bank of China on conditions when we needed it. Therefore, our government has forgotten the integration of banks, not the monopoly, the monopoly has someone else now. There's a possibility with us today, I'd like to say it, because I've experienced it, in a bank where I've worked, 17 integrations. We have the integration of not only banks, but also banks and insurance companies in order to raise capital. That's the only way banks can help us. In our country, there is such a possibility, I must say, and for the sake of our citizens, and for our own sakes, and for our own sakes. We have a fantastic bank, a former Yu Guarantee bank, now called the First Serbian Bank. These are two significant banks in their capital, in their experience very well known, they did these things. One, though specific, but again by export, credited the export of our special purposes. The experience of all countries needs to be exploited. You know that City Bank was the largest bank in the world, including this Credit Agrol, that there were three or four integrations with various institutions to increase exports. So, I'm just suggesting the finance minister, because I don't think that this possibility has been used at all with us. One is "Jubmes" or "Jurant Bank," they have all the conditions to integrate with their capital today. I'm very serious about them, and I also think there are other sources, the possibility that very quickly, without any pain, we get a bank, an export or developmental one that deals with export lending.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14376	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 5, the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14377	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, on the draft budget law, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, to Section 12, function 110 - economic classification 621, in column 6, so that the amount "11951.000,000" is replaced by "10,451,000,000", and in column 8 - the amount of "14,285.145,000" is replaced by "12,785.145,000". The Serbian Radical Party suggests that the difference of a billion and a half shift to agriculture. The SRS considers that agricultural producers and agricultural production are in an extremely difficult state and that the overall situation is worsened by the catastrophic drought this year and the damage caused by this drought. We therefore believe that in 2008 there is a need to increase the volume of subsidisation and regression of warfare and livestock production. We consider it more important for the state to recover agricultural production than the capitalisation of some banks such as the Commercial Bank, the Post Office, etc., or investment in ski resorts. The 2008 budget was considered in situations where final accounts from previous years were not on the agenda. The projected macroeconomic policy promises that we will continue to have praise, that inflation will be a single digit, which we have heard so far. What does it look like in practice? Very well and increasingly, it is felt by Serbian citizens in a daily meeting with the consumer basket. More and more often, they collect basic provisions of life, bread, milk, oil, etc. It is obvious that the straining of inflationary pressures will continue to take place through the role of the Central Bank and the exchange rate of dinars in relation to the euro, and this will continue to favour the import lobby, while the export economy will record significant losses, taking into account projected export growth. This finding is clearly highlighted in a memorandum in the 2008 budget and fiscal policy, such as the conduct of sound fiscal and monetary policy. What about the citizens of Serbia? For the basic needs of life, citizens will single out more and more solid dinars, which is absolutely certain. Given that most citizens live on the edge of social misery, a question arises as to who this budget is intended for, as well as how the most effective means will reach those most needed, how it will reach agriculture and economy. The answer to the question -- to whom the budget is intended, is clear because the budget is intended for the ruling coalition to settle each other's accounts. The problem with the government is that there is no vision for increasing social gross products and abilities, for seven years, for managing the economy. The announcements of the freezing of the salaries of budgetary users and the reduction of subsidies are due to the over-indebted economy and agriculture, which for the applicant, i.e. For the government, it exists only as a taxpayer, not as a beneficiary of an economic environment. That's how Serbia took strikes, and the proponent of the budget is struggling to compromise to achieve its goal, at a very bad time, at a pre-election time. At the same time, the media is showering on the findings that we live in prosperity, which means underestimating citizens, who are not smart enough to understand that there is work for everyone in Serbia, that there is no collection of communals, food, fuel, etc. The inability to resuscitate the economy and agriculture and create a positive creative environment is manifested by an insufficient social gross product, and an irrational, expensive and inefficient state is doing what it knows at the moment. My amendment has not been accepted even though the government is talking about the need to help agriculture and villages. I can see that these are just stories about the development of agriculture, about the pawning of the agricultural producer, about standing up for the village, but the measures by the Government don't exist for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14378	I thank the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) To Article 5. Division of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Article 1 Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 5. The division of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zorica Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zorica Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. 145 and 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in which I request that Article 12, function 110, economic classification 621 be deleted. My explanation is that it is necessary to start real budget financing. The reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to my amendment is – the amendment is not accepted because the funds are planned from the need to preserve the percentage of ownership of the Republic of Serbia in cases of capitalisation, namely the Commercial Bank, the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the Post Office. To remind you, in the part in which I intervene with the amendment, the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget amounting to 14.285.145,000 dinars are allocated for the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank, the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits, the Deposit Insurance Fund, the Postage Savings, the Insurance of Exports, the write-off of the request to the RTS Radio-Difusion Institute, and that is the mention of the Vojvodina Radio-Delefuzna Institute, the RTS, although two institutions are already funded from the expensive TV subscription. We Serbian radicals believe it is necessary to start real budget financing. The funds of 14.285,145,000 dinars are not small, they are almost three-year budgets of the city of Nis. Since I'm an MP from Nis, I'm going to have to draw attention to that, so my fellow citizens can see for themselves some moments. Speaking of that budget, I have to inform the Serbian public that the budget in the town of Nis is five billion. Since yesterday was the adoption of the budget at the City Assembly session, something slightly larger than five billion, but that's not enough either. Only 70 million dinars from the Niš budget are allocated for the needs of the mayor and his cabinet, which is more than the total amount allocated for free meals in the National cuisine, free lunches for children of primary school age, free lunches for children distracted in development, for single aid for out-of-body fertilisation, etc. I would like Serbia's public to judge how you spend money, based on all the amendments tabled. A particularly interesting part of the fourth argument is the means for individual users. In that part, the government had to explain why the determined financial resources defined the beneficiaries of the budget, so in the reasons of Article 5, Section 12 of Function 110, at the apropos of 621, to my surprise, there is no explanation, but only the items to be rewritten. I believe that you retain old habits, as in other laws, prescribe the provisions of the Constitution, without any consideration. So, just copying, from word to word, there's no explanation, or in the draft budget law you don't give any explanation, but you just rewrite the text of section 12, function 110, Article 5. The MPs of the SRS are trying to help you settle the laws. By investing in the amendments, laws could apply to all citizens of Serbia, not to you personally. We're trying to point out your failures and close the doors for any kind of manipulation, but it's not worth it, it's better for you to come, raise your hands as it suits you, and we don't comment on everything that's not good. I must remind you again that in the Security Services Act, which you also signed and which is not the only one, literally, Mr. Markovic, who was found and unprepared, you cheated on him by putting security services not to be financed from the budget. There's something else, Mr. Cvetkovic, which I noticed, namely, the BIA budget is a billion harder than the Parliament budget. Personally, I don't think you're going to use that money to arrest and take innocent Serbs to The Hague. Not to go any further, since the elections are coming, I hope everything will change after Tomislav Nikolic's victory in the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14380	I thank MP Zorica Stevanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 12 amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Article 1 Budgetary system law. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 145, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. In Article 5 of Section 12, it is said – in addition, funds are provided for the write-off of the request to the RTS Radio-Difusing Institute, and to the Vojvodina Radio-Difusing Institute of RTS. You have advocated the subscription and operation of RTS on market principles. I think that this attitude of yours is in line with those views that you had back seven or eight years and based on which you deceived the people, so it says that the government should be a little more thriftful and rational in spending budgets. This budget is not based on economic principles, but is basically the financial support of the government's policy and it is social, because it provides for significant funds for wages and pensions, rather than for development, to show a clear government orientation towards investment in development, or the future. Serbia's 2008 budget is poor and populist, as it raises budget users in terms of wages, and that political appetites should be paid by businessmen, who single out 95% of budget funds. This makes their position even more difficult, as this budget predicts that businesses are taking it even further from the businessmen in the future. The budget will not achieve any of the objectives declared: no higher employment, no greater economic development, no single-digit inflation. The entire budget was created by a populist, pre-election, anti-reform, with 14.8 billion deficits. You now need to settle, gentlemen, all the unreasonable needs of Dinkic to develop regional Serbia, to meet the demands of many ministers, to achieve some economic growth, single-digit inflation and poor social policy. The basic error of the draft budget for next year is that it was made on projected rather than on real incomes and expenditures, which was managed by social and political circumstances, rather than optimal needs. Serbia needs a development budget, building infrastructure, but on a realistic basis, not at the expense of living standards and the quality of life of citizens. The best way to depolitize and keep the budget from these pressures is to advance a fiscal strategy in a few years, as is otherwise done in regulated countries and how radicals will do it soon. This is why real budget financing needs to be started. It won't be long, and Serbia will have a good budget, a good host and for President Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14382	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14383	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I suggest that in Article 5, section 12, function 110, economic classification 622 is deleted. To remind the MPs, within the framework of the 110 function, funds for the membership stake in the European Bank's capital for reconstruction and development were planned. Those aren't small funds. For a membership stake, 200 million dinars should be paid. The credits we get from various European and world banks, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are all but unfavourable. Let's just remember the laws that we've passed here, the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (the Railway Reconstruction Project) and the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty, the Railways of Serbia - the vehicles, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Despite the budget allocation, the economic classification of 622 and the acquisition of loans under these contracts, the citizens of Nis, where I come from, can't get a piece of the railroad that would be moved from the city area, for the direction of Dimitrovgrad, in Corridor 10. We're putting the country at risk of economic slavery with a one-off task, but this government doesn't care. This government is the only goal of keeping power as long as possible. Ministers from this interested government are also aware that many of them, by changing government, will be on the indictee's bench. As the people worse and worse live, while millions of unemployed in Serbia, while 600,000 people live below the poverty line, as teachers, doctors, workers strike, and tycoons from the ranks of parties in power become increasingly rich, the government claims that we are living better and more and more in debt to the country. No more domestic banks, no more production, no more employment, and more and more young and educated people are leaving Serbia. Unfortunately, this is the current situation, which does not make Serbian radicals happy. The upcoming presidential elections, which will be won convincingly by Tomislav Nikolic, will forever be removed from the political scene by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica and will be followed by the failed government. It is time for worthy, successful and fair, it is time for Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14384	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain to section 5 of Sections 14 and 19 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment and has not declared itself correcting the amendments. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with the correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14385	The government has not accepted the basic amendment. However, correction has taken place, so that this corrected amendment is accepted. I don't know if I should read it to you or if you're going to get it, but that new one, who came, he's accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14386	Therefore, the Government accepted this amendment, with a correction, the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction, is legally possible, so that I am aware that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. On article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Article 3 Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the United Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to which we have asked for, me and MP Jasmina Milosevic, to split up in article 5, function 420, the words 'and to the agricultural producers for the payment of sugar tails'. Why were we looking for this? For the simple reason that there are a large number of agricultural producers on the territory of the Pomorava district who have been trying for more than 10 years to collect sugar tails. Unfortunately, they haven't done it by now, because sugar cane Shelk 911 is in bankruptcy, there's no means to pay off this sugar tail, so the question is whether the producers are guilty of not being able to charge their trouble. This country has found a way to pay off old foreign exchange savings, to pay foreign savings and to those citizens who invested money in banks that offered large interest rates at the time, who volunteered to deal with these banks, and these producers believed then social and state organisations, such as Sekerana in Cupria, who had contracts with certain agricultural goods. They planted the tail, produced it, handed it over and got only one piece of paper, with which they filed various lawsuits with competent courts, so they went in, listening to others, to new costs, paying lawyers and court fees. They now have valid executive court rulings, but what our people say – they can take pictures with them. The question arises, i.e. we in Unique Serbia are asking whether this country is so poor that it can't separate fifty million dinars, because, roughly, there are so many claims from these agricultural producers, from the Great Plan and to Raznja, that it pays them either in nature, through sugar, or in money. They do not seek, or give up, interest and all, only ask for their blood-earned money, to collect their sweat and what they have invested in the production of these sugar tails. I don't think this is a great deal of money for the Republic of Serbia's budget, given that this classification already provides for 17 billion funds, or 15 billion 220 million, spent on special decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that, through a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these funds are allocated to 50 million dinars, to pay for the efforts and work of agricultural producers, i.e. Turned over the sugar tail. We have witnessed that in Vojvodina, many agricultural producers were in the same situation, but they charged their efforts and work by blocking various regional and local roads, so they used a bit of force to get their money. Should we advise farmers from the Pomorava County, and most of them from the Jagodin municipality, to go that way? We've kept them from that path so far, but we won't be able to do it anymore. You wouldn't want us to get into a situation where they apply force to exercise their rights, and they're certainly right. Their efforts, their work, their sweat turned into sugar, this country sold to someone, gave to someone and charged for it. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I think that, through the Ministry of Agriculture, and there is a request at the Ministry, with Mr. Milosavljevic, at this amount, to find a way to pay off these agricultural producers their efforts, their work, and to partially replace what they from their own pairs have invested in producing this sugar tail. Therefore, they are double damaged – they gave their money, they invested in production, they did not charge them, they did last year and years, so interest goes to their claims, and "Shelk 911" is in bankruptcy and God knows when they will get out of it and whether anyone in the privatisation will want to buy it. It's not these farmers' fault that someone once, in a time period earlier, mismanaged the company and put it in a position to go into bankruptcy from which there is no, at least in my opinion, exits. Therefore, I ask you to accept this amendment from the Members of the Single Serbia and to set the funds for the payment of these sugar tails to agricultural producers, while at the same time you, colleagues and fellow Members, would like to support this amendment in the voting day, to create a legal basis and legal condition – so that the Government, by special decision, can identify these funds, which are already on classification 420 in section 14, and pay off this sugar tail to the agricultural producers of the Pomorava County. I hope I've made myself clear and you'll have the understanding, the government and the MPs, that the people who have made some money and haven't charged, are finally waiting for the day to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14388	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No). Before we move on to the next amendment, I just want you to know that we're doing 18 hours today, and by 3:00 tomorrow, so you can plan your further commitments. On Article 5, the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Elvira Kovac. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Balint the Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14389	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I said yesterday that the People's MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians would vote against the proposed budget, for five reasons: because of the enormous public spending that threatens investment; because of the unconstitutional, or anti-constitutional position of Vojvodina in this draft budget; because there is not a word about denationalisation in the 2008 draft budget law; because national minorities are mentioned only in one place in the entire budget and because of the situation of agricultural producers. I would now like to talk about our amendment, the amendment of the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, which we have proposed to improve the position of those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who live on agriculture. So it's about agricultural producers. In particular, we proposed that the 2008 budget should be allocated to billions of dinars to reduce drought damage. I must tell you that the entire Republic of Serbia, and primarily the northern parts of the AP Vojvodina, has been hit by drought this year, or this summer, unremembered in the last 20 years. Only in the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topola, Kanjiža, Mali Ijoš, Novi Knezevic and Subotica, the damage amounts to just over 7.5 billion dinars. We have proposed this amendment that the government allocate a billion dinars to reduce the damage from drought, since we are realistic and we believe that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is unable, unfortunately, to pay all the damage to agricultural producers. I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not support this amendment. I don't understand why the government isn't aware of the fact that it has to help people who live on agriculture. Of course, this amendment would refer not only to agricultural producers living in Vojvodina, but would refer to all agricultural producers in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. But the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't think these people should be helped. And in the principle debate, I said that I also said in principle that I did not understand why the ministers belonging to DS, and Mr Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance, and Mr Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture, will not support agricultural producers, regardless of what the electoral slogan says – Life cannot wait. It seems life can wait, it seems that the ruling party, primarily, does not see the Democratic Party as important to help agricultural producers. The Democratic Party does not think it is important to help small and medium-sized enterprises, and I do not understand that. We have suggested that a billion dinars be allocated to agricultural producers, in a way that no single dinar must be taken from other positions. There is also an amount of 15.2 billion dinars, which will be deployed under a special act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we have suggested that out of these 15 billion dinars, a billion dinars be allocated to farmers who have suffered drought. It is not true that this amount could not be allocated to agricultural producers. There is simply no good intention of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I also need to replicate a little bit to Mr Petrovic, the People's MP of Unity Serbia, because he said earlier, speaking of the situation of agriculture, that agricultural producers from Vojvodina had applied force, that they had blocked the roads and had received certain funds. First of all, the farmers from Vojvodina didn't apply force, they blocked some roads for a few days, but I have to tell all the MPs, no matter what, none of the only dinars got. So, it's not true that the agricultural producers from Vojvodina got any money. I must also tell Mr Petrovic that we will certainly support their amendment, because we believe that it can also achieve the goal that we want to achieve by our amendment. For the sake of the public and for the information of the MPs, I must say that at the end of October, agricultural producers really blocked some roads in Vojvodina and demanded a conversation with Minister of Agriculture Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of Mr. Milosavljevic, sent a gendarme, as if it were some football hooligans, as if it were some criminals. Simply, several hundred agricultural producers were sent by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the gendarmes. This very well shows the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards agriculture, towards the life problems of the citizens of Vojvodina, and not only of the Vojvodina, but of all Serbia. I said in a principle debate that agricultural producers had not received a single dinar to this day, and when the flood took place several weeks ago in central Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia allocated 58 million dinars to the telephone session for those citizens. I must repeat that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done very well what it has responded immediately, which has given these people that help, we do not dispute it, it is okay, it is solving the life problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I do not understand why, from August to today, no single dinar has been allocated to agricultural producers. I must repeat the fact that on August 10th, the Alliance of Duke Hungarians sent a letter to the Serbian prime minister, and to the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to the Minister of Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that we then indicated that there was an unremembered drought in Vojvodina. At that time, we reminded the Government that it was a fundamental disaster that affected people who were engaged in warfare, livestock and fruit farming, that the average yields of soy, corn and sunflowers, according to experts, were reduced by 50 to 70% in some places in the northern Vojvodina and that it would be good for the government to react. We sent that letter on time, once again, August 10th. Of course, we did not get any answer to that letter, and the bigger the problem, the more the answer was not received, in the form of aid, or agricultural producers. From this place I would once again like to ask Mr Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that in the way he accepted, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the amendment of MP Srdjan Shain, accept this amendment and contribute actively to the reduction of the effects of drought in Vojvodina and throughout Serbia. Once again, I would like to repeat that this billion dinars, which we have proposed, are, in our opinion, feasible. The funds can be provided in the budget, and it would be very important to address the problems of citizens living on agriculture, which is their exclusive income. The government of the Republic of Serbia should not react in such a passive way that it does not respond in any way to the problems of people living from agriculture. I ask Mr Cvetkovic to accept, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14390	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14391	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to pick up where Mr. Pastor left off. At a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 19 September, I asked Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic what measures would be taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to eliminate the consequences of this natural disaster that occurred, on the one hand, in the northern Vojvodina and in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. The minister then acknowledged that this drought has indeed taken all the conditions of a natural disaster and that the government will take some measures within two to three weeks, i.e. to facilitate the position of farmers. This promise was made on 19 September 2007. It's been, instead of three weeks, three months, and the government hasn't given these people any help. Some things, however, she did. When agricultural producers, on October 30th, were revolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry's relationship to their problem, organised a protest, then the government, many times after the speaker, sent the gendarme to negotiate with them. These people spent the whole day by the highway, until someone from the Ministry did the courtesy of showing up there, of course, in late nights. All day it was raining, it was a terrible time, he came to these people, told his story, made some promises and, of course, returned to Belgrade. After that, on 8 November, the government concluded that it had accepted information from the Ministry of Agriculture on the damage suffered and found that the damage in Bhačka, Banat and Srem was 10%. This does not correspond to the truth, because the damage caused by drought only on the territory of five municipalities of the northern Vojvodina, so on the territory of the municipalities of Backa Topola, Kanjiža, Mali Ijoš, Novi Kneževec and Subotica, amounted to 7.5 billion dinars. That's certainly not 10%. Of course, congregations of the municipalities of these municipalities have also declared an elemental disaster in their areas. They did what they could. Furthermore, Mr Velimir Ilic received a delegation of agricultural producers from the north of Vojvodina a few days ago, which also made a firm promise that 8,000 dinars per hectare of farmland would be paid by the end of February on behalf of the damage caused by this year's drought. He also made a promise that this problem would be found on the agenda of the government of Serbia, at a cabinet session, held on Thursday (December 13th). You can assume that there was no word about this problem at that session of the Republic of Serbia's government. So, the agricultural producers were once again deceived by the government. This introduction was needed in order for everyone to get a clear picture of the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and agriculture. As for Elvira Kovac's amendment, she suggested that the amount of one billion dinars in the Ministry of Agriculture be intended to remove the consequences of the natural disaster. As expected by the government, it did not accept the opposition's amendment either. It explains that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the means to eliminate the consequences of the natural disasters are planned in another economic classification, so not in the one in which we have proposed, but in another economic classification. This is, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives, or representative of the government, a true hypocrisy. In fact, the government did not even think about declaring a natural disaster, but forgered the data and found that the damage in Bačka, Banat and Srem was 10%. For this reason, we have nothing left to do but suggest that from the economic classification 451 – subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, we define a part of the means to eliminate the effects of drought. If we had suggested that part of the economic classification of 484, therefore, damage compensations resulting from natural disasters, be defined to assist agricultural producers in the name of the drought, you would then have rejected the amendment with an explanation that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not declared an elemental disaster and you would be right. Of course, all I've said is form, and the essence is simple. The government does not want to help farmers who suffered huge damage in 2007. What's going on at the same time? For example, 14.12, the Minister in charge of the National Investment Plan, Mr Dragan Gilas, in Babusnica, states that the government provided nearly half a billion dinars from the funding of the National Investment Plan for the emergency recovery of damaged buildings, roads and bridges in the municipality. Please don't get me wrong, I don't mind helping the citizens of Babusnica, but we are against this double-arshin policy and against this way of implementing a flat regional development programme of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is the last thing the citizens, the agricultural producers of the northern Vojvodina deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14392	Thank you, Mr. Varga. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14393	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, are among those who want to say that when the government doesn't do something right, we should all say that and press it to do, first of all, by law, and then to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also need to convey something that has been happening with regard to this amendment, in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I said several times publicly that I was appalled by the situation at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which he attended, it was September 22nd, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, with his associates, which was 15th, it seems to me, 12 MPs who were members of that committee. On my proposal to put on the agenda the analysis of the catastrophic damage caused by the drought, especially in the northern part of Vojvodina, only one MP supported it. So neither the ruling coalition nor the opposition, and at the head of this committee is the president on this right, so the opposition, they weren't ready to talk about either drought or that famous ban on grain and olives exports. How, then, do you expect the government to take this seriously, if the representatives of the citizens in this house weren't willing to talk about this? I can't blame either of these, or those, but no one wanted to talk. Just so you know, the consequences of this damage have been seen quite realistically in the north of Backa, and I can give you the details of the report made by the commission in Backo Topoli. Only the damage of this drought is two billion and two hundred million dinars. These are the four annual budgets of the Bačka Topola municipality. So, Bačka Topola of this, without some serious help, can't recover, agricultural producers on the territory of the Bačka Topola municipality. I speak the example of Backa Topola, but it is so certain with all these municipalities that we have heard here, and so it is in most other municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So without your help, it's not working. So I suggested that these funds be more substantial, yesterday I was talking about not repeating myself. I don't see a way to talk, or to influence that this changes in the budget, if the MPs weren't ready at all to talk to the minister, etc. So I absolutely support this amendment and all the efforts of LSV to make agricultural producers in Vojvodina territory, in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia life and production more bearable. I also have a solution to all of this, so it doesn't happen in the future, which is that, first of all, local self-government gets their original incomes that will be able to correct this, and hence, the AP Vojvodina. Yesterday we heard from the minister that in this draft budget law for 2008, however, some criteria were managed that cannot be called systemically. They should be found as soon as possible, both for the position of local self-government and for the position of AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, and to allow for a steady flow of money, so that those who are much closer to the problem, much closer to the citizens, can influence and help, not to come into the situation, such as now, when corn is 20 dinars, when due to the high price of food pounds of pigs on the territory of the municipality of Backo Topol 60 dinars, that the Vojvodjans will not sow wheat because they have nothing to reap, that this country, God forbid, will not have flour for bread, that we do not come into opportunity, and that this relationship with the agricultural producer will happen, instead of the current half-euro, kilograms of pork will be 2.5 and three euros. Remember me well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14394	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Zoran Masic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dr Zoran Masic has submitted an amendment, and as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I will try, in the justified absence of Dr Zoran Masic, to explain this amendment. Mr. Minister, it is very strange that we have been talking here for a few days about the budget, in fact, the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, and that neither the Prime Minister nor the Resolute Ministers are here, that we are talking in principle and in particular. about the amendments, and, let's say, when it comes to agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, forestry and water production, not one day, not for one second, has he allowed any second to come here so that we can clear up some things with him, especially when it comes to amendments. Namely, Dr Zoran Masic proposed in article 5 of section 14, function 420, economic classification 451, and these are columns 6 and 8, to replace the amount of 15 billion and 220 million with 17 billion 520 million dinars. So it's about two billion and 300 million dinars. The explanation given by Zoran Mašić when submitting this amendment reads as follows: "The SRS believes that agricultural producers and agricultural production are in extremely difficult condition, and that the overall situation is worsened by the catastrophic drought in 2007 and the damages resulting from it. We therefore believe that in 2008 war and livestock production should be subsidized and regressed. We believe that the country is more concerned with the recovery of agricultural production than with the recapitalisation of some banks or overinvestment in Serbian ski resorts." I will turn a little bit to Minister Milosavljevic's statement on this drought, which he said several times over TV – we will help farmers by cutting off their land tax, agricultural land, and the short-term loans they have received will be extended. So, if they take it in 2007, they're due back in the spring of 2008, but they're not coming back in the spring of 2008, they're going to be longing in a year. That's a wonderful example. If we know, Mr. Minister, that the law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget has already been reduced from your side, so it personally deprived the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs on the Committee on Agriculture, I cannot understand how you will extend short-term loans by reducing the agricultural budget, and you must continue to grant the same short-term loans in 2008. Tell me from which of your reserves, where you're prolonging your loans in a year, i.e. Minister of Agriculture, and then, in that same year 2008, you have to give new ones. You promised it, and besides, there's an election campaign going on, and you're not only promising short-term loans and delays, but you started going home and carrying pots inside the basil seed, and you're doing propaganda and you're asking if you're going to vote for the Democratic Party. I'm telling the truth, what's going on in the field. They bring pots, bells, pots show, ask, survey – please, who are you going to vote for? Astonished, the welcome one looks at the pot, the potted pot, the landless pot, and the Vojvodina, thank God, I'm talking about the North Banat County and South Back, there's no land, but that's why there's basil seed. I don't know why a basil. I know what a basil branch is for, but I don't really know why basil seed is without land. It is a campaign launched by the DSS, to speed up Boris Tadic's election as president of Serbia by carrying a vase with the country-free basil seed. I'm really interested in what kind of campaign it is when the seed can't pop up, because it's not in the ground, it's in an empty pot. These are the empty DSS promises and will result in Tomislav Nikolic winning January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14396	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) On article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mikic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. The word has a People's MP, Predrag Mikic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14397	Fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on the basis of Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Paragraphs 145 and 163 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. In Article 5, Section 14, function 420, economic classification 451, the amount in columns 6 and 8: '15 billion 220 million' is replaced by '20 billion 170 million', and in the economic classification 451 words: 'The allocation and use of the assets of this aproprietation will be carried out by a special act of the Government', are replaced by the words: 'The schedule of use of these funds will be carried out for the purchase of agricultural products and the subsidisation of breeding flocks under a specific programme established by the Committee for Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly, and on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia'. In this 2008 draft budget, the allocated resources are not sufficient to help overcome as much as possible the disadvantages caused by farmers and those involved in livestock farming. I am addressing the ruling coalition's MPs to vote on this amendment in the day of voting, as this will also show an understanding of the solution to the problem. I'll remind you that this year has been very bad for us as far as weather conditions are concerned, it's been very difficult to bring the cycle of agricultural production to an end in an open-air factory. Farmers were faced with a problem of drought and city. We would like to point out this amendment to you that funds in the budget should increase precisely because the prices of agricultural products are as real as possible, so that farmers, by selling agricultural products, can survive and, in the next sowing, first of all, think about the spring sowing, restore the production process. As for the means of subsidising the breeding herds, I will give an example of a cattleman who is involved in the production of milk. One liter of milk costs during the sale of dairy from 18 to 20 dinars, and in stores, the final consumer pays the price of 55 to 60 dinars. All of this would be normal, because whoever makes it needs to get the money, whoever processes it needs to get the money and, normally, the dealer who sells it needs to make a certain profit. I'll remind you of one example. When the Ministry of Agriculture in the last term brought in funds for the lending of agricultural producers, right, for the purchase of racial throats, above all, I mean racial heifers, non-sutomist peasants sold at the price of 1800 euros. I'm telling you this precisely because in my life, in Sombor, where I live, I've met a lot of people who have been so deceived since then by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. In what way were they deceived? They were deceived precisely because the Minister of Agriculture then encouraged these agricultural producers to expand production so that, his words, they lived as well as they did, a little bit more, and they had more. But what do they have today? Today they have loans that the Ministry of Finance presented as favourable loans. They've got so much money they can't pay interest, and they don't have a principal to talk about. From these examples, we can conclude that the peasant is the most difficult one in the entire chain of production. If Serbian citizens want to live truly better, in the next election -- with all their heart for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14398	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Stupar. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14399	On behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Section 14, Section 14, Function 420, Classification 621, and there has been an error here: instead of 450, it should have written 451. As far as this amendment is concerned, Mr. Minister, I would like you to explain to me, as an MP, as well as to the citizens of Serbia what it means to purchase domestic financial assets. In the amendment I submitted, we asked for it to be a subsidy. Does this purchase of domestic financial assets constitute loans? Why did we ask for this to be indicated, that instead of "procuring domestic financial assets" it says "subsidy"? The subsidy, respected citizens, agricultural producers, is aid to agricultural producers and they participate in a large part of the creation of a social product. Therefore, a serious country, i.e. You as a minister have to make sure that you help the citizens who are agricultural producers so that they can work even better. To explain what it looks like, here's what pure subsidies mean. You have citizens who are in poor material condition. Today they can't pay info and then the serious state, in that part, says, you know, you have small receipts, you can't pay rent costs, everything that goes through info in Belgrade, but there are certain conditions by which you can have a subsidy. Citizens are taking it and one of them is making that subsidy, paying a reduced rent, and the state has to replace the difference with its citizens. You, Mr. Minister, have certainly not participated in these seven years since the arrival of DOS to power to create, in general, agricultural production and all this is happening. I think Serbia's geopolitical position and what a situation it is in has made it possible, with one strategic goal, to make sure for seven years that in all Serbia, agricultural producers do not have to think whether or not there will be droughts this year. We've got all the conditions, we've got water, and we haven't been able to make sure they have irrigation in seven years. Look, Mr. Minister, what's going on in Sword? I don't think there are any areas in Europe like our Sword, where all the conditions we have, God and nature have given us that, we have sources of warm water. 15 years ago, foreigners came to that Sword, asked for conditions, wanted to enter agricultural production, to finance it, and the whole of the Sword could have greenhouses. We have hot water sources of 80 or 90 degrees. So, all of the 12 months we could have produced, had enough food for all of Serbia and, in that case, took off. So in seven years, Mr. Minister, a serious state, which has been thinking about its citizens, who participate in a large part of the creation of a social product, had to take care of it, instead of doing what you did last year, when Mr. Dinkic was a minister, so he went to share those loans. According to what you said, there are three billion here, and you left that in a special act, the government will determine who these funds will be allocated to. What does that mean? That means you're going to take these three billion, so you're going to choose, by special act, who's going to receive the funds and who's going to take the loans. The subsidy implies that all agricultural producers have the right, because they participate, to have a part of the budget returned to them. Look how you've made a mistake now, the whole government, your rabbit producers are here, our factories, and you have a lack of rabbit in the market. Did you pay for the sunflower? Did the citizens get the money? We've just heard that sugar beets producers haven't been compensated, and they've done their job fairly, and they've delivered what they should have done, and the state isn't paying. What did you do now? You have made a decision to import temporarily, if you have something, come out, Mr. Minister, so defend yourself, you have decided that you will import Zeetine, so that whoever has the monopoly, Miskovic and those others who do so. Instead of stimulating domestic production, if you'd invested that money difference into even bigger production, you'd have solved the easiest, so there's not enough rabbit, you'd be bringing in the rabbit. Now you have a chance to hear what it looks like when in a pre-election campaign Serbia, where loans are granted. Thus, Minister Dinkic visited the Pomoravski County during previous elections and visited a successful farmer who received a loan, built a bull farm, to see how it works, if the citizen is satisfied, if everything goes well. When visiting that citizen, Mr Dinkic asked him – are you satisfied with the loan and what you got? He says, well, I'm happy, look, I've got a ton of bulls, over 50 bulls, I'm thinking about spreading it, and it's going great. Ask him further Dinkic, would you be pleased if you got another loan, and he – how could you not, I would very much like to use it. Then Dinkic tells him – well, you have to buy that loan, that is, to spend and buy equipment for the husband of a cow. That's the way you gentlemen treat farmers. The man's got the bulls, and the minister's suggesting he buys the equipment to milk cows. If that's how it's done, and he's making bulls, it's no wonder milk is so expensive. And finally, Mr. Minister, in the answer I received from you, you say that the amendment is not accepted for a reason because by accepting it, it would increase the deficit to that amount. I'm responsibly saying that you haven't even considered, personally, all the amendments of the SRS. Why? Because you're saying that it's contrary to Article 26(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budgetary system law. The SRS submitted all amendments in accordance with Article 26. Budgetary system law. If we've been increasing funds somewhere, we've been cutting them down on the other hand. So we had exclusive respect for Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. What I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, once again is, how long will you, through these proposals, leave the funds to be seconded, as you say – the schedule and use of the funds for this appraisal will take place under a special government act? Why, Mr. Minister, by a special act of government? Why do agricultural producers today in Serbia not know what the government's position is, will it be a milk subsidy, for meat? The agricultural producer, if he's going to do some business, needs to know what the state's response is, whether or not that state will take care of him. Whether to hand over the cereal, whether to hand over the sugar beet, whether to hand over the sunflower, and then get the paper, as a colleague from Jagodina said earlier, will get a court ruling and then won't be able to achieve it. I'll show you on one occasion that the government has no equal relationship with its citizens. As an agricultural producer, I deliver soybean, sunflower or any product and the state provides me with paper that I delivered, has taken over, no compensation, no payment. On the other hand, as a citizen, I have a duty to pay certain things, or rent and all that goes with it. Since I didn't get the money from the state, I don't pay for it, and then you take it and you send me a solution, so you send me the interest, then the financial police, so someone who threatens to take the property, to confiscate the funds. It shows you have no serious access to your citizens. If the state owes something to a citizen, how can you take measures of coercion and coercion to seek to pay for something that you haven't fulfilled? I guess the same relationship must have a state to its citizen. As soon as you haven't settled your obligations, you can't ask me to pay for something, because you didn't create conditions for me to pay for it. So it's absolutely incorrect what you wrote here. It's absolutely incorrect that you have the same attitude towards the citizens. A serious state has to take care of that. Therefore, Mr. Minister, for the next time, you will have to, when you attend the Assembly, read more in detail the amendments of the SRS and hope that some amendments will be accepted. It's impossible none of these amendments are good. You've had the opportunity to hear professional analysis, expertise from Jorgenka Tabakovic. It's impossible that no amendment is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14400	On the occasion of this amendment, MP Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, that Serbia, whom the whole world respected, respected and appreciated, rested on the democratic ethnos of its peasants. Today they are turned into second-class citizens. Go through Serbia, you will see that it grows into thorns and weeds, that it looks like some countries from which God raised his hands and said good night. It speaks in vain of the European Union and of some bright future in vain. In the previous days, I have, on several occasions, been in the part of Serbia bordering Kosovo and Metohija, in Prokuplje, Kursumlia, Leban, in those parts of Serbia that are slowly dying. I mentioned from this pay phone the border of Serbia towards Kosovo, on the territory of the municipality of Kursumli, 108km of border, that this part of Serbia is disappearing, that Serbia is dying. You have villages where no one lives anymore, three villages in the Kursumlian municipality are completely empty, in six-seven villages of four, five or six old women. That's what this government has given up a long time ago. We don't need any greater evil. But someone here, unfortunately, found it appropriate to say that I manipulate military reservers who justifiably protest for more than a hundred days, seeking their elemental rights. Well, I now abuse the role of a man who is president of the Democratic Party of Serbia and a MP and I urge them to join the Democratic Party of Serbia, I urge them to boycott the elections. Gentlemen, they've been protesting for a hundred days. I didn't invite anyone to join anywhere, but that protest is justified. I said the same thing about abuses because I'm an MP for a congratulatory opposition party. I've raised my voice against the murder of Topcider, I've raised my voice against abuse in all possible privatisations -- "Knjiz Milos", we've now had "The Slave Houses", we've got Serbia's monopolies, we've got the PIC Zemun, we've got the Irons, we've got a light of abuse. These people are justly seeking what belongs to them. There's no political manipulation. It is sad that one state has the authority to deafen it, which hides, which allows military reservers, not only the former, but also the future, to turn into citizens of the second order in this dreary and sensitive part of Serbia. They are not Palestinians; they are not Kurds; they have their own homeland. Serbia is their homeland. At the invitation of Serbia, they went to the trenches in 1999, not wanting to flee, to be deserters, to emigrate, but to risk their lives to defend their country. Some of the judges at the Municipality Court in Kursumlia, some of the presidents of the municipality and parties of the ruling coalition, members of their families, have charged hundreds of people, even a lot of high fees, or fees for unpaid diaries, or part of unpaid diaries. From Serbia's budget, I'm talking about Serbia's budget, hundreds of millions of dinars have been spent, perhaps over a billion dinars, to make payments. Now you can't say - one's fine, and the other's wrong. So, the ghost came out of the bottle, Pandora's box was open. We must not at this difficult moment, right at the border with Kosovo and Metohija, have rebellious, angry, rainy, disappointed, disciplined, demoralized people. Why not share calls for mobilization and reserve in that part of Serbia? No one's gonna take them. It's a very dangerous story. What I did, I mentioned that problem on several occasions from this pay phone, and then these people came to me. I said, okay, like I never turned down anyone in those cases of oppressed, oppressed people, poor people. Well, 90% of them don't work, they don't even have the most elementary church. I said if I had to, my office would represent you, that's what I'm saying, and I'll always say it. Because of the Topcider case, because of the shooting of two guards, I only suffer damage. Because of the attempt to prove that Ramush Haradinaj, Agim Ceku, Hashim Thaci are war criminals, I have suffered great problems, my family and my children have been threatened. There's no money, there's no abuse and there's no price. I'll always raise my voice, because it's a struggle for truth and justice, whether someone likes it or not. I spoke to the President of the Republic three weeks ago, again yesterday. He must be the president of all citizens, he must receive a delegation from those people. I've spoken to the Chief of Staff, Mr. Ponos, and they're his soldiers. I also addressed Vidi Petrovic-Skero, president of the Serbian Supreme Court. Why? Because some of them have paid for enormous living. Other disputes and lawsuits stand in drawers, the third being rejected, for God's sakes, because of incompetence, the fourth being rejected, for God's sake, for obsolescence. There must be a harmonised and unique practice, not – Serbia to someone's mother, someone's stepmom. They've been robbing the thresholds, protesting for days. Last night there were several thousand in Kursumlia, there were before I went to Kursumli, and since I was in Kursumlia. And there will be. There's no manipulation, there's only an advocate to correct an injustice, for something that's fair, honest, objective. Don't play with fire, it's my message to the people in power, and so is my message to my colleagues from the SRS. Okay, you solve that problem, join all those people in the SRS, but solve their problem, and then you have a lot of right to say -- here, we've solved the problem. So I'm not calling for any illegal activity, I'm not calling for anything that's not allowed. I cannot prevent people if they want to join the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia, which is fighting for justice and the truth, whether they like it or not. They will not boycott the election, but they will boycott individual presidential candidates. Those who do not want to protect their realization, to fulfill their righteous demands, will be boycotted. Go ahead, gentlemen, go, make a rally in Prokuplje, in Kursumlia, no matter which party it is. So no one can manipulate people anymore. They appreciate, value, respect, or disrespect those who advocate their rights, regardless of whether it's about the reservers, the slave houses shareholders, whether it's about members of the union at PIC Zemun, the Irons, and other places where injustices seem to be. The elections will best show what these people, who are desperately, for more than a hundred days, protesting and seeking their rights, thinking, and that is no longer just the Cup and Kursumli, are also Lebane, Doljevac, Blace, Leskovac, it will be Nis, because I repeat, because of the various arches and because of the manipulations of this situation. All citizens must be respected and respected in the same way, and it's not just a story of money, of diaries, of money, it's a story of human dignity of honor, of morality, of honesty, of truth and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14402	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14403	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Batić, you didn't send any messages to the SRS in a very good way, because I assume you know that if there is a problem, it needs to be solved by the government, it can't be solved by the opposition party. As for that, you've had your chance, you've been in power, that relationship is completely clear to you. As for the SRS, when we are in power, we will solve the problems of all citizens. We will not solve the problems of our members or our clients. When we advocate solving any problem, we advocate, in principle, that it be decided that they too have or have no rights. In this case, we are convinced that they have a basis for complaining and that the state had to consider it much more seriously. We didn't come from a party base, in any case we don't call from a pay phone to join the SRS, that's what our field activists do. I don't have to explain to you how many SRS members there are, you had a chance to see it in the paper the other day, 457 grand, I don't know the exact number, because it changes from day to day. As for voters, or Serbian citizens, they will have the opportunity to express their commitment very quickly, and I am convinced that they will vote with all their hearts on January 20th for Tomislav Nikolic, that Tomislav Nikolic will win, and then we will not only win this reserver problem, but all the problems that have hit this country since October 5th to resolve, that we finally start to bring down the DOS regime, headed by Boris Tadic. Then we will begin to bring the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia slowly out of this economic and social misery that the DOS regime has brought them into.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14404	Here you go, Mr. Batic, so let's get back to the budget amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14405	I mean, I didn't want the controversy to go to any other side, simply, someone mentioned me and my manipulations, and a fellow MP from the SRS. I've never invited anyone from this pay phone to join the DHSS. If that's what people do in the field and why they recognize themselves, if they're going to join a party, I don't think it has anything to do with it. Probably, people listen and find some sympathy, some of their motives and reasons, noting that DHSS was in DOS time and had most of the government in both Kursumlia and Prokuplje, had its own organization, which is now reactivated, but it's not a topic. So I agree that opposition parties, and that is the alphabet of democracy and parliamentaryism, point to the mistakes and problems of the authorities. They're by definition a correction of power, they're saying what's wrong with what the government is doing, and I said this isn't right. Serbia should not be extinct in that part, it is not right for us to have self-servers and gems in the city that have nothing to do with it, there is only a picture with dead people and photographs, and it does not matter who will be in power at all. It is only important that the promises be fulfilled, so that the people who protest may not be found, God forbid on these dead bodies, lest it be in that people's land; do not cut down the donkey to the green grass. They waited a long time and their demands were justified. Whoever fights to meet these requirements will find their sympathy, others will encounter their condemnation, elections are under way. We will see that in that part of Serbia, individual parliamentary candidates, of course, will, above all, be held in power, because they decide on the fate of all citizens, not just the reservers. There will be elections, there will be stands, there will be a rally, and we will see what reactions there will be in that part of Serbia. DHSS supported Cedomir Jovanovic. He also struggles to meet the demands of all the people who are oppressed, and the reservers are absolutely suppressed and oppressed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14406	The word is by the magistrate Srboljub Zivanovic, about the amendment of MP Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14407	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I go to the amendment, I would say, or answer one question. I don't know who said hello at Skopje airport when there was a big fog, when the planes landed, that's Boris Tadic, with the greatest villain of the Serbian people, Hashim Thaci. It is likely that people will decide on January 20th whether to vote on those who have continued to deal with crime all this time, in continuity, as Boris Tadic, or to give a voice to honest and honest candidates, such as Tomislav Nikolic. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not an agricultural producer, but I do this production and I know the problems of villages and peasants well. The first thing I would point out is this criminal privatisation and kidnapping, or the usurpation of the land that the farming cooperatives had, which are now sold to tycoons, so they have now increased their wealth, which is measured by thousands and thousands of hectares. I fear that, as announced abroad, buyers will come to buy our land, our properties, so our agricultural producers will serve as a rental labor force in these fields. It is very important to note that all these agricultural goods had a water system, a division of the country and taking, that system is closed. What is also an interesting question is that privatisation of enterprises that could absorb agricultural products from farmers, such as dairy, is also criminally done. Let's look at Imlek, let's look at the Newsad Milkler, the Subotic Milkler, it's all criminalized. I'm gonna go after this assembly speaker once, and I'm not gonna have time to explain to you now, and I'm gonna document how these criminal privatisations were done. The time has come for agricultural producers today to be users of social assistance. Unfortunately, they can no longer match their production with sales or consumption. See how much money they need to secure the repromation, the instructions, so they can start a normal production on their holdings, so they can sow it and sow it. If a farmer goes to the estate today to get fuel into his tractors, he needs 50 euros. You may not have a lot of those 50 euros, it may be one of them, but see if any agricultural producers can today, and in what way, earn those 50 euros. I'll ask you a question. These 100 euros of subsidies per sown area, or 90 euros per sown throat, were valid until December 1st. People tried to hand over their drowned throats, but the slaughterhouses couldn't accept them. It is now happening that these 90-euro subsidies cannot be accepted because they have not given up their throats and cannot surrender them, because it was valid until December 1st. Yes, the price of these drowned throats has been reduced, the price of agricultural products has been reduced, and with those 100 euros you pay, in fact, what the farmer has earned, which is his. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14408	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Milenkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, because Mr Batic obviously misread me. But in order to clarify any doubt, I'll start with the following things. Unlike some, we Serbian radicals speak only in the language of facts, so I will show the power of Dr. Vladan Batic, who also has the access to his "demonochrist" party in the package. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you see the citizens of Serbia, that nothing in Serbia is free anymore, so Mr Batic's help is not free, and we all know that, in a word, free things, after that, in the future, they cost you a lot, too. Even Mr Batić became, at one point, sympathetic to this free legal aid that was to be offered, initiated only by the noblest feelings, the brightest principles of morality, and then all this was corrupt when the DHSS access card went in the package with this power of attorney. How recognizable DHSS and Mr Batić are by their popularity, commitment and respect for the principles of equality, rule of law and justice, there are many examples. One of the eclectic examples is "Sabela." I have no intention of further plowing, Serbia's citizens will assess, either on the basis of the argument made, or on the basis of personal or party sympathy, although they have already given their court on 21 January 2007, and will give it on 20 January and 3 February 2008, when they will decide whether the government will continue, as they have so far, in the interests of ministers and state officials, or Serbian Duke Tomislav Nikolic will do so for the good of the state and all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14410	Thank you. On article 5, section 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, section 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, section 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jevremovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. Paragraphs 145 and 163 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the draft Budget Law, which reads: "Article 5, Section 15, Function 412, Economic Classification 472 "The Social Protection Compensation from the Budget", the text in column 5, under the name of the Economic Classification, is amended and reads as follows: "This budget fee is intended to assist persons who have lost their jobs in the process of restructuring and privatisation." The explanation and opinion of the Government reads: 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason why the change in the purpose of the funds is proposed, so that these funds would be used to help those who are out of work in the process of restructuring and privatisation. However, the purpose of these funds is to take measures and actions that precede the termination of the working relationship of workers in resolving the working status of extra employees, in terms of providing funds to invest in new employment – self-employment, increasing the opportunities for new employment or overcoming the period of seeking new employment through active job-seeking'. I don't understand how many other workers you want to leave without a job so these funds can be allocated to them. It is clear to all of us that this privatisation, in most cases, has ruined companies that have been privatised and a large number of workers remain on the street. In Sremska Mitrovica, where I come from, it is visible at every step, from an industrial zone where there used to be over 10,000 people, providing existence to their families, to the Bureau, where these 10,000 people are now staying, in search of new employment, and this is due to your privatisation and transition. Some of the Mitrovica's powerful enterprises are mostly destroyed and some of them are on the verge of collapse. What is interesting, what I would like to draw particular attention to, is that, recently, the Sremska Mitrovica Stockholders' Association has sent a letter to several addresses in Belgrade asking questions. This was also addressed to the president of the Privatisation Committee Nikola Novakovic, who tried hard and gave a certain answer. A question has been addressed to the Privatisation Agency, from which we have received a certain answer, i.e. shareholders, but is also addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, where the Stockholders' Association requires intervention, aid to launch a privatisation review procedure in the ADSL "Mitros" from Sremska Mitrovica. The privatisation was carried out in 2005 and the company has since continued to generate losses A large number of workers have lost their jobs, accumulated unpaid earnings, not to count the rest. Although minority shareholders have almost 27% of their capital in their possession, corporate management treats them with such a failure to have capital as if it were all his, so only minority shareholders and states suffer the damage. People addressed various privatisation agencies, through the Securities Committee, and eventually asked certain questions. Finally, a logical question arises – what is the purpose of privatisation if it gives these results and leaves behind poverty, unemployment, bureaucracy, which is inefficient, an option that is only formal, on paper, so you can't say that you don't have them, but of them there's no use. How is it possible for all of us to be better if only for some? How do we explain to ourselves that it's democratic for individuals that the law is a mother, and most stepmoms, and in that majority, you generally encounter minority shareholders? In the end, it will best be the Belgrade Stock Exchange, trade at a higher or lower price, its profits will draw, as monopolies, even though the first three founders, banks, are in bankruptcy. Who do we talk to? By embezzlement and indifference of the state, the majority of the owners will come to 100% ownership for small money, or by sucking up capital, they will benefit themselves, and it will leave nothing to us. Do you know how many such examples there are? Is that what the point of action is, and can you answer that question? So, Mr Nikola Novakovic was asked by the Privatisation Agency and information was received on the control of the enforcement of the contracted obligations in the privatisation entity, and it is said: "In the process of controlling the implementation of the contracted obligations of customers, three controls were carried out at the headquarters of the privatisation entity, and the last one was carried out on 8/02." What's interesting about this report is that on the day of sale in the entity there were 913 employees, and on the day of control – 183 employees. It is particularly interesting that certain workers have sued the company and that certain workers have received judicial decisions, executions and money, and that certain workers have failed to obtain it, although the same cases are at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14412	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The People's MP Veljko Kovacevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). By law on the budget system, does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 5 of the 17 amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft budget bill of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, Mr. Minister, I didn't have much time to speak in principle, because I respected the time of the Parliament's group, but I used about 7 minutes, but this time I'll try to explain something more to you. Unfortunately, my reports always refer to this division, so far it's 14, but now it's split 17, to explain that you should take care and that, from where you transferred more money, return the money to division 14, and it's about the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. In Article 5, Section 17, function 450, economic classification 451, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of 10 billion 615 million is replaced by 8 billion 615 million, which means that this amendment proposes that 2 billion be transferred to division 14. The SRS considers that agricultural producers need to be provided with larger funds for short- and long-term loans, which will be used to create new production, purchase machinery, construction of plastics and greenhouses, purchase of a irrigation system, raise multi-annual plantations of vineyards and orchards and purchase of quality breeding livestock. I think these investments in 2008 are more important than subsidising Serbia's inefficient and uneconomic railways. If we're talking about this now, I'm going to repeat some of my story about about two months ago, when I pointed out what happens when it comes to the Serbian Railways and what happens when the only plant in Serbia that deals with the electrical and diesel locomotives and rail vehicles collapses, when the company is destroyed. It's about Mr. Ivkovic, who, in addition to buying Shinvoz, buys Jugopapir, founded a TTC "Logistic" company with four or five employees, and a company called Kargo. This Mr. Ivkovic, in agreement with the director of the Railways of Serbia, succeeds, along with all the possible elements that say that for two years, by cutting off electric locomotives and wagons, selling this as old iron "Zenica", comes up with certain amounts, amounts that are not paid at the Shinvos factory, where workers have been working for two years on that cut, to transfer all this to these three companies, which are "Jugopapir", TTC "The Logistic" and "Kargo". Then what's going on? His Shinvoss went bankrupt. That story I told at the pay phone when he was a resolute minister, it came to an end. There is a bankruptcy manager Nebojsa Bajic, a man in whom I have sincere confidence that, however, he will do more for those workers who have lost their jobs and who are now at the Bureau. There is another point, that these three companies, owned by Ivković, the firm Jugopapir, TTC "Logistik" and "Kargo", are now asking Shinvos for their company, as a fourth, 450 million dinars. This is one of the reasons, Minister, which is why I asked for 17 functions, 450, EC 451, in columns 6 and 8, to be reduced from 10 billion to 8 billion 615 million, and to be transferred to agricultural producers, because of what I had previously said, explaining the amendment of Dr Zoran Mašić, I brought out some of my visions about what would happen to that promise made by Minister Milosavljevic about short-term loans that would be extended in a year due to this drought that hit us in 2007. Again, I wonder, when you are already prolonging loans, which should remain in 2008, for 2009, how, Mr. Minister, since you have reduced the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs, will now respect and give new agricultural short-term loans in 2008? I don't think the minister will be able to respect that. I'm sorry, he's from DS, but apparently, you're jumping into your own mouth and using every opportunity to help some things, especially agriculture, that suffered a disaster after 2003, and now again, four years later, in 2007, you do something like this. I was talking about the malversions that were happening, and they were happening especially at a time when the Minister of Agriculture was Ivana Dulic-Markovic; it was long-term and non-refundable loans for agriculture. You, at last, must put an accent there, not just you, but certain institutions that can put an end to it, so that once this agricultural producer feels that this Serbian government is taking care of it, and you, finance ministers, don't care about it. Once again, I have to find out, so take DS care of something else, run a pre-election campaign, by going from house to house, by wearing an empty vase with a basil seed, without a country in it, and thus wanting to show the people again that they are making empty promises to this campaign, as is that empty vase. That is why the SRS, acting for so many years, shows that it is ready to lead Serbia and this Serbia will be led by Tomislav Nikolic after 20 January.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14414	Anybody else answer for a word? The People's MP Veljko Kovacevic has his word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14415	Dear MPs, as you can see, the accent has been given to the agriculture budget and our proposals are for the subsidy to go to agriculture. Let's do a dipression. We had a socialist Yugoslavia, which by arrangement was called socialist, and by economy – industrial. As far as we can see, the industry has now gone to our privatisation, and there's nothing from what's privatized, so we're left with agriculture. And you can see for yourself that through these amendments we're putting an accent on what we have left, what we still have healthy left, which we haven't destroyed. Therefore, in this amendment, which was mentioned by the gentleman before me, and also in the previous amendment, which he had avoided by a hairline, but did not foresee, in section 15, function 473, economic classification 451, in columns 6 and 8, that two billion and seven hundred million, as approximately intended for tourism, were reduced by 600 million in favour of agriculture. Why? Because most of the tourism organisations are now privatized, and the question is, how do we go to absolute privatisation and the state subsidise? For what? I'll tell you now. Part of the funds is intended for tourism organisations, destination management, organisations and institutions, organisations for tourism development projects and tourism organisations of Serbia, as well as for tourism infrastructure, for ski resorts and modernisation. You see, there comes a moment when ski resorts will be private, there will come a moment when we will no longer have an interest, as a state of Serbia, in helping tourist organisations, because it is all private. The moment should come when the private tourist part returns to the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, it is not a waste to help at this stage, but we believe that these 600 million differences should be directed at the subsidy. As my predecessor said, the subsidy is aid. Now, help can be different and it doesn't have to be just a subsidy. My peasants, out there in the weeds end, don't say they need help. They say they need ransom stations, whether state, or at the municipal government level, or from the budget to separate them. Because they want to work, they want to produce, but they have nowhere to place, through budget policy and state policy, their products. It's not hard for them to do anything, but they don't know what they're going to do with the products. It's one aid, a subsidization for the creation of ransom cells. By opening up ransom stations in places, we help ourselves. They have bigger production, bigger market, cheaper food, and that's why the circle is closed – and it helps us. So, through the budget, investment in the future, in agriculture, it'll never bother you. We have, about, that proposal and I would ask you to take this amendment of colleagues and what I said into consideration. So we're not reducing the budget in mass, but we're looking, if we can, for that to go as a subsidy to agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14416	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go. There's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14417	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, whenever we have adopted the budget, we are told – okay, to define a portion of the funds for some other purposes, but you must find a place and space where these funds will be taken. Exactly, in each of its amendments, the SRS says where the funds should be defined, where we think the funds are more necessary, and we always talk about where these funds should be taken. Because they're mostly defined somewhere not because the state there is most needed, but because some other interests are personal interests. Remember the law we passed in that mandate, and it's about ski resorts and the possibility of privatising a ski resort? The MP, Mr Veljko Kovacevic, proposed an amendment to a member of the 5th law, said that the part that is separated for ski resorts, and we know very well, but the picture was not set – who will be the future owner of these ski resorts. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, when you were dividing Serbia into sprawls, determined exactly who it would belong to -- someone's NIS, someone's EPS, someone's other fortunes, and some, next to the lottery of Serbia, not to name them now, and ski resorts. Once a minister, who is very understanding about the economy, you've set up these ski resorts, among other things. So, the amendment reads, "In Article 5, division 15, function 473, economic classification 451, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of 2,710 million million is replaced by 2,110 million dinars," and 600 million dinars of these funds, precisely the funds provided for ski resorts, Mr Kovacevic underlined. Because this part of the budget says – Subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. Some of the assets of this 100 million dinar appraisal are for tourist organizations, destinations... a little fine writing, destination management of organisations and institutions and organisations for tourism development projects. We believe that part of the funds should remain and be placed, because Serbia has not yet done a tenth of what it can on tourism, and after that, the funds return, precisely, from that tourism. Then comes the part relating to the "Skistations of Serbia" -- for construction, modernisation and infrastructure equipment of the ski centres. I don't want to talk, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we had an extremely well-equipped ski resort in Zlatibor, called Tornik, I don't want to talk about Kopalnik, ski resorts on the Kopalnik, who are friends of the Democrats, on the wings of the white angel, destroyed. But I'm going to talk about that, when we adopted the ski resort law, it was clear who had the aspirations to take over that part of the tourist offer and that the state was investing, and that later, maltene, for 'thank you nice', such as all the privatisations, a little stronger privatisation done, were handed over to that gentleman. We don't think that would be desirable. The amendment, the government said, is not accepted for the reason why it proposes a reduction in the funding for tourism subsidies of 600 million. Not in tourism, but on a specific consumer part of the budget. It is said further – which would significantly reduce the resources necessary for the development of this area... In the light of the amendment, it is stated that there is a need to increase the funding for subsidies in agriculture. Of course, Mr. Minister, here, three or four amendments before this were, exactly, saying where to get the money, where to direct them in agriculture, and get that 600 million from here. However, it is not contained in the amendment. If you were to read the explanation of the amendment, then you would see that in the explanation of the amendment it was written. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the time comes for the amendment to be adopted, I also propose to the MPs of the ruling coalition that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14418	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to article 5 of the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, here's an amendment that I think is the result of an accident, or a lack of understanding of what donations to NGOs mean. I trust that Miss Jovanovic thought it was an NGO based on what is usually meant by that name. I have to say that he split up 19, function 10, economic classification 481 refers to NGOs that are just so unfortunately called. Otherwise, it's about organizations of fighters, associations of military disabled people, association of war fighters from the 1990s and some associations dealing with the cultivation of the Liberation tradition. I am absolutely sure that Ms. Jovanovic did not intend to take away these organisations funds to finance the project envisaged, but probably some other NGOs, which she and I do not have a positive opinion about either. If that wasn't a mistake, then we have a serious problem, but I don't believe any of the SRS MPs have anything to do with funding these associations, which are gathering, first of all, patriotic forces, meaning wartime military people and fighters from previous wars. However, there is another problem. Mr. Minister, the funds for this purpose are set at 65 million. I have to tell you that last year, those funds were projected to be 72 million. I don't know why this reduction occurred, even though I wrote you a letter myself, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs asked for 120 million dinars in this position. I have to tell you what's being financed from these 120 million dinars, and then you'll see the clear justification of our request. Namely, these funds are financed by the Banjsko-climatic recovery of military disabled people, especially those from the 1990 wars, because, although this is the Law on Boring-Invalidal Protection, the lack of funds for this position in the budget of previous years has led to the financing of this Banjsko-Climatical recovery of the most difficult military disabled. Also, these funds finance scholarships, first of all, children of fallen fighters and children of wartime military disabled, who are in higher schools and universities, and not financed through regular funds from the ministry. We finance these funds and the purchase of medicines and some products that are not on the positive list, which cost a lot, so wartime wartime disabled people can't pay them out of their incomes, because, unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries where martial law enforcement, i.e. health protection of wartime disabled people, is not free of charge, but is at the level of health care of employees. It is clear to you and everyone else that the level of health care for employees does not meet the needs of health care, first of all, of wartime military disabled, who spend their entire lives sick and considerable resources on the supply of drugs and certain preparations, first of all, on the basis of vitamin B. I would not explain it further. I have to admit that there's also my mistake, which is because on this format that we've been given I wasn't sure if the amount in that position was 85 million or 65 million. I received information that it was 85 million, which would make us absolutely satisfied and not agree to the amendment. Given that I found out afterwards, and the time for submitting the amendments has expired, I see that I missed the opportunity to correct that position, otherwise I would certainly ask for an amendment to increase the funds in this position, precisely for these reasons that I told you, because it is not certain that in 2008, or it is not safe when in 2008, a law on martial protection will be passed, which would correct this illogicality and allow, first of all, Banj-Climate recovery and drug procurement to be financed from regular budget funds, rather than through these associations. I'd like one more thing, Mr. Minister, in this position to remind you, that we have a problem with housing. I wrote it for you, I think you read it. Last year's budget envisioned 380m 457 000 dinars for residential construction, with 322m185,000 and 75 dinars. When you look at it like this, it's about 57-58 million dinars. Maybe for people who have billions of dollars and who make a budget it's not a lot of money, and I accept it as a fact, but you have to know that because there are so many resources left, in two cities, about 40 families of wartime combatants and families of fallen fighters, so I'm talking about Raška and Vranje, they won't have finished apartments, they won't have finished facilities, even though they planned to move in this year. Given that some 50 million dinars for residential construction are foreseen in this year, I hope that will be enough for at least these two cities to complete the facilities. However, Mr. Minister, we must return to one promise from 2006, Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Velimir Ilic, who promised that over the next three to four years, 4.5m euros will be allocated from the budget for the housing of wartime disabled and fallen fighters' families. Unfortunately, of that, there seems to be nothing in this year, because, according to the information we received from the Ministry, these funds are not foreseen in this year at the NIP. That is why I have proposed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, the project, but unfortunately, it is not much to do with joint funds, local self-government, the users of these apartments, or the wartime military disabled families and the states, to find opportunities, to create one project that will allow for the construction of 1,500 apartments, as much as it is necessary to take care of this population. Let me repeat this plan to you now, because even from Mr. Djelic, who has promised me firmly that he will engage in this, to solve this problem, there is nothing. Okay, maybe there's someone else he hasn't lied to, and I don't think he's lied to me yet, because I'm not going to give up this idea very easily, because I have no alternative, Mr. Minister, but to force the state and local self-government in those cities to solve this problem together. I'll tell you one more time, you might be interested again, which is what it's all about. So local self-government needs to provide a free location and infrastructure, military disabled, or housing users, to bear housing costs, or classic construction, and that the state, which, in fact, has an obligation to solve their housing problem, provides a source of credit and, if possible, assumes the interest obligation. In the next 20 years, this would relieve the state and the budget, i.e. the state with a small amount of funds would be involved in solving this problem. In this way, hopefully, over the next three years, we'll be able to solve all 1,500 cases, and that's the only way that these people, in due course, can expect to solve their living issue, or get a roof over their heads. The state will be able to extend its commitment in this regard over the next 20 years. I don't want to take any more time, but I hope you're interested in this project once again, that together, with Mr. Djelic and Mr. Rasim Ljajic, you make an effort to bring this project to life, because for us, war participants, first of all, those of 1990, the key issue and one of the biggest problems we face, which we won't be able to solve without joint engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14420	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14421	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a colleague who was before me obviously didn't understand the essence of the amendment. It is said that, as we have so far claimed, this budget is not transparent, as DOS people like to say. So we don't know which of the NGOs gets the funds. This amendment has only been submitted for the purpose of trying to provoke the Government of the Republic of Serbia to tell us who and how much funds it will define, and nothing more. For the proposal you've put forward now, I can't say that it doesn't exist, because there is, but it's a shame for a country to treat this problem like this and that associations of fighters and wartime military people have to fight for their rights. Their rights should be resolved by the state before there is any consequences. However, since 5 October in general, it seems that the state has persistently avoided any responsibility for any effect that has arisen from the response of the state authority. I have, even, an ugly experience, which I heard yesterday, I'll say the name and last name of the judge later. It is said that a young man from the municipality of Golubac, who was in the Land Zone in southern Serbia, spent six months there, died at the age of 32. His parents have been trying to find out the cause of death for five years. They spoke to the court and yesterday there was one hearing. The judge told the late soldier's mother something beyond reason to seek justice through newspaper articles, not through court, which is beyond any limit of good taste. It is, unfortunately, an example of how our country treats people who have defended the state. Some of them didn't mourn their lives, some of them survived happily, but with serious consequences, and it's the state that cares how these people get back into society and move on, as far as possible. However, DOS authorities have no understanding of the problems of citizens who have become disabled by defending the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14422	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an amendment that the SRS has already endured several times when it comes to the budget, because it's obvious that we have institutions that overlap. It is obvious that the DOS government has not found it appropriate in the past seven years to carry out a functional analysis of the entire state administration and to see places where competences and jobs overlap, and therefore to streamline the institutions themselves. We in Section 21 have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Environmental Protection Fund. This amendment concerns, in particular, the Environmental Protection Agency. The SRS, therefore, appears in principle, in a desire to reduce the number of agencies, whose number is inappropriate to Serbia's economic strength. Like I said, often jobs overlap, and costs are huge. Efforts are that, by abolishing the Environment Agency, businesses are transferred to the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment. I think it's quite logical, if we also have the fact that we also have a Environmental Protection Fund at the Ministry, that only within the Agency and the Ministry, about 390 people are employed, and within the Fund, we also have a number of employees; the draft budget does not say how many, but it appears to be about twenty-thirty employees, based on the estimated funds for salaries. So it's obvious that the overlapping of jurisdiction is an obvious need for a more serious rationalization of environmental protection agencies. What is still unacceptable to me with regard to the government towards the citizens, according to the National Assembly, is the fact that for this very large amount of billions and 383 million dinars, it means, about 17 million euros within the Environment Fund, we have an extremely short explanation in the bill, so I would read it to you. So, 17m euros, no less, no more, is explained in one paragraph – as "Special Service Issues covering the funds for project documentation, for the rehabilitation of existing and construction of regional deposits in the Republic of Serbia". It's one general explanation, where no specific location can be specified at which the dump will eventually be built, nor any plan can be seen. I would say, the National Assembly, and that is another reason why we believe that a more serious analysis should be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, a more serious rationalisation, that in this situation, when public spending is far above the potential of our economy, we can count on some of the funds available to this country to go into investment, not all in personal consumption. I urge you to have an understanding of this amendment, to see how the funds are allocated within the Ministry of Environment. I'm sure you'll recognize the irrationality and need to be more serious, and, hopefully, by accepting this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14424	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14425	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, I will take this amendment again to take advantage of the opportunity to put a political stance on the creation of para-state bodies, which greatly burden budget spending and this budget that is ahead of us as a kind of income and expenditure plan. I will show this on the case not only of this environmental agency, but also of those anti-doping, which my colleague Vlado Sekulić will talk about, in the case of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Foreign Investments, which Saša Valjarevic will talk about, and those two agencies that are not on the list of those who spend budgets, but most of all abuse public funds, by doing privatisation, on behalf of the state and for their own benefit, and by doing so the liquidation of banks and dissipating state property, without any control and keeping an eye on it. Is there a greater withdrawal of state property and uncontrollable budget spending if two agencies, which are not here on the list of those who spend, as direct users, for wages, heating, lighting, phones and computer software, but precisely because, for example, Mr. Minister, I mentioned to you this morning, "Robs Houses", which is what they embarrass the state, us and everyone else, as completely irresponsible and illiterate people. You're accomplishing your own kind of control of spending funds only within your system, by hierarchy. So the finance minister is in a position, I'm not sure he's in control, but he's in a position to control budget users, to the lowest, local self-government. But how are we supposed to control you, if you double the state apparatus, then transfer the authority of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to the Agency, partly to the Fund, so that through these agencies, not just these, you deal with both lending and promotion, and marketing, and branding, and everything that isn't, by nature, your job, and what is your job, as state authorities, you leave it to those we can't control? How do you do that? One of the very interesting is the Agency for Foreign Direct Investments, i.e. attracting foreign direct investment, everyone in the people knows it under the name SIEPA. It is known because it is managed by one of the prominent G17 members, Mrs Jasna Matic, who has received a number of regulations in part time and huge funding funds, allegedly, for opening new jobs. At the moment Mrs Matic's head comes to the post of Minister for Business and Privatisation, she can no longer wonder who is giving these incentive funds, but rather the regulation is being passed, the 2006 regulation is changing. It is the one in which another para-state organisation, the National Investment Plan Office, has been published, in which Mr Dinkic, as Minister for Economy and Regional Development, is now formally called, becomes a man who approves, or checks guarantees for funds taken. Dear citizens, do you know how the directors who make some payments behave? You know, they've been given acceptive orders, to know where customs is, that is, abuse of public office and racketeering of people is done by determining a man who receives an important document for the realisation of business. At that time, an acceptive order, today's note, or guarantee, receives Mr Dinkic on behalf of the state, to share state resources, because it is not even the export bank, but it is the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments. What did they promote? In your memo, Mr. Minister, which contributes to the budget, it says that last year there were 3.5 billion foreign direct investments. Of that, 90% is actually privatisation. So, the sale of what's called social and state property. What did they promote? So 0.8, i.e. 800m euros was the revenue of last year as a result of the agency's work. What was their cost? That's what I'm going to tell you, my fellow citizens, when I get the final bill for 2007, about that budget, and about all the other MPs. I certainly know that the cost of the agency's existence, and many others, cannot justify what is the revenue of 0.8m euros last year. What is most interesting and why we are also protesting, in principle and politically, against the establishment of agencies, is that they have funds, in principle, of the Development Fund; they have the cheapest means, which usually have political funding from current parties, which can also be seen from credits that people have received from the Development Fund. This is not just about court proceedings and criminal charges, but you can go and look at the loan portfolio development fund. So, as we fill the budget, make decisions and pay taxes, then some small fidelities run by the ministries, whose authority these agencies are under, share resources under the most favourable, well-favoured conditions, friends, financiers, and large investors are making every effort and taking every effort to reach these most favourable funds. So, a double harmful policy, a perilous policy, which teaches people that it's good to put themselves in political camps, use funds at the benefit of the price, not to fight in the market, productivity and better production, in order to make it happen. There's something else in this collection and memo, Mr. Minister. You said the inflow of foreign investment was 3.5m euros, and I didn't see anywhere that you brought out the information that we have a net capital outflow based on investments. I don't see that you've taken away or booked the purchase of the Republika Srpska Telecom, which is a good move, but simply because of the truthfulness of what's called an inflow, I don't see that you've covered it somewhere with this plan of yours. So, countless, ministers, agencies, and those who are called funds or anything like that, do business on behalf of the state, and wave for their account or account of their political friends. You're the only one who has access to income and expenses. The impact, too, has only you. It is you who receive requests from all ministries and agencies. By granting someone a request and reducing someone, you're setting up this country. You've halved the state audit institution's demands, you're not in control. One of the agencies, such as those involved in the promotion of tourism, by granting a 100 million-dollar loan to that purpose, according to the budget variant that I only had in mind, you increased the funds. Isn't that clear about the reasons the government manages when it forms agencies and gives funds, when it wants to avoid control and thus strengthens its personal political influence on the people's money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14426	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) We'll continue at 15 o'clock. We begin with the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14427	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. On Article 5, the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague Milorad Bhuha has submitted an amendment to split into article 5 22, chapter 22.2 and function 810. The explanation is that the SRS is against the establishment of agencies for everything and everything, because it's expensive and a slightly efficient part of the state's apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, and thus increase the costs of the state administration. In order for Serbian citizens to know exactly what is being said, it is the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, for which 17 million dinars are to be allocated, and that primarily refers to employees of the agency, permanent costs, travel costs, contract service, specialist contracts, etc. To make it clear, we are in favour of not using illegal funds in sports, but we are against such agencies, which are founded only to employ personnel. In particular, in these ministries and these agencies founded by the ministry, most of them employ DS personnel who were workers of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and workers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, thereby automatically increasing the apparatus, which is massive for our country, for our budget. To support this, I will say that 266 000 jobs are financed from the republican budget, with 176.7 billion dinars scheduled, representing 25% of Serbia's entire budget. Now you see how big a machine is, a big machine, and where all the money goes. In particular, through these financial aspects, we can see that services are used, and then the question is whether employees who are employed, professional staff who are employed in such agencies have the necessary knowledge, whether they have the necessary work experience, so it is seen that they do not have the elements of the will for the job, that they are not technically equipped, how IT, through computers, programmes, etc., that a weak sectoral link, exchange of data, is a weak link between related state institutions. Through what we see, on the one hand, the Agency is funded, and on the other hand, services are paid on the side, travel. Now I'm interested in where they're going to travel, are those lab analyses they're doing for doping control to carry abroad, so someone's gonna do them there, because they're not technically equipped here, to support it all here? I'll tell you right away that's a little symptomatic. The sport law will only come in line for discussion, and I have now come from the Sports and Youth Committee, where a report is given on what has been done in the ministry so far. This law was proposed by an emergency procedure, so it was withdrawn from the procedure. Now the question is, what happens if the law on sports is not passed, literally, that the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia is not foreseen by that law? So how do you justify hiring someone, investing money, and the Agency won't be able to exist officially and legally? The SRS is against opening up agencies like this, who don't even know what they're going to do, what's good for them. We believe it is necessary to actively work on the implementation of the national strategy for the development of the administration's body, to reduce the number of ministries by rationalising, to reduce the number of such agencies and institutes, as well as the number of workers in them. This is now degutant, you keep mentioning some agencies that no one knows what will do good to the citizens, but you can see that money is being spent, that there are employees. When we look at these costs, there's always some travel expenses, special services and everything else. If you were to say –Antidoping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, many citizens would not even know why this is foreseen in the budget, because the funds are not so small, 17 million dinars. I say frankly, we better focus this money on revitalisation and adaptation of sports grounds for children by schools, kindergartens, towns and villages of Serbia, that equipment is being joked about for fiscultura, rather than this, because these are directly wasted funds. I believe that these agencies should put things in the right place, develop different information structures in state bodies, integrate the integration and exchange of strategic data, because this agency should exchange experiences with European agencies and anti-doping institutions. I know that no anti-doping controls in Serbia have yet been carried out, that we do not have any institute authorised to perform anti-doping control, which is evident when foreign competitions are at stake. Work must be updated on new technical solutions, new modern methods of work. This agency already exists, and there is nothing consistent, nor have some previous experience or exchanges with abroad been harmonised, in order to justify the funds it has invested, in order to have a purpose. And through co-ordination in work processes, it's apparent that it's not at all consistent. You have provided an explanation why you do not accept this amendment: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is proposed under the Department of Youth and Sports Chapter 22.2 – The Antidoping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, which is educated by the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports ('The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia'), in order to initiate, implement and control the fight against doping in sport. According to the budget system law, it is necessary to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the functioning of this budget user." I told you, you made a proposal for this law to consider an emergency procedure. He didn't go into procedure at all. What happens if that law doesn't pass? You will, then, continue to fund something for which there is neither economic nor legal justification. When it came to the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events, you saw that the SRS had tabled many amendments and most of the SRS MPs participated in this because we are interested in preventing this violence. But we specifically pointed out some of the phenomena that will appear soon, so you saw that everything we suggested, and you didn't accept, came true. In particular, I'm going to mention the most drastic example, and that was about the flag. And then we insisted that the flags must be worn. You saw an example at the "Rad" - "New Market" game, if it were forbidden to introduce a Serbian flag, because it would cause negative connotations of the New Market fans. But that's why Kragujevac could be running against Serbia, for the benefit of Jamaica, it's "to Serbia, to cry, to cry, to come to Hashim Thaci" and beyond. So, we've indicated that something will happen that will be devastating for this society. That's how an incident was created at the Red Star game. You saw what it came to, when it was recorded, and then we insisted that it couldn't be done by the director's office, but by the police. The police must do their part of the job, but they must protect the interests of both fans and law enforcement authorities. When it comes to this anti-doping control, I was now on the Committee on Sports and Youth, we're going to talk about it, we're going to talk about the laws that are going to come into order, it was more logical that, first, I was considering the Anti-doping Control Act, and then it was only then that this agency of yours was set up. These agencies were founded as well as some other agencies. The specific goal of these agencies is to hire your staff. I'm sure and I'm telling you right now that we don't have, literally, official, certified bodies, or a licensed organization, that they can do this kind of antidoping control. Our athletes, ever since Tadic started visiting them, have really acted like they were doping, losing all the games. Does he have a negative effect on them? It's obviously affecting them. Perhaps then Tadic should do this antidoping control, and for athletes in Serbia, we will see who will do this antidoping control, we will see what the results will be. I'm telling you, you couldn't single out these funds, because that law didn't come into force. You set up the Agency to hire your staff. Then, these travel expenses. I'd like the minister to come out and explain these travel expenses. Whether they will carry urine from Serbia to Switzerland for analysis, so they return by plane, 247 million for the airline government, whether to give them that plane to do so, because it is one of the types of anti-doping control. Antidoping control serves to be found with athletes whether they were taking funds that are stimulating, which are legally prohibited. We haven't had any such cases with our contestants, who are here. There was one case around Topic, although it was also questionable, whether or not he was using funds. Our health care, our institutions that deal with this work, have not yet issued a single publication on which anti-doping funds are banned, in order for our athletes to adapt, and their trainers, to know that they can adapt to whether they can use any funds. On behalf of the SRS, I claim that you founded this agency to hire your staff, who won't do anything there, first, because they're not even dressed, and also because we haven't had it in practice so far. This is strictly dedicated, done for your leaders, for some of your members or supporters who will support you. Maybe the Divac Government will lead you to this agency, since you had him as an exhibit, or someone else will show up. If you already wanted to give funds to a part of the sport, you'd better separate them for the revitalisation of the playground, for young athletes, or for the scholarship of young, prospective Serbian athletes, who will bring us success tomorrow and bring us Serbia's glory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14429	Thank you, Mr. Sekuli. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are. There's a People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard from colleagues from the SRS, not just now, but years ago, our principled position on any kind of agency. This is some DOS-Mali fashion, introduced since 2000, i.e. early 2001. Whatever law you've passed, in every law, you've formed a certain agency, a commission. We've never known what these agencies are doing. What we are telling you is true with every law, and now, when it comes to the draft budget law, it is of particular interest for us to remind the citizens of Serbia of our objections. Every time you proposed to an agency, we requested an amendment to delete it, because the SRS thinks the agencies are parallel state bodies. If you, part of the job, within one ministry, give one agency, the other part of the job to another, the third, then you ask one completely logical question, what are the ministries for? By forming agencies, no ministry has reduced the number of employees. On the contrary, new people are employed daily in the ministries, new people are hired by agencies, agency directors are senior civil servants, officials, and these are, of course, always responsible party officials in power. On the one hand, you're telling us that you're standing up for a professional state, and what you're really doing is creating a party state. The agencies are an excellent vision, an attempt to cloud things, that one day, which will soon be, when you lose power at the republican level, leave your agencies, which do nothing, except receive great wages. I need to tell the citizens of Serbia that, say, the Anti-doping Agency, as you called it, costs the citizens of Serbia 17.066,000 dinars. Believe that citizens have been disgusted for days at a time by this information that we know and warn them of. They do not want Serbian citizens to finance party officials from any party. You should have taken care of that when you introduced both this and the other agencies. The agency was formed by the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports in 2005. I wish, Minister, that there was a minister of sports here to tell us what this agency did specifically, what the agency's employees specifically did and what they're going to do with these 17,000,000 dinars. What are the specialized services that cost 44,000 dinars? Where are these people going to travel for 1,075,000 dinars? So we ask that both this and all the amendments to this content be accepted, that these funds of the citizens of Serbia, which you are throwing out as you come to mind, should be directed where they really are needed. I don't know if I should remind you how many Serbian citizens live below the poverty level, how many children in Serbia don't have a third meal, how much pensions have fallen realistically, how much wages are actually falling, no matter how nominally you talk about some 300 and I don't know how many euros of average earnings in Serbia, how many people are on strike every day, how unhappy there are in this country. You don't care about all that, it's important for you to have a nice home to your staff, to give them a very high profit. The best example of the agency's functioning can be seen through the Privatisation Agency, which is the biggest evil that could have happened to Serbia. Many criminal and illegal privatisations have gone through the Privatisation Agency. The ministers hide behind the agencies, the agencies hide behind the ministries, and then the Energy Minister comes out and says, "Don't ask me about the power collection, that's what the Agency is in charge of." So you can't, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cheat on Serbian citizens. In fact, you can try, but that's why we from the SRS are here to warn the citizens of Serbia, to warn you to stop robbing Serbian citizens, because this budget is nothing more than a robbery of Serbian citizens. This budget is filled with the resources of this people and it would, at least, be correct and fair that the funds are available in favour of this task and the citizens of Serbia, which was absolutely not on your mind. You've made one draft pre-election budget, but trust me, it'll cost you. The Serbian citizens are watching our work, and I am sure, we are sure that in the presidential elections they will vote with all their heart for the SRS candidate, because they know that we are a domestic party, a party of honest and honest people. All those who are true to change, all those who are honest for Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, all those who are against corruption and crime at the top of the government, all those who love themselves, their family, their Serbia, will vote with all their heart for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14431	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nadica Momirov. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Stosic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Simonovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Article 1 Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On article 5, the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14432	The honourable MPs, dear friends, submitted the amendment to the draft budget law, on behalf of the SRS, MP Igor Becic. "In Article 5, division 34 and function 470 are deleted." That is what the amendment reads, and that is, to let citizens know what it is, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure. Explanatory for erasing section 34 and functions 470. The Serbian Radical Party is against establishing agencies for all sorts of things, because it is an expensive and slightly efficient part of the state apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. Because agencies have shown themselves to be para-state institutions for hiring friends. For example, our local self-government is one big construction site, Kikinda, as is commonly known, but we rarely meet with the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, and if we do, it only makes it difficult for us to work. The agency law regulates them to finance, among other things, from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but I argue it is least said that it is unnecessary, i.e. it is not necessary for those agencies. I'm sure you're aware that the current ministries can cover the Agency's activities. Although you are convinced that unnecessary agencies are, however, they exist for the sake of party membership in power. Faster and better to set up agencies where these people are employed. I propose that this amendment be adopted, and Serbian radicals will vote for this amendment with all their hearts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14433	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Valjarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sasa Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I will only provide information on the amendment submitted by the SRS and I as an MP. In Article 5, we asked to delete division 35 and function 410 in the budget projection, because it is the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion. The current government has 22 ministries. In all these ministries, besides ministers, there are state secretaries and a dozen assistants, deputies and advisers. However, given that not all personnel of the current owners in Serbia, which are DS, G17 and DSS, were unable to get home, we also have 17 agencies in addition to 22 ministries. Only this agency of Serbian citizens will cost 200 million dinars. For their work, only wages will cost 30 million dinars. For their expenses and travel – over eight million dinars. The question is, what are the departments in charge? As a country, compared to countries in the environment, we have the largest number of ministries. On average, there are 15 to 16 ministries, and Serbia has 22. Even so, 17 other agencies. We have, or DOS power has the most massive apparatus, larger, minors, than in the world's largest states. When a division occurred after months of negotiations, i.e. the formation of this government, in the first round, normally the highest party officials received certain ministries and certain functions. Since there was not enough space, especially for G17 and these smaller parties, which had fewer MPs than in the previous government, resorted to the establishment of various agencies. On behalf of the citizens of Serbia, this agency will travel across Europe and the world, represent our country and sell our products, and we have seen what is the export deficit compared to imports. We now, Malten, have no domestic goods in our shops, because all that is now sold is imported. All the hypermarkets, supermarkets, all these big houses that open in all the cities of Serbia, normally, place goods from countries where they come from. There are very few of our goods here, and our goods are very little exported out of our country. These agencies are just one huge machine that spends money on Serbian citizens, and these are all budget funds, so, programically, the SRS is against setting up agencies for everything and everything, because it's expensive and a little efficient state apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. These are only outposts of individual parties, and we could see that when President Tadic's office was formed, where he was the current minister, Gilas, who traveled through Serbia and shared computers on behalf of the DS, and the office itself has no legal basis for setting up. However, the avalanche has now been restarted, given that presidential elections have been called and the press has already seen that instead of Gilas, another DS official, who is also going through Serbia and sharing computers in schools and other institutions, has now arrived. So, you're only making out your political parties, you're not thinking about Serbian citizens, and that's why our budget is in deficit, so our budget can't handle this kind of apparatus, so this budget isn't developmental, so this budget is pre-election. However, all of this will be evaluated by Serbian citizens on January 20th, as you do, as you did from 2000 to 2007, because Serbian citizens feel it best. We have here praised our current Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, who has come out and talked about future prosperity in Serbia, about the EU, about various benefits that the state of Serbia will have. It's been a story since 2000, and so far nothing has been realized. Perhaps it is better for certain parties now in power and for their party officials, but Serbian citizens are growing worse alive, more and more unemployed. The privatisation done so far in Serbia has shown that everything privatised has been done in an illegal manner. It is already slowly beginning to discover and arrest, and these are, by the way, the personnel who then managed these companies, which led these companies to the brink of bankruptcy. Then an unreal estimate of the value of the property was made, so we're witnessing that in certain cities local criminals become, minors, those who run the cities, because they buy everything that was in the privatisation. No one else could compete except for them or participate, as they referred various threats to other participants who wanted to participate in the auctions. So in this country, you've made it worse than in Sicily. As far as the budget is concerned, it is designed to cover the cost of functioning only of these ministries, agencies. There is no agriculture anywhere, you have neglected the military, for all that is vital to the functioning of this state, there are small funds, but that is why huge funds are allocated to salaries in all these agencies and ministries, because they are, in fact, parallel institutions to existing ministries. That is why Serbian citizens will go to the elections with all their hearts and vote for the SRS candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to stop the collapse of the Serbian state and finally to have the right people come to us and the right hosts at the head of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14435	Thank you, Mr. Valyarevic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The 43rd Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Marina Ragush has tabled an amendment to section 5, paragraph 43, of the 360 law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to delete this part of the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The government did not accept this amendment, and in an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, it is said: "Amendman is not accepted for the reason that it proposes to delete all the funds identified for the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations, which was established by the Law on Liability for Human Rights, as a separate and independent body, and thus is a budgetary user whose work is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia remember that the SRS has just been the most fierce opponent of the adoption of the Law on Responsibility for Human Rights and Freedoms. The passing of this law is nothing more than regret for what the "domestics" called October 6th, which is the desire to be even more radical, even more ruthless, even more inhumanely dealt with by political opponents of the "domestic" unconstitutional and illegal revolution, which was carried out on October 5th 2000. Few were burned in Belgrade at that time, few were burned down by the former Federal Assembly building, few were burned down by the RTS building, few were involved in the Customs, public enterprises, the NBJ, which formed crisis headquarters, what they wanted to do, in 2003, had already come to the sense that they were forming a law on liability for human rights violations and freedoms, to form that famous commission, which the government says is an independent and independent body, which should investigate the responsibility of former state officials for human rights violations. In an explanation of why it does not accept the amendment, the Serbian government says the commission is an independent and independent body. From a constitutional and legal point of view, a question arises – in which category of state authorities this commission belongs. We who have been educated in some classical legal principles, on the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism, we who have read the works of classical democratic writers, know that the government is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. It is perfectly clear to all those who belong to the government in which category. When you have a state body called the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights, then anyone who has any understanding of constitutional law and state and law theory can justifiably ask the question – which category of state authorities is this commission, what should it do and what is the legal nature of the decisions that the commission is supposed to make? Is it a legislative authority? It's not. Is it the authority of the administration? It's not. Is it a judicial authority? It's not even a judicial authority. The citizens of Serbia can, in fact, best see what they've gotten themselves into. Dosmanlia democracy and what the Dosmanians have turned Serbia into. There is no state in Europe today and in a world that has this structure of state bodies. Only in Serbia can it happen that you have nearly 20 different agencies, where it is not clear to the government itself what these agencies are, whether they are some parallel ministries, whether they are management bodies within the ministries, whether they are special organisations, public services. What are those agencies anyway, what are they doing? On the other hand, you have one body called the Commission that is supposed to question the responsibility for human rights violations. Let me remind you, in 2003, the then president of the Serbian and V.D. Assembly The president of the Republic of Natasa Micic proposed a lady to the commission. That woman didn't know at all that she was proposed to be a member of this committee and then publicly told the media that she had nothing to do with it and that she didn't want to be a member of this committee at all. That best says to what extent this commission is a serious state body. Let me just remind you that some of the "Dosmans" revolutions in 2000 were very prominent candidates for the members of this committee. I don't need to remind you of the names of Peter Lukovic, Teofil Pancic and all those false intellectuals and Democrats who have done nothing else these seven years but muddled Serbia, muddled the Serbian people, depicting us as beasts, that we are genocide, that we are the ones who caused all those horrors that occurred in the premises of the previous Yugoslavia. They're doing it day and day. These are the same ones that the Serbian government wants to give to the budget at an annual level of 400,000 dinars, who talk day by day that Kosovo and Metohija are lost to Serbia, as it has already become independent of Serbia's countries what to look for in Kosovo and Metohija. Greater rights, they say, have China towards Taiwan than Serbia has towards Kosovo and Metohija. There could be lower pearls of anti-Serbian statements made either by members or by potential members of this committee to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations. In doing so, it is completely forgotten here, on this left hand side of Parliament, that just the fathers and founders of some of the current ruling parties, here, above all, I mean DS, people who, above all, should call for responsibility for human rights violations. These are the same ones who killed Serb priests, Serb hosts, who during the post-World War II, harvested people's mustaches because they didn't have enough corn and wheat to pay for the mandatory ransom. These are the defenders of the character and the works of Joseph Broz Tito, they're the great 'praxis'. Ask Mr. Micunović, if you don't know what I'm talking about, he knows. Suddenly, in 2000, these former major Bolsheviks, Stalinists, revolutionaries, informers, practitioners, there were all sorts of things, all of a sudden, on October 5, 2000, they became big Democrats, starting with us and the entire people in Serbia to feed their minds on democracy, on human rights, on European standards. Here, they're doing it day and day. The SRS considers that this committee for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations should be abolished. The government says the commission was founded by law. That's true, but she's never really lived. I would like a representative of the government to explain to me what this commission has done for the past four years, which are cases of human rights violations and responsibilities that the commission has examined, who has called for any responsibility, whether any decision has been made there. I remind you, in Serbia's budget, that the Serbian government, year by year, is proposing funds for the commission's work. That commission in practice doesn't work, it doesn't exist. The question is, then, how does the Serbian government justify the means that it defines each year for the work of this commission? If in Serbia in the past, and before 5 October, there have been violations of human rights and freedoms, then we in the SRS believe that this should be done by those state authorities who are the only ones called for, and these are the courts. Some court, in an objective procedure, which has been laid down by law, examines whether any person in Serbia has in any way violated any human rights and freedoms and has imposed the sanctions provided for by law: the prison sentence, the fine, anything. In this way, to form a political body upon which only the ruling coalitions have influence and a body that will selectively investigate cases of human rights violations is simply not justified. There is no country in Europe today that has a similar institution. Lustration, introduced into Serbia's political dictionary, was introduced with the intention of doing what was not done on 6 October. I wonder if this commission has questioned human rights violations in Operation Sabbe, when 12 000 Serbian citizens, without legal basis, are deprived of freedom. It was then found that there is virtually no one involved in any criminal affairs in any way, and in particular there is no one involved in the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic in any way. What do we do with that? Are those things gonna stick under the carpet? Lustration, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, will be carried out by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here, but at St. John in 2008, and you will not need any commissions, no Teofili Pancici, Lukovici and other corifies of the five-octobar revolution, the people will take matters into their own hands, lustration and Boris Tadic, and DS, and all those who have sickened the citizens of Serbia since 5 October 2000, and the president of the Republic of Serbia will become the best Serbian host, Tomislav Nikolic, for whom the entire Serbian people have been heartbroken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14437	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14438	Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, talking about lustration for several years. I understand why the ruling majority keeps this budget position active all the time, although there is no power and no courage to implement the law into life. So this is a German law, which was passed on to the initiative of the then-Citizen Union of Serbia MPs, who were then an independent parliamentary party. We also knew the moment the Law was passed, for this law, among other things, was not voted by the SPS, that it would serve nothing but a good reason for certain political moves and concessions, which were made according to the GSS, except that the party did not survive as such. I'm saying this for the citizens who are following this, first of all. Informal lustration has been performed in Serbia, however. So, from 2000 until now, practically, almost all the presidents of the courts, the people of the municipal and district prosecutors, have been retired, more or less, illegally, by almost all senior police and military officials until the age of 60. So that's one form of lustration that exists. Together with my colleagues, I had the opportunity to talk about this recently in Prague, at an international event, and to prove that it was all that. I want to tell you that in Serbia, about 60,000 people have been lustrated in this way. So it's a simple fact. Serbia was not a so-called state. The eastern bloc and Serbia, since the topic is a violation of human rights by the regime, the secret service of the Yugoslav and Serbian states has not been any extended hand of any foreign service, as was the case in the Eastern bloc, for example. I remind you that in East Germany, after political changes, there are six million and 800,000 Stasi files left, that in Romania, behind the Securitate, one of the blackest secret police in the recent history, there are nearly 7.5 million left in Bulgaria, in Poland and the Czech Republic, there are also one million files left. I remind you of a famous letter from the third class of Krakow High School, which was asked by the Minister of Justice of Poland to suspend the lustration procedure, because no child lived with both parents in their department, because all parents had divorced because they found that they had deunced each other. Serbia was not such a country. Yugoslavia was not such a state. So when you talk about this thing, you need to talk to the measure. I remind you that in the Czech Republic, and to this day, 320,000 people have been lustrated, but that, according to their recognition, the thing is largely finished so that there is virtually no political benefit from it. They themselves say that the largest number of these people, who, above all, were in the secret police and other high duties in the Czech Republic, were. Czechoslovakia, that they became the richest businessmen today in the Czech Republic. I was also informed by an MP who was there with me. The esteemed colleague who submitted this amendment is in one thing absolutely right – there are no conditions of that kind to carry out lustration in Serbia, because they are objectively not systems that can be combined. Everything else needs to be, or if someone has violated human rights to anyone in the world, in our country, above all, since that is what this is about, it needs to be proven in an appropriate court procedure. That's the one that's supposed to be responsible for the crime. So this is not about any need for anyone to be, for God's sake, lustrated, so that, in this way, he is eliminated from public political life – well, that's his reward. If someone violated someone's human rights, they should be held accountable, if they did something contrary to the law and to the general principles that apply in this area. It is indeed high time for the ruling coalitions to agree – or they will implement the Law into life, which we will, of course, strongly oppose, or cease to exist in this commission and this budgetary position. Because with this little funding being given to the Commission, nothing can be done. In addition, distinguished gentlemen and ladies, the SPS voted only at the previous session of the Security Committee to open secret and political files. Those who are fundamentally understood in lustration know that lustration is not possible unless secret police archives are opened. Here, we did it on your behalf – we vote to open, we look forward to, as we vote, and to end the restitution. So there's no story of lustration and still holding back what you criticized 50 years ago, everything that was once nationalized. So, do the denationalization, end the restitution, open the police files, and all those who expect you to do it will applaud you, and you promised in the campaign. We help you as much as we vote for one law and another, although we find it difficult to vote for so-called. historical laws. But we'll do it this time, we promise you, because it's been a long time since you passed this law. Since your first serious election campaign in 1999, three governments have changed. Either bring this to the end, or say – we are unable to do this, we have deceived citizens in election campaigns. So there's not much philosophy -- either you can, or you can't. When you go to the campaign, you promise, when you come to power, you execute. It's a thing that's completely clean. Otherwise, everything else, we talked about it here earlier. In 1946, there were 78 orphanages in Belgrade. At 78 orphanages, there were 12,500 children without both parents, who died in World War II. How does someone think it was possible for them, the disabled and the others who came out unhappy with the war, to do something without taking who had it? In doing so, I don't applaud the one who took where he shouldn't have, who violated the human rights of the one who didn't do anything, in any way, to be treated like that. You have to understand, that's how I end up, that the people who participated in that war had a promise that when the war was over, they would be like they were. So, in that sense, after many years, history cannot go back. But here are the conditions, those who had it as a political project, let them do it once in Serbia, let's see how it's possible to return something that was taken that way, and that the state is holding it economically, politically, etc. So I'm not talking about lustration anymore. It was just one small party political project, which is no longer parliamentary. Some of you voted for it because they had nowhere else to go. However, I'm telling you that you've carried out the lustration, every general has been retired, every commanding officer who's been operationally commanding, or who's been commanding a company and a company officer, there's no one else in the police who's been engaged in any way in what you're being disgusted by. That's your attitude to it. I don't talk to you that way. So, judges, prosecutors in public enterprises have changed completely. You've brought your political establishment to exercise power on your behalf, and that's a complete lustration. If anyone thinks that's not the case, let them name some. Well, there are some who have survived. This is where the esteemed colleague listed everything. It's not just one, because he didn't remember. Please, Latina Perovic was president of the CK SK of Serbia. Now Latina Perovic is one of the most important people in the LDP. How come only when some of you say you're not disgusted with their services? Zivorad Kovacevic, representative of the European Council. Gentlemen, he was the head of the Krcun's office. He is today the biggest "democracy" in Serbia. Do you know what it means to be head of the Krcun's office? It means being a master of life and death. But he's good now. Jelica Minic, gentlemen, so her father was foreign minister. Her uncle is Bata Jankovic, a folk hero. She married a Czech diplomat when her father was foreign minister and caused diplomatic scandals. What do you mean she's a Democrats now? Because she came to you. It's not true, but you don't have the same arches on the same issues, that's the problem. Let's not list others, because we could talk about it by morning. What? I love, too, "Daddy would be a son," but unfortunately, he can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14439	Please choose your words a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14440	I'm just saying, I'm ending it, it's impossible that the Democrats were the high-ranking officials, so they crossed over to you without the Democrats who stayed where they were. That's not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14441	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Zecevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Ivana Zečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14442	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, and it reads - in Article 5, division 44 and function 440 are deleted. This division and function 440 refer to the Mining Agency. Our argument is as similar as for all amendments relating to eradicating items relating to the funding of agencies, which these and previous governments form, practically, each year. I see in the explanation given by the government why this amendment was rejected. It is written: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is proposed to delete all the funds identified for the Mining Agency, which was established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2006 Mining Act, and therefore, this agency is a budgetary user for whose work is provided by the budget of the Republic of Serbia." That's what you wrote about all the amendments relating to the funding of these agencies, as we say from the SRS, form them for everything and everything. For example, we have the Agency for Energy, the Agency for Environmental Protection, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Agency for Depositary Managers, the Agency for Deposit Insurance and the Rehabilitation of Banks, the Privatisation Agency, the Agency for Economic Registers, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, and not to list everything. Some in this budget, the draft budget, received more funding, some, even more than 40 million, the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, even 198 million. However, this mining agency only gets, let's just say, if that's little, 7,248,000 dinars. But what should Serbian citizens know? In addition to these agencies you form for various areas, so you question what they do, which is what the ministries do, as budget users you have other state, or para-state institutions, you have offices, you have advice, services, administrations, directors, funds, institutions, centres, commissions, commissaries, one, and committees. So, they're all funded, they're all budget users, and if you read all the names, you'd see that, at the same time, you have agencies, agencies, and administrations, and the ministry, for the same areas. So the purpose of forming these agencies, or para-state institutions, is to employ certain people, to employ structures that you don't know what you're going to do, because the economy is in ruins, because the economy isn't doing enough capacity, because what it did through privatisation was destroyed, and you weren't able to create a development bank. Instead of disbursing these funds for the financing and operation of these agencies, you could have created a development bank or, as you would call them, banks that would help develop the economy, which would help citizens, investment, by giving favourable loans, means that it was doing business, which actually provides and creates a dinar, not just those agencies, which are actually consumers, who are spending our resources. All this has already been said by my colleagues, but regardless, it is never a waste to repeat, for Serbian citizens to see what the money in this 2008 budget is being spent on, and they will know they appreciate it. So you will see in these next elections how it will be appreciated by the voters, the citizens of Serbia, and that will also be an indication of how good this budget is and everything you have done so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14443	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. I ask you to make a statement as to whether the Kostor is going to be a municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the questions of the Vice-President of the Assembly are concerned, we will see what kind of proposed law on territorial division between cities and municipalities will be directed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The issue will also be resolved whether the town's local community Kostolac will get the status of the municipality. As for this amendment, namely that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by opening agencies, generates high costs in the system of state administration, is seen from this mining agency. The mining agency should be an institution, to deal with some research, plans, programmes, to examine the country's mineral mineral mineral wealth and so on, however, it is seen here that it is only for someone to work, to take care of and live on state money, or on the burden of Serbian citizens. Here's what this division of the Mining Agency looks like. It is said, salaries, allowances, employees' fees, earnings, 5,114,000; social contributions to the employer's burden – 950,000; social benefits to employees – 115,000; charges for employees – 198,000; fixed costs – 144,000; travel costs 84,000; contract services – 84.000; material – 57,000; machinery and equipment – 500,000. A total of 7,246.000. Once this is read by someone who understands themselves in the budget items, it will come to the conclusion that all of this here is spent on the director, two or three secretaries, his deputy, coffee cook and cleaning lady. It's the Mining Agency. Well, we have the Ministry, what's it for? Let me tell you, the Director of the Mining Agency was the Deputy Director of the Land Spears Kostolac, who had a pretty large salary as Deputy Director, Predrag Makar. I can guess what his salary is now while he's head of the Mining Agency, and it's the director and the only, apparently, employee of that profession, these are two secretaries, maybe some deputy, coffee cook and cleaning lady. That sit-in at work, it's a nice job, I can tell you, for that money. He comes to work, buys a newspaper along the way, he can buy it from the team, order coffee from the coffee shop, get coffee, read the paper, wait for a few hours, drop by a colleague, again the director of the agency like his, and so, the little one at his place, the little one at his place, and in a circle, while all those directors of these powerful agencies, the directors, I can say freely, don't finish his work hours. It happens most often in a restaurant, where, of course, they already have the costs of the team, because of seven million 3% is a team, right? They're probably these services by contract; if they're nice enough to schedule the funds, there's plenty of them, they can stay here for a year. What about what they really exist for, what are these agencies founded for? Well, they don't serve anything. This one doesn't serve anything either, because all the strategies, when it comes to mining wealth, have long been made by various institutes, experts who have been trained to do so, have decades of experience. This is, I say, the classic product of October 5th, another agency in a series that burdens the budget, and here we, the MPs, are discussing it. I think it's high time that lawmakers left those agencies, as a para-state apparatus that takes over the powers of state authorities, in some sense, but does not account for the Serbian Parliament, but for the founder, and is the founder of the Agency's founding agency, since we have one such agency, which will only deal with the establishment of agencies. So, we're just increasing the state apparatus, increasing public spending, burdening the budget, and the money for serious social programs, because of the unemployed or the people who have lost their jobs in the privatisation process, there is no. There is not enough funds for retraining, nor for, as these gentlemen say, restructuring, because each of their restructuring involves losing their jobs, nothing else, to sell the subject of privatisation, with as little burden and as little money as possible to the new owner. That's what it's been like since DOS came to power since October 5th. I am fully convinced that since 20 January 2008, the situation will be quite different, when the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, will work exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not in the interest of these pro-Western parties, who only think about how to, while in power, themselves and their neighbors are as secure as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14445	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 45th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the people has the messenger of God, Koprivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14446	Dear People's MPs, the Serbian Radicals warned you, Mr. Minister, that the budget on the macroeconomic plan, as it was designed, will not lead to stability, nor economic growth, because, above all, it is not developmental, it is not reformable, especially not to mention, it is not social. He is, in fact, wasteful and consumer, so I don't know how so much self-centerism, or self-gratification with this budget. On behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, so I have proposed that Article 5 split the 45th and function 510 be deleted. Section 45, function 510, provides for the cost of the recycling agency, totalling 20 million and 348 thousand dinars. I believe, as well as the entire SRS Parliamentary Group, that it has divided 45 510 functions too high and should be deleted, because Serbian radicals against the establishment of agencies for all and all things, because it is part of a state apparatus that is completely unnecessary and enormously expensive, it costs taxpayers a lot. The establishment of various agencies, these parallel state bodies, directly increases costs, thus creating a budget deficit, which on the macroeconomic plan creates the country's economic instability, which was mentioned in principle in particular by my distinguished counterpart Tabakovic. None of the new agencies gave the expected results, but it is fashion after 5 October, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for work and these recycling agencies, to allocate taxpayers' funds to increase the costs of the state administration, instead of focusing those funds where necessary, above all, on social protection and the like. The amendment is good and I suggest you adopt it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14447	National MP Zdravko Topalović. I apologize, Mr Topalovic, Slavisa Topalovic, but two SRS MPs are Topalovici.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14448	Mr. Albianic, it's no excuse to apologize and you don't know my name. You just told your colleague Ivana Zečević - Ivana Zečević, come and talk. You know, she's a folk MP, you can't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14449	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14450	I think it is, take a stenogram, so look.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14451	Mr. Topalovic, don't argue with me like that. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14452	The amendment of the Ambassador of Bozidar Koprivica is good and I suggest you accept it. He said in his amendment that a recycling agency needs to be abolished. Mr. Minister, may I have your attention, please? Otherwise, all agencies came to Serbia after the DOS came to power. These agencies are, in fact, designed and formed only because of new jobs for your members, members of the democratic bloc's parties. So they're not serving anything anymore, they're just burdening the Serbian government's budget. These were to be directed smarter, on the other hand, for more useful purposes. In particular, do you know how many schools, kindergartens, health institutions are needed in Serbia? Here, in particular, some financial data that monitors financial data, I can say freely, the crisis since you, the democratic bloc, came to power after October 5th, in Serbia. Speaking about the basic economic parameters on which budget revenues will be based for 2007, the finance minister said the growth of gross domestic product would be 7%. I'm asking Mr. Secretary a question. Budget revenues for 2008 are nominally higher by 9.9%. The inflation rate for the first 10 months is 8.7% and will surely be over 10% by the end of the year. Tax rates, except for the income tax that was reduced by 2%, remained unchanged. Mr. Minister, how is it possible that, if economic growth is 7%, inflation is 10%, with unchanged tax parameters, budget revenue will only be 9.9%? There was no economic growth in 2007, and you know it well, but from day to day you lie to this people. Minister, 31.12. In 2006, this country owed $19,606 billion. The foreign debt in 31.10.2007 is $24,422 billion and will exceed $25 billion by the end of the year. Why do you persistently separate the Serbian debt and hide the country's total debt, mentioning it only as a public debt? You promised, in the adoption of the budget for 2007, export growth by 50%. The foreign trade deficit in the first 10 months is $7,423 billion and by the end of the year will be $8.5 billion. Serbia is today the last place in the world to export per capita. Why? Because you've destroyed the entire economy. Minister, do you know what the government's role was in economic terms? If you don't know, I'll tell you. To protect the domestic economy, firstly, and secondly, to enable the employment of its citizens. Look at the structure of the budget's income. The additional value tax is 48.7% of the budget. Of that, 205 billion dinars are VAT from imports, and 99 billion dinars are achieved in the country. It's a poor government based on import growth. Have you heard of the term of domestic production, domestic economy, Serbian economy? You don't care, you're only interested in selling that other stuff and, normally, your commissions. Mr. Albianic, your encrypteds promised 500,000 jobs in the previous election campaign. You admitted today, these days you admitted that Serbia has a negative employment rate. So, you didn't hire, or open any new jobs, except, of course, for members of your parties, they had to be invented by some new job, like these agencies you're making up. You said the inflation in 2007 would be about 6%. For the first 10 months, inflation is 8.7% and will be over 10% by the end of the year. Why, Mr. Minister? Your budget is inflatable, both in 2007, and in 2008. You have predicted a deficit of 14.8 billion dinars, plus 74.4 billion dinars; a total of 89 billion dinars will be reconciled from unknown sources. You said foreign direct investment would be very high and would amount to more than 2.6 billion euros. How can such investments not lead to new jobs? Serbia's economy is in charge of 5.5 billion dollars abroad in a year. How is it possible that you failed to open any jobs in Serbia for this money? Do you know where the money is, Mr. Minister? They went to pay back their previous debts, either the economy, or the population, through bank loans. One part of the money is in commissions with various ministers and officials of this government. Today, the Serbian economy is in debt slavery, and very soon there will be a Serbian state in debt slavery. That's what will happen when you no longer have anything to sell and the taxpayers can't serve their obligations. That day is very near, beware, your time is up, but no punishment has come upon you, the punishment of the people. It will catch up with you and start arriving with 20 January 2008 and will continue in all subsequent elections, when the people of Serbia will show confidence in Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia and the SRS, so that we can take this country on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14453	The word is from Ambassador Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, here, I will now give one parallel piece of information why the SRS and my distinguished colleague Bozidar Koprivica insist that this division be deleted from the budget 45, function 510, and that these agencies be abolished. At the Ministry of Environmental Protection, next to the Ministry, which is really needed and needs to do its job, which is what it was founded for, because we've had major environmental problems, with river pollution, air, water, land, there's the Environment Protection Agency, the Environment Fund, and there's a recycling agency. You already have three parallel institutions within the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I will give as an example the Public Communal Company of Pogorec, which has 270 workers and a salary fund, at an annual level, below 100 million. The environment ministry has a 228m-dollar salary and allowance fund. The question arises, how many employees in one ministry such as the Ministry of Environmental Protection, besides ministers, assistants and all others, or is that perhaps an insufficient number of workers? However, wages are enormously high, given the example I cited, where wages are at the level of the average of the Republic of Serbia. So, all these agencies are, in fact, parallel institutions, which spend the funds of Serbian citizens. For example, besides the Ministry, which is given $228 million for wages, another 20 million for the Environment Protection Agency is allocated, so the Environment Fund has 18 million for salaries, so eventually, the Recycling Agency, where another 12 million dinars are spent. That's why our budget can't be developmental, because as long as it covers the costs of all the parallel institutions of the ministries, it can't be projected and invested in something that should be developmental for our country. The draft budget says that the Agency for Recycling, in the context of its work in the area, directly cooperates with the Ministry of Environment Protection, as well as with other ministries and special organisations, and special organisations are all parallel institutions, other agencies and the Environmental Protection Fund. Then the question arises what does the Ministry of Environmental Protection do when so many parallel agencies, funds, participate in operations within the Ministry of Environmental Protection? This is just one example of how the non-intentional spending of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is spent, and it is known what it is, because in all these agencies, it is known that the minister from one political party that is in power, from the DS, is probably the director of the DSS, and in another, perhaps, from the NS or from G17 plus, so that the staff of all these political parties is reconciled. What do they do? They deal with managerial affairs, bring in foreign companies to do certain projects in Serbia, but do not bring them to invest here and invest their funds, but simply spend on certain marketing services that work for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so it is a huge and massive apparatus, which cannot withstand a much more powerful state than the Republic of Serbia. That is why the SRS is investing amendments to delete all these agencies, which are parallel institutions to the ministries that are currently in the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, all this will change, because it must be done, firstly, to transform all ministries. As I was saying in the previous report, we are the state with the most ministries and the highest agencies, so that in the coming period there will have to be a change, firstly, of the authorities, where the SRS, where the reconstruction of the entire government, will be reduced by the number of ministries, closed by such agencies, which do not bring anything good to the citizens of Serbia in terms of environmental and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14455	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) On article 5, the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you're here, I suppose, in front of the arguments I'm going to make regarding my amendment, of course, you'll accept that amendment. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, to split up 46 and function 430 is deleted. For the sake of the public, let me say that Article 5 refers to the allocation of funds to be raised in the budget, and the part I propose to delete concerns the Agency for Energy Efficiency. I just have to remind the citizens that the agencies, like mushrooms after the rain, started nothing since 2001, agencies, services, bureaus, offices, who knows what you've set up, and that's how it was until 2004, somewhere until 2005, and then some agencies started to introduce laws, so this energy efficiency agency was formed by the Energy Act of 2004, it was published in the "Official Messenger" 84/04, which predicts the existence of that agency. How pointless these agencies are, the MPs of the SRS have shown you so far a large number of amendments submitted. I think, along with administrations, offices, bureaus, funds, there are hundreds. I'm going to focus my analysis on the Energy Efficiency Agency, but I need to focus a few sentences on the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. Namely, when then Minister of Economic Relations Milan Parivodic spoke about the agency, he said that the agency and the funds for its work would be assisted by foreign states and foreign NGOs and other organisations. Today, 199m and 300,000 dinars are foreseen for the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, with a million and 200 000 being donations from foreign countries. What kind of situation our exports are in, here are a few sentences. From day to day, Serbia's foreign trade deficit is constantly falling, and we will analyse only the data provided from January to August. Serbia's foreign trade exchange with the world was 16.1 billion, of which 11.6 billion were imports and 5.5 billion exports, suggesting we have a 5.6 billion deficit. It should be expected that by the end of this year, the deficit will be 8.5 billion, and we have this agency that hasn't done anything for that part of the job. We have these significant problems, and the minister has said these days – whether the budget will be adopted on 15 or 19, the exact date of adoption will be forgotten, it is important that we adopt that budget. We in the SRS insist on respecting all deadlines, respecting the obligations of all citizens to the state, but we are asking the current government to respect the citizens. When a taxpayer is late to hand over just one day of any document, tax returns, then your, Mr. Minister, tax administration, intervenes and punishes the Serbian citizen in the most drastic way, who has not submitted a document in one day, which, by the way, has no major importance. This does not mean that we are pushing for a delay in meeting obligations by Serbian citizens, but rather, for respect of discipline, but also, the government had to send this budget to the National Assembly and was to be adopted within the deadlines foreseen by law. The budget couldn't have been adopted within the deadline, you know for what reason? A visit to the IMF mission to Serbia, or the Serbian government, or the Ministry of Finance. That is why Minister Cvetkovic can sit here for seven days; he is not fit, he has no opportunity, he cannot accept any amendment submitted by MPs to the National Assembly. What was then established? Then he was told in what way should this budget be proposed? They left on November 7th, a summit was held on November 8th; on the one hand there were 300 biggest exporters from Serbia, and on the other hand, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. You remember, a few days ago he was here and the citizens of Serbia say, everything he said, praisefully, can be tormented and spilled. He was on the other side, Minister Cvetkovic, Minister Mladjan Dinkic and, I think, Bubalo was to make some strategy with exporters, how to behave in the coming period. Those from the IMF left on November 7th and on November 12th at an extraordinary cabinet session, a draft of the 2008 budget was adopted. Now I'd like to go back to what I, as an MP, expect from the Energy Efficiency Agency. In preparation for this amendment, I talked to a number of people working in electricity, working in electricity, working in power plants and elsewhere in the EPS system, and asked if they had succeeded, since this agency was introduced in 2004, to recognise its existence and does it mean anything to them and Serbian citizens? Of course, no one recognized the agency's activity. She employs 12 workers, and for her work there is a budget of 28 million. The biggest part is, they say, for wages, $12.5 million, head to head, straight to head - a million. It's not enough, they also have four million for 12 employees, in terms of some rewards, and what are the rewards, when their effects are not in practice? I'll talk about what we expected from that agency later. In an explanation, the SRS MPs read this, you or someone else, Mr. Minister, say most of the funds for this agency will be spent on the name of personal incomes, but some of the funds will be spent on translation, writing contracts, improving and passing expert exams. We thought that those who are employed by the Agency were people with an extremely high degree of intelligence, that they should not pass any expert exams, and they should now pass professional exams, only 12 employees. My colleagues are absolutely right when they say these agencies are forming to hire party activists. There's something else going on. The goal is to destroy the entire economic structure in the Republic of Serbia. The agency, unlike that export acceleration agency, receives 9m and 800,000 dinars from international organisations in the name of funding and activity, and already the SRS MP Zoran Krasic said only in the mousefish is free of charge, everything else costs. Respected citizens of Serbia, these 9 million, now and 200,000, will cost us enormously. What did we expect this energy efficiency agency to do and do? To give some solutions to reduce the loss of power transmission. It is common for loss in the electricity transmission system to range from 2% to 3% in the surrounding countries. We have it from 6% to 12%. So, twice as much, and somewhere three to four times larger than that in the surrounding countries. We have the theft of electricity before the measuring instruments, we have called for civil disobedience in Nis, where the citizens of Nisa are struggling to settle their debt to the state. They want it, but they are no longer able, because then a member of the DS or, perhaps, one of the vice presidents or chairman of the DS District Committee, Mr Zoran Zivkovic, later also known as prime minister in the government, called for civil disobedience, urged citizens not to pay for electricity and they, listening to him, of course, could not, because they were such conditions of submission, had not had enough funds to pay for it. Then we came to such a position that, later on, some employees of electricity distribution, or in the EPS system, were trying to find some opportunities, some systems and devices, to teach the citizens or, perhaps, a narrow circle of people, in which way electricity can be stolen. Then, because of the resistance in the wires, there is a huge loss in the transmission of electricity. What was done to use electricity in the most efficient way? In the economy, agriculture, industry has done almost nothing, and households are very slow to reduce electricity consumption due to outdated devices. Normally, as old devices, electricity consumption is growing and higher, and you are only taking care of yourself, not of the citizens of Serbia, in which way it restores its devices and thus reduces electricity consumption. It seems to me that a good job, where Serbia was, is passing the gas pipeline arm, a memorandum signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia, between "Serbia" and "Gasprom Export" from Russia. However, those who run the electricity industry, who are carefully taking care of Serbian citizens, act as if it were brought under question, and we expect, and it would be realistic to expect, at an annual level between 18 billion and 20 billion cubic metres of gas to pass through Serbia, all the way to Italy. Whether this job will be realised until the end, we don't know, we don't know anything about this government, but once the SRS is in power in Serbia, it will certainly be over. There goes my minister, and I wanted to say, I don't mean him personally, when this government was born, it would have been better if my mother had died, they know who their mother is, there would have been less damage for the citizens. Mr. Finance Minister, it seems to me that distinguished colleague Jorgenka Tabakovic said she was a good economist, I'm not an economist, I believe her, worked as a director of the Privatisation Agency. He was probably well under the skin, as our people would say, and, well, now he's a little bit of a finance minister, so his grandkids can say – our grandfather was a finance minister. What did Grandpa do for Serbian citizens? It's nothing. He was, and when he's gone, we'll forget about him very soon. And the finance minister in the radical government once, Mr. Pachu, remained to be remembered today. That will be the radical finance minister again. I don't want to tell you a secret about who it's gonna be, so let's just think about who it might be. Something, for sure, I have to tell the citizens of Serbia. All these agencies, the bureaus, I don't know what names you haven't given, the office of the president of the Republic of Serbia, will disappear after 20 January. But Serbia will be the highest adviser to the president of the Republic. Do you know who that will be? It will be citizens of Serbia, whose wishes and advice, certainly, the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, will respect, because they want him to be the President of the Republic with all their heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14457	The word is from MP Vladan Batic, about the amendment. Mr. Batic, you're a little late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14458	Mr. Albianic, I don't know what your unintelligent insights mean, but it doesn't matter, it's not worth talking to you, it's too late to change you and educate you a little. You're not that age. To address the citizens of Serbia. So, as the law says, 'The Energy Efficiency Agency has been educated to carry out professional tasks to improve conditions and apply measures to rational use of energy, as well as to increase energy efficiency in all sectors of energy consumption. "I'd like to ask if this has anything to do with Trepcha"? Before we talk about rational use of energy and energy, let's deal with how the Mining-Toping Base works. The other day, a celebration called "Trepce" was held, at which the highest recognition was granted, means, the charter, to Prime Minister Kostunica. The Trepca doesn't do anything, but it shares the charter, and it's the greatest confession. Probably, the prime minister wasn't even informed about it, it's all in line with the rationalization of the use of energy. So, what I was going to ask – why did Minister Dinkic, a question for Ripli, not for Dinkic, give, or rather, donate 40 million dinars, because there has been no production in Zvecan for the seventh year, everything collapses, everything sells, everything gets robbed, and workers receive a minimum? That money, by the way, is given from the Development Fund, not to mention the crime involved in the sale of lead concentrate. So what kind of energy efficiency agency are we talking about? One more thing, the Kombinat, or 'Holding Trepca', owned a business space on Knez Michael Street No. 11-15, on the sixth floor, and two years ago, the director of "Holdinga Trepca", as if it were his grandfather's, sold 229 square meters of business space in Knez Mihail Street, therefore, in the most exclusive place in Serbia, at a price of 2,200 euros per square metre, or at a price tenfold lower than the market. So, Prince Michael's street, the most exclusive place in Serbia. It was done without the consent of the board of directors, without a tender, sort of, for the sake of it, as Alibek's straw, a man sold it as if it were his private property. You'll hear more about it. To explain the terms and conditions of the sale: 70,000 euros immediately, and the remaining amount in eight months of war, without giving dynamics when the first war is paid and until the last war is due. In order to make it even bigger, the payment has to be made at the expense of the Trepca Union's Unity Organization. It seems to us that in vain there is an Energy Efficiency Agency if, in this way, the most expensive place in Serbia, the sale of the "Trepce" property. But since I mentioned Prince Michael's street, we have other exclusive spaces on Prince Michael's street, these are buildings no. 5, No. 41 and No. 45, which the Privatisation Agency, as part of the Slave Houses, sold against the law, because it is a kidnapping, it is state property and could not possibly be owned by the Slave Houses, nor the subject of purchase, and yet it has been declared a major business success. A trade court in Belgrade has challenged this kidnapping and found that it has no right to property of the slave houses on these three of the most significant buildings of the slave houses. Remember when Mrs. Ginić said – the buyer will pay; the buyer said – no, I paid for everything. Then you have a temporary measure, in this verdict the other day, a ban on alienation and a burden on immobility. Otherwise, the customer is very nice, or a majority buyer of two-thirds of the Slave Houses. As we find out, I don't know if it's official, they're bought by the Murphy Investment Fund, by the legal follower of Laiki Bank, and the Laiki Bank is the successor of the Sypers Popular Bank, while the Cypruss popular bank is the one whose accounts had Serbian money. And those phantom of the company, which was formed by the current Cypriot President Tasus Popapoulos for the purposes of the regime. Don't believe in that great love of Cyprus to Serbia. That love is worth money. So, "Antexol", "Brauncort" and all eight phantom of-shor companies had their accounts in "Laiki Bank", or "Sippers popular bank," or two-thirds buyer of the Slave Houses. Now, let's see whose money it was, that went to the bags, bags, bags, suitcases, to Larnaca airport, and then instead of going to the Belgrade Bank account in Cyprus, went to the account of the phantom companies at the Cyprus Popular Bank, or Laiki Bank, or to the buyer of the Slave Houses. So, it's very interesting that the Prince of Michael's street, but remember always the one - kidnapped - cursed. Like the unremembered kidnapping of PIC Zemun. It would be worth giving us an answer to that question, because it is also sought by the PIC Union Zemun, and the ASNS Union, and the PIC's strike committee Zemun, which is the majority of the workers of this agricultural and industrial combination, who are trying, in this letter, to resist the tycoon way of privatisation and the unremembered abduction of the Zemun Agricultural and Industrial Combine, who started an illegal shift of the Assembly of Workers' and the Management Board, in 2005, which many, of the Privatisation Agency, were awarded through the one who evaluated on behalf of the Privatisation Agency. I'm just saying what it says in a memo from two unions and a strike board. I do not make personal observations, and "CES Mekom" estimated that the total property of Combinata Zemun is worth 5m euros, and in this complex the land is, among other things, 500 hectares of city building land, and it is clear to the laymen that it is worth tenfold, fiftyfold, probably hundreds more than the Agency's estimate of privatisation. Of course, the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation played its role with Minister Predrag Bubal at the helm, who keeps silent and does not react to what is a flagrant theft and kidnapping. Since 11 May 2006, systematic destruction and reduction of the value of the Zemun Agricultural-Industrial Combine, which included many, including the Association Union and one of the political parties, which loves six-digit or nine-digit numbers, which are the only ideology of money, especially dirty money. During that period, the largest theft in the Zemun Agricultural-Industrious Combine, 214 hectares of land, 300 head of cattle, a 300 thousand-euro dedicated loan, a 600-euro John Dir combination, an entire year for 2006 from 2,000 hectares, an attempt to translate from social property to state property of about 800 hectares of agricultural land, so that, after that, by some legal gymnastics, it would return to its original state, etc. The Strike Committee sent more memos to the ministries, the Agency, NGOs, asking for answers to questions about where 300 hectares of land went missing, how a dedicated loan of 24 million and 700 thousand dinars was spent, where 300 cattle were missing, how did the John Dir combination go missing, and where was the entire year for 2006 sold? There's no answer to these questions. All documents, with contributions, with criminal charges, have been forwarded to all possible addresses and are all neatly silent, because this is something that is the result of a compromise within the ruling coalition, because "they've been picking honey, so they've got their fingers dirty." What I wanted to ask Minister Cvetkovic, that's what about paying back the money on selling the Traveller to our diaspora man, Serbs Ilic? He ruled the arbitration court in Paris in his favor. The government has reached its conclusion, and for its known reasons, the Deputy Prime Minister, Cvetkovic and Vesna Djindjic, Mr Djelic, will not honour the government's conclusion. The government has concluded that the money is coming back. The arbitration court in Paris ruled that the money would return and now, through the Belgrade Trade Court and some temporary measures, a real vision and a curtain not to return, hundreds of thousands of euros are being spent because they do not want to respect the decisions of the international court. I don't know if this manners Mr. Djelic acquired from his partner relationship with one of the heads of the tobacco mob, but he didn't answer the questions he was asked here. Is he co-owner of 48.5% of Sokobanja's company, as partner of one of the heads of the tobacco mob, who were indicted the other day, on the Special Prosecutor's charge of organized crime? And when he's here, and when he's not here, Mr. Djelic, we're going to look for an answer to that question. Do not tell us about the Energy Efficiency Agency, and millions of people from the pockets of the impoverished taxpayers of Serbia are being robbed here, in the form of a struggle for European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14459	Mr. Batic, I'm warning you of article 103. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The agenda is the amendment of MP Sreta Peric, and we must stick to it in the future. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, 52 amendments were submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, as well as my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Section 5, Section 52, Function 410, requesting that this member be deleted, more specifically, section 52. I have to read, for the sake of the public, one more explanation that my colleagues, my previous speakers, have made, which is that the SRS is against the establishment of agencies for everything and everything, because it's an expensive and slightly efficient part of the state's apparatus. ''No agency established so far has given the expected results in its work, so it is unnecessary to allocate funds for the Agency's work from the budget, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. If that's the case, I'll give you a few examples. I don't care that the minister isn't in the O.R. right now, because he's not a representative of the Agency that I'm asking for budgets to be deleted, but for the sake of citizens and for the sake of MPs, I'm going to give a few examples that will make it clear to everyone that this agency has no meaning or role in the sphere in which it works. First, Dejan Kostic, director of the Agency, says in means of public information – the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes works on the principle of volunteering, which means that anyone who has a dispute must first report to the Agency. When mutual agreement is reached, it is approached by peaceful solution to the problem, through arbitration, with the possibility that parties in the dispute choose a judge, which is once again a widely known fact as to who the directors of the agency are, who are the officials in those agencies. We've heard examples that there are no more than five people here, and they're coffee cooks, maids, etc. Why would an employer and workers see their interest in resolving disputes in front of the Agency? In fact, because the procedure, they say, is free of charge for all parties in the dispute, which is absolutely incorrect, and then I'll prove to you how. So, even, it's not cheap, it's free, because all the costs the parties would have in front of the court, starting with court fees, through skills, to other things, which are not negligible even for the employer, and even more for the worker, the Agency handles itself. The budget funds that are intended for the agency itself are not small at all, but we'll talk about that in the follow-up. Secondly, it is a savings for the country itself, explains Dejan Kostic, director of the agency. And 25,908,000 dinars were allocated to this agency in the 2008 budget. If that's savings, if it's something that will improve the budget and affect better work and better standards for Serbian citizens, through spending money on such an agency, then let's all honor the minister who presented this budget here as good. An example that is drastic and that shows how hypocritical it is to form any agency, including this one, is the next. According to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, according to an estimate he gave – by preventing the strike, for example, working in the technical sector of JAT last year, we saved the state a lot of money in 20 days, given that only the day of the strike costs 450 to 500,000 euros. Peaceful dispute resolution is what everyone wins. Disturbation has been avoided, workers regularly earn their own personal income, since it is an abnormal thing here, the employer earns profits, and the state collects taxes. ''A clear question arises – who caused the strike, what causes strikes in public enterprises, what are the conditions that workers have in these companies? We're here making a solution for something that wasn't caused, with the fact that it's predetermined, that something will be caused, and that's a strike. So, for the sake of the need of a strike, let's form an agency that will strikers, or some union, sort of reconcile with the employer. That's impossible in Serbia. First, the court is in charge of such matters. Second, even in court, employers seek salvation using their party ties. Third, more money will be given to the court than to any worker in order to exercise his rights, more specifically, the theft he intended, in a 2000-year robbery privatisation. According to the director of this agency, Kostic – it is planned that the Agency will soon introduce'myrientere' and arbiters and for certain regions, so that all work disputes will be resolved quickly and where they are accumulated. Then it's the southern Serbian or the Shumadi. So this agency is planning to expand. If he's using 25,908,000 now, then how much will he use for seven people, how much is he working at the Agency? I don't want to repeat what my predecessors said, which is that these agencies are made up of party personnel whose ministers are already recognizable. I would especially like to point out that if the minister is from one party, and the president or director of the agency from another party, there may be a conflict, according to a system that will steal more. That's why these agencies don't make any sense, especially the results. First, it is necessary to amend certain members of the Labour Act, for which workers are brought into a humiliating position, for which they are denied basic human and labour rights. I'll just give you a few examples. An employee can't get fired if he refuses to sign a labour contract annex, which determines a smaller volume of rights than the one he had. Then, that the Law lays down the minimum amount of warm meals and annual regress, to prescribe that an employee declared a technological surplus cannot give up the right to severance, thus avoiding the increasing pressures of employers, who evaluate their workers and thus force them to quit. This is one example of how problems related to the Labour Law should be solved, related to workers and employers, with this agency not having any points of contact. I'll give you a few examples of where this agency was supposed to react, and it didn't react. It is the tragic death of Borisvoj Vučević, worker of Zorkina Nemetal factory, who strike hunger with his colleagues to achieve his labour rights. Where was the Agency? Why didn't the Agency meet then? It was the last warning to the state, which must stand in the way of wild privatisation, to ensure respect for the purchase contracts. Unfortunately, that agency had nothing to reconcile, the man died of hunger strikes. The agency has not continued to react, although the SRS has warned that new owners are mass breaching the contract and failing to meet social programmes, leaving 1,000 people on the street without any compensation and hope of finding a new job. The state authorities, as a rule, don't react at all, or react, but when it's too late, form works, the media works. The direct consequence is the increasingly frequent hunger strikes, with workers trying to exercise their rights that belong to them under the Law, which is bad anyway. But they're not allowed to do that either. We ask the authorities, and this agency, how many more desperate workers do they need to die to protect their elemental rights? Second case. Will the Agency determine who is responsible for the tragedy in the copper mine "Jama", RTB Bor, where one human life is lost and dozens of others are seriously endangered? Those workers never got the answer to this question either. It is particularly worrying that the miners have long warned that the water has penetrated the pit and that it is a possible disaster that has occurred. But the Agency didn't have any activity. It is obvious that none of the authorities controlled the protection measures at work and the situation in this mine, so that everything, in itself, as well as in all other public enterprises, would be left to the case. The Serbian Radical Party then warned of poor protection at work in Serbian businesses, in our mines, construction sites and factories, but these warnings did not reach the Agency's ears. We therefore call on the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which is responsible for this area, and not the Agency, to control the working conditions, to start doing its job, because this accident is a direct consequence of their unwork, which can't even, not even the Agency, of any calming employers or workers. When tragic failures are made in a system such as RTB Bor, it is not difficult to figure out what is happening in smaller businesses across Serbia, whose employers are not known at all. I'd like to give another example, the previous speaker said something more extensive about it, I'll do it briefly. He mentioned that no party responded to memos that arrived at the MPs' clubs. Many police forces entered the PIC Zemun's office on 11 May, around five hours and blocked the building, detained the guard, and prevented workers from entering the company's premises. It is, in fact, the government's attempt, which introduced provisional measures into the company on 30 September last year, to appoint new members of the Management Board to force new leadership. PIC workers Zemun prevented newly elected leadership from entering the administrative building in January this year, because it was set up on a solution that was not justified. Did the Agency know whether this solution was just or not? Did the Agency calm these people down with the new PIC buyer Zemun? No, I don't. Did the Agency prepare the ground for some robbery privatisation of PIC Zemun? All this is an open question for which they receive a reward of 25,908,000 a year. The situation was extremely tense when several workers poured gasoline. The drama continues, this time PIC workers Zemun are ready for even more drastic measures to defend their labour rights. We had the opportunity to see who was arrested in the means of public information, from which the parties were the people who were arrested and why they were arrested. There's still a lot of examples. So that I don't get all this, because I don't have a lot of time, I want to say next. What's the court for? What are labour laws for, which are so bad, but they're not being respected either? What is the Privatization Act for? The privatisation agency is the cause of all this and then a new agency is formed, to iron out what someone else has wrinkled. It's being rewarded again, I'm going to mention one more time, with 25,908,000 dinars. There have been no sensitive changes during this period when it comes to private property. Illegal privatisations, burglaries, thefts, and illegal alienation of other people's property continue. What was taken away earlier is not yet returned to the owners. There has been no improvement in the field of labour rights. The transition to Serbia is a very painful process. There remains a very high rate of unemployment, low and irregular pay, poor regulation, disrespect for the rights of employees and the self-will of directors and powerful men, corruption and crime. In translation, there are no signs of a fair judiciary and the rule of law, courts delay the end of a decision, often biased and continue to be massively violated by laws and human rights. Crime and the mafia have not been contained, the decommissioned have consolidated and connected with the current government, which is widely known to criminals, and as such block the shifts in overcoming the crisis, to the joy of all those in the country, the environment and the world, which correspond to the spread of chaos and confusion in our country. Examples of companies that I have cited clearly say that this agency, called this, has absolutely no obligation or jurisdiction, no authority to be a budgetary user, because it does nothing. It is there because of the DS, DSS and others in the coalition, which is tasked with ordering the minister to find some space in the budget, so as not to leave his people, members, sympathisers or activists without a source of funding. This clearly states that all these agencies, which are required by the amendments of the SRS MPs, are not needed and do not require funds in the 2008 budget. This can't be allowed anymore. Citizens of Serbia, please, in front of the SRS, do not repeat the mistake – according to the "minute of satisfaction – four years of suffering", vote for Mr Tomislav Nikolic with all your heart and then we will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14461	Does anyone else appear on the amendment of MP Milan Avramovic? (No) The 54th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Lasslo Varga. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14462	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I am wrong to say that the draft budget law is the most important legislative proposal on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. For that reason, I have four prize questions for the chairman. The first question is, where is the head of the DS Parliament Club? Question number two, where's the head of the DSS Parliament Club? Third question: Where is the head, or head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club? Fourth question: Is there in Europe any country in which, when a debate on the budget law is being held, representatives of parliamentary clubs of the ruling majority simply do not come to meetings of the National Assembly. Can I have the answers, and then I'd like to continue on the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14463	The heads of Parliament clubs are on their work assignments. As vice president of the assembly, I'm the boss of the bosses. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14464	So if I convince you, then you have a mandate to accept this amendment of mine. Therefore, for administrative districts, funding amounting to 433 million dinars in the draft budget has been planned. Minister Markovic told the speaker a few weeks ago that a large number of administrative districts are doing nothing. He literally said those words then. The state spends nearly half a billion dinars on their operation. On the other hand, it unfairly distributes it. In fact, 17% more funds per capita than the Northboa County are provided for in the Northboa County. With the amendment, we proposed a reduction in the expenditures of the Northobanat County of 1,330,000 dinars and an increase in the projected funds for the work of the Northoba district by the same amount, with the aim of ensuring that the costs of functioning of these two administrative districts per capita are equal. The government rejected the amendment, explaining that in 2008, the North obliging district would have greater needs, above all, because of the planned means of adaptation and reconstruction of the district headquarters building, as well as for the purchase of computer equipment and software. As evidence that the person who wrote the explanation of the amendment has not read the amendment, I suggest that the expenditure on payments for the North obliging district and that the funds for the same purposes are increased in the Northobaco County, and the funds planned for the adaptation and reconstruction of the building, as well as for the purchase of computer equipment and software, remain intact by this amendment. Why did we propose to cut wages for the Northoban and increase for the same purpose for the Northboa County? For two reasons. On the one hand, both districts have the same number of employees, so eight employees. It is therefore incomprehensible that wages in the Northobanat County require 17% more funds than the same number of employees in the Northboa County. Somebody explain this to me, this is incomprehensible to me. On the other hand, 165,881 citizens live in the territory of the North obit, according to the latest census, of 200,140 inhabitants. It's not possible, I think it's against every logic that the same number of employees serve so many different populations. In fact, there are slightly more than 20,000 people in the North Obatan County who are employed in the administrative district, and the figure is 25,000 per employee in Northoba County. Something, ladies and gentlemen, is wrong, and I'm going to try and explain what the State Administration Act says, which came into force on 29 September 2005. According to Article 39 of that Law, the Government teaches administrative districts by means of a regulation, with the obligation to determine the area of the administrative district in such a way as to allow for the rational and effective work of the county district units of the state administration. The government adopted a regulation, which entered into force on 7 March 2007, on administrative districts, when it attached the same regulation to the North Danube municipality (Adu, Kanjiz and Sent). The problem is, therefore, that this regulation is illegal and, therefore, anti-constitutional, because this organisation does not allow for the rational and effective work of the county departments of the state administration. Why? The best evidence is the 2008 draft budget. In fact, because of this completely irrational organization of these two administrative districts, it is much more expensive to maintain the system of these two regional authorities of the state administration. This anti-legislative and anti-constitutional regulation has caused disorganisedness, in practice, the entire social and economic life of this region. Now I'd like to explain what this deorganization is about. On the one hand, imagine, for example, that the police administration of the MUP, based in Subotica, is responsible for three municipalities, for Subotica, Backo Topol and Mali Ijoš, and the regional administration in Kikinda, besides others, for Ada, Kanjiž and Sent, means, for three Bačvanian municipalities. Therefore, the citizens of Ade, Sente and Kanjije are going to pick up ID cards, passports, traffic and driver's licenses in Kikind and they need more time and more costs. On the other hand, you have an organisation of public prosecutors, i.e. the District Public Prosecutor's Office and the District Court in Subotica, which is responsible for the territory of the municipalities of Subotica, Bačka Topola and Mali Ijoš, and besides them for the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiž and Senta. So the police administration is one way, the District Public Prosecutor's Office and the District Court in another way. Now imagine a new system of conducting an investigation. A crime is committed in Kanjiza, the district attorney is in Subotica, the head of police administration is in Kikinda, imagine the efficiency of the work of these state authorities, instead of being a mile away from each other, how far is the distance between the headquarters of the Management District in Subotica and the police administration. As for economic life and its disorganization, there is the Regional Chamber of Commerce, which is based in Subotica, under whose jurisdiction are the municipalities of Subotica, Bačka Topola and Mali Ijoš, and, on the other hand, the Kykinda-based Chamber, which also has Ada, Kanjiž and Sent within its borders. On the other hand, the trade court in Subotica is responsible for the municipalities of Subotica, Bačka Topola and Mali Ijoš, of course, and for Ada, Kanjija and Senta. Of course, the telecommunications area of these five municipalities, or six municipalities, is unique and has a call number 224. The Northbonatian administrative district is a completely different telecommunications area, with a completely different calling number, which means huge costs, i.e. a huge cost increase per minute of conversation. To continue with another area of life - health insurance. For example, the Republic Health Insurance Office, based in Subotica, is responsible for the territory of Subotica, Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš, and, on the other hand, the branch office for the North obatrics, in addition to the Banatian municipalities, is responsible for Ada, Kanjija and Sainta. It's the same situation with the National Employment Service. On the other hand, of course, the Republic PIO Fund doesn't have this kind of organization. They don't belong to these Bhutanian municipalities under the auspices of a subsidiary in Kikinda. Why is this harmful to the citizens, ladies and gentlemen? Because 72 thousand citizens are harassed, practically, every day by this irrational organization. I claim this is a geographical issue, or it should be, not political. Namely, the Tisa River flows between Backa and Banata, and Ada, Kanjiz and Senta are located on the Bachvan side. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that the inhabitants of Kanjiza, Sente, as well as Ade or Mola, are deeply hampered by the fact that these municipalities are practically in Banat. If you do not believe me, there are MPs in the People's Assembly from Ade, ask him. I think he will confirm what I say. Of course, Minister Markovic agreed with me a few weeks ago that this should not be a political issue. Do you accept?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14465	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14466	So, let me keep going. Meet the citizens of Ade, Kanjija and Sente, fulfill their dream, which has been going on for 15 years. I think that would be fair. It's simply that this unfair organization, which is so irrational, that it was allowed to conclude from those figures that I put forward in relation to the draft budget law, I think it's unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14467	Thank you, Mr. Varga. Is there anyone else calling about the amendment? Yes, there is a word from MP Radovan Radovanovic and then from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14468	Thank you very much. I absolutely support this amendment by my fellow Members of our Parliament, MP Lasla Varga. I wanted to add a sentence or two to everything he said. As far as this injustice is holding back the people of Backa, from the north of Backa, show strong signatures on two petitions, which they have set up, I think that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina was doing it in 2002, and the Union of Duchy Hungarians 2004, if I'm not mistaken, will correct me. It's about 20,000 signatures of people from this territory, who said they should be sent back to the county they belong to. This is all about the money and another confirmation that the money is shared for the County. It's another confirmation that everything that hasn't been solved has to be resolved systemically, as far as money is concerned. As far as money's concerned, it's actually the most painful thing. So, let me remind you, since yesterday, from this morning, it's about money to the AP Vojvodina or money to local self-government. In my opinion, an integral part of the 2008 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia was supposed to be this 36.1 billion as a donation to local self-government -- to write to what local self-government on the territory of the Republic as much money as it belongs. Why do I say that? I'm afraid it's simply going to happen again, which was 2005, 2006, which is that the money in local self-government was divided by how someone at the bar liked someone from the Ministry or from the government. So there's no criteria. In addition to this law, it should possibly say that the criteria for the allocation of these funds, for example, the number of inhabitants on the territory and local self-government, the size of local self-government itself, the development, the average salary, the number of students, schools, unemployment, the length of local roads, the extent of local self-government of cultural institutions, or cultural institutions, the number of sports collectives, etc. It could all have been written in the bill of this law. I'll tell you how it was in practice in 2006 in Vojvodina. The municipalities, such as Sremski Karlovci, which has one inhabited town, and the town of Sremski Karlovci about 9,000 inhabitants, Irig, which has 12 inhabited towns and about 11,600 inhabitants, Bačka Petrovac, with about 13,600 inhabitants, had more resources from the budget of the Republic of Serbia than the municipality of Bačka Topola, which has 40,000 inhabitants, which has 23 inhabited places, which has six libraries, which has... And the Republic of Serbia valued all of this, i.e. the Ministry of Finance or whoever has already proposed and implemented such a budget, significantly less than the municipality that has 9,000 inhabitants, which has one populated place, not to mention the whole of Serbia. It's just the Duke's case. Property located in the territory of local self-government is still owned by the Republic of Serbia. So that chair that each president of a municipality in the Republic of Serbia is owned by Belgrade, owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are no more serious sources of income for local self-government. So local self-government is left with crumbs of these taxes, which are all kinds, and the sum of these resources coming from the Republic budget. Believe me, there are local self-governments in the territory of the Republic that are receiving, which have more resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget than they can raise themselves. There's a solution to all this. The solution is to return the property to local self-government, to return the property, what belongs to them, to the provinces. The solution is to systematically find sources of funding for local self-government and autonomous provinces. You know how it used to be, not so long ago? So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government know how to do what should be done. We at Backo Topoli had a giro-account, i.e. the beginning of the giro-account 65,200. All taxes and contributions were paid to these giro accounts, even those of the republican and federal who were, part immediately stayed, not only in Backo Topoli, but in every local self-government, and what belonged to the AP, the Republic and the Federation, it was transferred from local self-government to them, and not vice versa -- all the money in Belgrade, and then someone on the stomach, so return to whom he thinks it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14469	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. The word has been issued by MP Zarko Obradovic, on the amendment of MP Lasla Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14470	Mr. Minister, I can tell you that this amendment only serves as a cause for one story that is for Serbia, it seems very important to me, and it concerns part of the funds that local self-government has to do their daily work. I'm not saying this by chance, because the 2008 budget also includes the funds provided for local self-government units. I reported, in particular, to speak a few words about the Bor Municipality Assembly, the Bor municipality, a very important municipality in eastern Serbia, and the fact that the municipality has reduced the transfer funds by 24 million dinars, which is very surprising because there are many municipalities that have increased funds. I'm particularly surprised that this was done, or that Bora was reduced. One might think that now Bor, by some other parameters that serve as the basis for determining the means, has good results, and we all, unfortunately, know that it is not, on the contrary. So much more surprising that Bor has received less funding, because by reducing these 24 million dinar funds, they objectively reduce investment opportunities in the social programme, not to talk about how much there will be, or how much funding there will be for school maintenance, how much less there will be for infrastructure. I'm not bringing this up by accident. Most of you know the situation in eastern Serbia. Eastern Serbia, I say, is almost doomed. If there were no Zaječar and a number of objects that work there and something, possibly, in Negotin, which my colleague Ninoslav Dimitrijevic will talk about, eastern Serbia could unfortunately be buried. There are not only 50-60,000 people living in Bor, but there are RTB Bor. You know for a fact that funds that get local self-government, in terms of income tax, when it comes to Bor, don't work, because RTB Bor doesn't work. As far as these other sources of income are concerned, they are very modest. Then the question arises, if all of this is so bad, and it is bad, what are the reasons why the government managed, what are the arguments, what are the criteria that led the government to do what it did? Otherwise, RTB Bor does not pay the Assembly of the Municipality of original income, that information I received from my party colleague, Deputy President of the Bor Municipality, and has a large debt of 360 million dinars to the municipality. If that's the case, then so many wonders that the funds for Bor have been reduced. It's very hard to live in Bor, almost nothing. This huge giant, which was Bor, works, if you can say it works, but relative to what it was, or what it could do, practically, as if it wasn't working. We see that the government has been trying for a long time to privatise this Bor and achieve a marketing goal, so that it can say – e, we have made the privatisation, we have paid $400m, or the euro, or any foreign currency, into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But what's the point here? It's not just about us socialists, at least, privatizing RTB Bor to fill the budget, and then realizing that there's too much money in the budget and that the state, in practice, doesn't know what to do with them. Then so many more wonders that in part of the transfer funds, some of the municipalities have not received more. Is it possible, perhaps, that the criterion of the allocation of funds to the party, that the coalition that forms the majority, i.e. makes the Government of the Republic of Serbia, provides a larger source of transfer funds to those municipalities where their party comrades are in power?- I'm sorry. What if, if I can, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, introduce a forced administration and form a municipal council on the criteria of party division in the government, then they can also distribute funds, the formal-legal basis will always be found. I would like to hear from Mr. Minister, but perhaps he is not in charge of the story, but from other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for example, to hear whether there is any company in Serbia that has been qualified as a social enterprise, or which is a stock society, if it has entered into the process of property transformation, whether there is any company and that benefits, for example, natural resources, such as ores, water, etc., whether the state has indicated that the strategic interest in the state exists, that this company is developing, developing, developing production, etc. I'm not saying this by chance, the price of copper on the world market right now is extremely high. Of course Bor has great debts, but, with smart state policy, the state could do a lot of things with Bor, of course, if there is common and interest and an assessment that this is of strategic importance to the state. That's the essential question. We saw how privatisation was going in the Republic of Serbia. All is privatized and unfortunately, it is only privatized in a way that destroys this social property as soon as possible, so that the sooner it is poured into some private pockets. I have to tell you honestly that I was startled, for example, when I heard about the privatization of the plant in Alexandrovac that produced raw materials for the processing of water, the water we drink, we had the only factory in the country that produced, I say, these materials for water treatment, and then we sold it, and, of course, we were supposed to buy it from that new owner from another country. Maybe it's a secret story in the following: let's, first, privatize everything, and then after the state, it'll determine what it's strategic interest. If that's the case, then it's one dimension of the story, and if this is the first one, then the government still doesn't know, or there's no strategy on what's important. In some countries that are less than Serbia, perhaps even richer, because perhaps they are more rationally managing what nature has given them, and they have in their hands, so they know how to manage, the state determines exactly what the strategic interest of the state is, what strategic enterprises are, produce, so it stands behind it. There's no state with a completely open market in the world. Whoever's talking doesn't tell the truth. Those countries that drill into breasts and say that they do everything possible to make the market free, that is, to be an example of such a market, have different ways, and do so, to prevent imports of certain products or, if they import, then prices are extremely high, not to endanger the domestic market, of course, if the product is of quality. We can now say that a society in transition, such as ours, has not yet created all the conditions for such a functioning on the market, but we must agree that in previous, in that great Yugoslavia, or in Serbia, however, there were also factories and products that had world value, or European value, if someone believes that, when said world value, it is pre-named. From that, it would be really interesting to hear what the criteria are that the state has defined that the transfer funds for Bor is diminishing, especially it would be good to hear, not tonight from the minister, this has nothing to do with it, but it's an amendment cause, which are the strategic reasons that will allow the state to sell Bor for small money? As much as someone in the ruling coalition has tried to explain that this is the best solution, people who live there, work, think it's not the best solution, but that the state wants to get rid of them as soon as possible and give individuals this huge social wealth. For example, since Majdanpek is part of RTB Bor, I have heard from the academics Grujic that Majdanpek, for example, has five metals that are rare in the world and extremely important as raw materials for certain products, and that they have a fantastic price on the market. It's a question of whether or not the government wants to talk about it. When I mentioned the sources of local self-government income and the fact that the tax is reduced from 14% to 12%, and that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and immovableity is reduced from 5 percent to 2.5%, because it was one of DS's election promises, I mentioned that, objectively, local self-government gets far less money, or less money. Do you have any idea what her obligations are with regard to all the affairs the Law on Local Self-Government provides as authentic matters of local self-government? For example, counterpart Bojan Milovanovic will talk about it tomorrow, so he will tell you what it looks like on the Raška case, where they are formally, in fact, mathematically, resources, even, even increased. However, because of these two taxes, especially reductions in the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and immovableity from 5 per cent to 2.5 per cent, Raška municipality, in one transaction, instead of getting 350. 1,000 euros, he's supposed to get 150. 1,000 euros, which comes, I think, to me, 12 million dinars, which is an extremely significant means for the municipality. We have a situation that in a significant number of municipalities, the volume of transfer funds has been increased, but according to the people working in local self-government, these transfer funds are not enough to do all those jobs that local self-government has. I mentioned the Bor municipality, perhaps there are others in which the situation is, unfortunately, completely different, despite all the problems Bor has. Not to mention the one that happened to Bora years ago and the advice they got to do with Bora and what to do with themselves, the citizens of Bora, or the employees of Bora. It's some shame you shouldn't look back on, let alone mention it publicly. It was part of the policy that was led after 2000. So all we have to do is destroy everything there is to say tomorrow - we've built one gate, or some smaller object. But it would be interesting to hear how things are, given that the people in Bor are very competent. Since our colleague Rankic, who was in the SRS Parliamentary Group, is now the president of the municipality, I know that he is also fighting a big battle around Bora, and my partner Dragan Zikic, Dragan, asked me to ask a public question, what do I do with pleasure, because it is interesting to hear an explanation of how in such a bad economic situation Bor can find a basis for reducing the transfer funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14471	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14472	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 225 and 226, relating to the presentation of colleagues, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14473	Mr. Vujadinović, you can only talk about the amendment, art. 225 and 226 are not eligible under Article 103. Rules of Procedure, you need to talk about what's on the agenda, so please talk about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14474	Here, about the amendment, about the transfer funds for Bor. So I'm not questioning the discussion of larger or smaller resources for certain municipalities. It is certain that in that position transfer funds are needed and we hope that much more funds will be tied to the general trend of regional development in the coming years. As for Bora directly, I would only say that a colleague, speaking of Bora, the Bora municipality, spoke a little bit in an aorist or in a plus-square. So, RTB Bor, regardless of the extremely difficult situation, on a $500m debt, inherited debt, in this period, for the last two or three years, came to the production of 2,000 tonnes of copper, a thousand from its own production, a thousand from the processing, and that after the partnership, a business-strategic partnership with the "Istpoint". I'm not talking about any favoring, I'm talking about facts. Practically, for the last two years, RTB Bor, when the balance is taken, when the balance is frozen, the balance, the passive, the current income and expenditure covers the current business, the two thousand tonnes of copper, the production of copper, its own and the processing. Of course, it also contributes to the extremely high price of copper, which has reached up to $8000, $8,500 per tonne, and now it's about 7,500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14475	National MP Zarko Obradović, replica by article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14476	Since my colleague Dragan Vujadinovic cherishs the principle of CIP - figures in front of politics, my colleague Vujadinovic, I would be pleased, and I hope the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially the citizens of Bora, to come out and tell us how many RTB Bor had employees in '70. '80s, '90s, '2000s and how much he produced '70s, '80s... and then compare to 2001, 2002, 2003 and the following years. The company of that data would have just figured out which branches Bor had fallen to and why he wanted to... Of course it doesn't matter, what you say, with any company. I simply think that the state should be strategically interested in such a combination as RT Bor, not to leave it to any individual, no matter what his name is, or how much money he has, but to be something called a strategic state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14477	National MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14478	My answer must be familiar and recognizable to everyone. He was where he was, but his passport, it's $600 million in his passport, and he can't work for a long time, for a decade, he can't, when he's looking at economic logic, he's working, so he's restructured, or he's fired his restructuring debts, to see what's going to happen to that balance. It's a story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14479	MP Zarko Obradovic, I hope this ends the controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14480	Mr. Chairman, don't be nervous. Minister, you're doing your job, we're doing our job. If you're bored listening to me and your colleagues, feel free to find another profession. This is the National Assembly, and you are in the National Assembly. When we're in government, there's another treatment. So, if you can, as these people say, if you don't like it, find another job. Mr. Vujadinović, you said -- the figures in front of politics, you just mentioned 500 million passports, now 600 million. What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14481	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? (No) The 56th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, to article 6. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14482	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'll be very brief. I'm calling in an article. 225 and 226. Before I ask the question, Mr. Vujadinovic, all dairy companies have been sold and citizens pay for the most expensive milk in the environment, all olives are sold and citizens pay for the most expensive oil in the environment, all sugars are sold and citizens pay for the most expensive sugar. And the propo facts and figures, my question is – Rasim Ljajic said in September that all pensioners whose pension is less than 8,600 will receive one-time cash assistance. I have to tell you that today, all day long, there are pensioners from Sremska Mitrovica, in particular, a group of disabled pensioners whose pensions are below 8,600, but their demands have been denied. I ask the minister, why? Was it just a pre-election promise or would everyone have the right? Look at the state Serbian pensioners are in when people cry for help from 2,000 dinars. That's the facts. So, I repeat, will disabled pensioners get money if they meet the condition that they have less than 8,600, when and why don't they get it?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14483	The word has been made by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, about his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14484	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I will briefly try to explain the essence of my amendment. It is, in fact, Negotin Health Center, which has been damaged in several ways according to the new plan of a network of health institutions. In order to explain this amendment, I will briefly refer to the general health situation at present, in 2007, and in general, since 2000. How much the government appreciates health care can be seen in the fact that only 6.4% of gross social product is separate for health care. So much the government appreciates the health of people who are healthy, not getting sick, which belongs to preventive health care. That's how much she appreciates sick people, who are being treated, otherwise, in primary, secondary and therapeutic health care. Health care professionals appreciate the extent to which they can provide treatment conditions and patients – to the extent that it allows them to be good. I don't say that by chance, because most often dissatisfied patients show their dissatisfaction to health care professionals, although health care professionals are not responsible for everything that has been lifted, for everything that the law has abolished, or made possible, and the sublegal act abolished. So I advise dissatisfied patients not to argue with health workers, but to argue with the government, with the competent minister, in the end, to fight by going to the ballot box and expressing their dissatisfaction. At present, the state has a health care system that is increasingly fictitious, one health care that can only swear to exist, but this health care is increasingly less and less providing opportunities for people, in fact, with the possibility of meeting the needs of the healers. This does not meet the real needs of patients, both in large cities and in the remotest villages, because it is not enough that there is a hospital fictitious, the hospital should have a certain capacity, or a certain number of beds, to have a certain number of healthcare professionals who can provide conditions, or can treat people who are sick. We don't have that right now. In fact, at this point, we have one philosophy, which is being conducted everywhere, even in health care, which is to reduce the number of workers in half to raise wages, but not certainly double. Then we have, as far as health care is concerned, a mat situation, where the size of the job is as large as it is, where this reduced number of health workers will also be unable to provide a quality service to the patient, because the job remains the same, will not be able to use the days off, will work overtime, etc., and it will not be paid to him, and we are spinning around in circles. Otherwise, I mean, the company works, that the Republic Health Insurance Office has 2.576 employees, which is about 2% and slightly more than the total number of healthcare workers, and wants to receive more people to allow itself continuity in work, and health institutions, especially small, do not. I'm saying that out of the 1,000 newly admitted this year planned for health care, 300 doctors and 700 nurses, Negotin didn't get any new jobs. On this occasion, I would like to ask a question - what are the rights that are exercised from the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and these are for voluntary health insurance? Otherwise, I want to remind you that the Institute is doing business with the deficit, which means that the patients will feel it again by their fees, which they are entitled to, and they will not be able to achieve them because of the lack of money, and also by prescription medications, drug aids, medicines and medical equipment in medical institutions. I'd like to ask you one more question. When will the neuropsychiatric committees finally be formed to complete the processing of other people's care and assistance cases? For a year now, these people have been waiting for this process. To remind the state that these are the most severe patients. It's about immobilized people, people who, I have to tell the public this time, have wounds on their bodies from lying down and not being treated, and the wounds can't be cured, it's expensive to treat them, and they tie a member of the household to themselves, who can't hurt because he has to keep the one who's in bed. The state's attitude towards health is also evident from the fact that the state owes 42 billion contributions to the Institute's burden, and given that the Office is operating with the deficit, here's an opportunity to help citizens, insurance users. Also, the state and users of insurance that are unable to pay taxes and contributions to mandatory types of health care, with a million and two hundred thousand people, are transferred from their budget to the Fund's budget of only four billion dinars, and it is necessary to transfer at least 20 billion dinars, according to an estimate. Then the Fund does not carry out obligations to health institutions, health institutions are inequitable to pharmaceutical houses etc. What I'd still like to point out is that the state is missing in health care. Liver transplants are currently being forced, but it is slightly forgotten about kidney transplants, which have been done for 10 and more years now and are the most economically profitable transplants, as people are being removed from the chronic haemodialysis program. These transplants are done in poor conditions, they are done by people who come at night, by day, to do so, there are not enough funds for such a thing, and the transplant law, which would regulate it, as well as the cadaveric transplants and cadvergic transplant criteria, is not yet being considered. What tortures small health centres, people in small municipalities, spoken of by Zarko Obradovic, refers to the municipalities of Bor and Negotin, all small municipalities, is that the state, through the mechanism of the chosen doctor, took away just all the rights from the mandatory treatment of health insurance; everything the law allowed them, now the state, through the chosen doctor, has taken away from them in one hypocritical way. Why? Because some trust committees are being checked today, so selected doctors who work most are being controlled, and these controls are being abused so that such doctors are being harassed and punished, illegal and illegally, especially in the process when one selected doctor takes patients from another selected colleague who has gone on sick leave, vacation, etc. Controls are done irregularly, in haste, without the presence of a physician who is controlled, and with incomplete insight into the documentation. Doctors are being punished by 50, 60, and more than a thousand dinars. I had a chance to see one of those cases myself. Not to say that the patients living in the village are not able to treat the chosen doctor if the chosen doctor is not in their village, and in 90% of cases the village does not have a doctor, it is the chosen doctor in the city. Now imagine what a situation is when an old man or an old woman, who doesn't have her car and enough money to pay for a taxi or any other means of transport, gets sick and doesn't come to a village infirmary that's going around once or twice a week, but needs to come to Negotin, get a checkup, a guide and anything, then to a specialist doctor, and then go back to her chosen doctor to write prescriptions, etc. There's a lot of traffic going on, and eventually people are buying drugs. These are the anomalies this society is currently producing towards these people. As far as the drug lists are concerned, they are mostly parallel, and there the state boasts of emptyness. Most of the time, these are the lists where the drug parallels have been adopted. The best meds aren't on the list. Also, there are many diseases for which there are no drugs on those lists. In addition, the right has been abolished, i.e. the rights of doctors of general medical specialists and doctors of general practice in regulation, i.e. the inability to prescribe prescriptions that are not on the report.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14485	Mr. Dimitrievich, please, you'll have five minutes for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14486	I'm using it right now, and I'm going to use it tomorrow, because I need to explain the essence of the amendment. This was just an introduction to my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-18-0.u14487	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. It remains five minutes for the SPS, for an amendment submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. One year, with the accompanying documents (the follow-up in details) Today we will work until 15.00 hours. To all who celebrate St. Nicholas today on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly I congratulate the glory, and that other half I want them to have a good time in the guests. I congratulate the members of the Muslim religion on Bajram. We're continuing our work. On Article 6th, 56 amendments were submitted by the MP, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. He used his 10 minutes. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have five minutes left. Here you go.
