ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4213	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by a 141-nation MP. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miletic Mihajlović, Andrea Galgo-Ferenci and Nenad Bogdanovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on civil servants (specifics) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dejan Perjaničić, Srdjan Sajn, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasic, Dr Bojan Milovanovic, Nada Kolundžija and Aleksandar Martinović. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Srdjan Shine has submitted an amendment, with a correction, since 2 July 2007, proposing to add a new member in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dejan Perjanic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4214	Dear Mr. Chairman, highly respected ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The law on civil servants, which reads: "The provisions of this law on division of jobs do not apply to police, customs, tax and officials of the Republic of Geodetic Office and other officials working in security jobs and in institutions for the execution of office sanctions". In a slightly broader explanation, and in the material you have been given an explanation of the purpose of submitting this amendment. I would just like to remind you, in my opinion, the justification for submitting this amendment is also in the Budget Law, which we adopted and passed 15 days ago. Part 35 of the Budget Act in the first position says - the Republic Geodetic Institute in 2007 will finance mainly from its own revenues, which the Institute makes from compensation for the use of data diameters and the provision of geodetic services. Gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would remind you of one observation that the state of order of a state is seen through the catastra of that same state. The Republic Geodetic Institute is a special government organisation within the state administration, entrusted to businesses of special importance for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The immovableity catalogue, as a base land record, built buildings, has key importance for each country. The fiscal system rests on the record of the immovableity catastra, legal security in the transport of immovableity also rests on the catastro. The privatisation process, mortgage loans and many investment plan projects could not even be imagined without data processed in the real estate cataster and in the land cataster. Any political and economic incentive by future foreign investment in our economy will run out of results unless a single immobility register is established. For your information, I am obliged to tell you that there have been three ways to record the immovableity in the Republic of Serbia recently. They are a catastrophe of immovableity, a cadastre of land and land books. The Republic Geodetic Institute has established an immovableity catalogue on about 82% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with a sincere desire to centralise records and prevent unequal conditions, book mortgages and all other burdens on immovable property. The Republic Geodetic Institute, with 160 real estate cadasar services organised in the internal ten regional immobilities cadastre centres, covers the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia with its basic work. There are 2,458 civil servants and tenants working in this office. This is very important. The qualification structure of employees is such that nearly two-thirds of employees are with medium and higher professional training. In this respect, the application of the Law on civil servants and the Law on the Salaries of State Employees, with its regulatory classification of civil servants in calling and fixing the coefficients for the calculation and payment of earnings and the system of valorisation of the skills and work experience of employees, is unacceptable. With all due respect to those who participated in the adoption of these two system laws, on behalf of nearly two thousand employees of the Republic Geodesy Institute, I express some basic remarks. A law such as this is essential for the resolution ministries and special governmental organisations, in which the qualification structure is such that it points to the predominance of state officials with high professional training. In view of the fact that, in the Republic Geodetic Institute, business operators and therefore those responsible for all planned activities, mid- and higher professional staff, since in the Republic Geodetic Service, business operators and all planned activities are these officers, it is difficult to imagine that it is almost impossible to defend the view that the average salary of these officials, between 17 and 20 000 dinars, is sufficient to cover the basic monthly expenditures of the average family. The classification of civil servants in calling and paying groups and paying classes, according to the applicable Law on civil servants and the Law on the salaries of civil servants, condition the inadmissible equalisation of all civil servants, regardless of the years of employment. When it comes to geodetic jobs, which require a routine and expertise that is obtained through years of work, it is unacceptable to equalise the perpetrators with one year of employment and the performer with 10, 20 and 30 years of work experience. In addition, a uniform system for rewarding workers in the state administration is applied only by one criterion defined as an annual assessment of the work, which affects the first results only after two years and is completely unsustainable. In the next period, as the primary task in front of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute, it is not only the formation of a single building site, which is today set up, as I said earlier, in 550 catastrian municipalities, which accounts for 83% of all cadastrian municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, but also the acquisition of land books, the introduction of central records in mortgages and the professional business of the assessment of immovableities that are in legal traffic. Gentlemen and fellow lawyers, who work closely with the Republic Geodetic Institute in the nature of their work, know what it is and how much trouble they face in their daily work and work due to an unskilled assessment of the value of one immovableity. When considering only these facts, it is clear that the social status of civil servants and deputies in the Republic Geodesy Office can only be resolved systematically through changes or additions just ahead of those laws. In that respect, it is necessary to exempt the Republic Geodetic Office from the application of Article 32(2). Law on civil servants, which should read as in the abovementioned amendment. With the necessary changes and additions these two system laws, the difficult material position of employees with medium and higher expertise would be resolved on two basis. Sorting of civil servants and payment agents into paid classes not starting from the first paying grade, but selectively according to years of work experience. Secondly, respecting the complexity of jobs and the burdens of civil servants with the proposed amendments and additions to this law will leave room for the names to be classified by civil servants in the Republic Geodesy Institute to the requirements of each post. It must not be overlooked that only medium-sized professionals have been involved in this institution, which includes field, office or administrative or specific professional affairs, which cannot be compared with their descriptions and tasks, and which are even less comparable with jobs with the same expertise in other ministries and governmental organisations. From the very above, it is necessary, in the application of the Law on civil servants and the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, to leave room for the classification of civil servants with medium and higher professional qualifications to be carried out according to the titles which will be autonomously established by the future law on the national diameter and the cadastre and the registration of the right to immovable property, the Internal Systematisation and Organisation of Jobs or other sublaws. That this is not impossible to point out the system solutions that have been made to the division of jobs by police, customs and tax officials. I would like to thank you in advance and invite you to support the amendment to Law 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4215	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yes, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4216	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not possible to express disgust towards socialism in its political agenda, and when it comes to the officers of the branch where you are employed to seek solutions offered by socialism in terms of rewards and wage definition. Even 78% of all Serbian officials voted in favour of the parties so-called. a democratic bloc. So they thus risked that those who have a majority define and adopt laws that are most often contrary to their personal interests. So that's what you care about when you vote. I'd like to say a few words about a specific amendment. This country has deceived the geodetic service by practically giving a pair of excellencies to private geodetic companies, giving them geodetic bases and thus leaving them one of the most important state institutions practically without a basic tool for work. If something in Serbia is not defined, it is a cadastre. You can't prove if anything 50 or 30 years ago is your grandfather's property or yours, if it can be inherited by your son or anyone else. So in this area and when we talk about investment, and when we talk about the transfer of rights, and when we talk about different other jobs that rely on this, there's total chaos. Serbia has otherwise inherited land books and banner cadastres. Drinska had one thing: the Danube had another, the left and right coast of West Morava had a completely different structure of this area, not to mention what was going on in different procedures during this socialism that I'm talking about, and there were a few unpleasant things. So, gentlemen of the catastra, first, to arrange everything in this area, to be a chakuum-pakum, so that every Peter Petrovic in Serbia knows what is his, and what is not, that what he bought can be called his name, and then he doesn't have to pay a small fortune to prove that it's his property or his father's, etc. That's the first thing. Another thing, it is impossible in this way to make an exception for one important state segment, excluding these employees in relation to employees in other institutions. Next question, you said a colleague a few things that aren't true. Those people who have more job experience have the right to increase earnings, among other things, by the past work, which this democratic government has reduced from 0.5 to 0.4 per year, and besides that everything else has been defined on the basis of the jobs that one is doing. So if someone is a reference officer and is unable to advance, there is no such ability, they will remain a life-long referencer and no one can guarantee that for years of working hours, their status will improve. Of course, the key question is whether it means that it should, for one reason, have a two-way policy towards employees, according to political parties who exercise power or otherwise provide their right. Obviously, this is all in principle -- you wanted to, look. It is impossible to ask for a lower and medium professional to be prepared equally in this way, because it was defined by the parliamentary majority who made the statement. That's what I recently told the stenographers at the County and Municipal Court in Cačka. So that's settled in the ballot box. Once again, I want to say, "Who's getting married in a hurry to repent?" It is impossible this way, when the problem comes to you alone, to intervene, and that in the election campaign, in your political programmes, in what your key political definitions are, you say quite the opposite things. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we expect you to be consistent, therefore, that what you have written in your political programme, when the real consequence comes when you exercise power, at least do not complain. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense what you're doing in the election campaign. Finally, as far as these services are concerned, if the state doesn't do something quickly in Serbia about this, no investment, no serious business in this area is possible, because today you need to spend a few months simply to prove that it's your cadastrian plot or that you inherited it, or that I don't know what else it is. It's just not durable anymore. So, ever since there's been a world and a century of geometry, that's what it used to be called, it's been coming to the village, it used to be shells, it's being dug up, it's being put up by theodolite, so it's being measured, and today there's a perfect electronic system to do it in the best possible way and, unfortunately, the time to get these papers has extended. It's inadmissible, and as far as I'm concerned, the catastra employees didn't deserve this salary either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4217	Replica, MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4218	Dear Mr Baralic, I will not defend whether the catastrian has any problems or no problems, but I must remind you that from where you and I come from, which is down West Morava, the basic state diameter was done in 1937, or it started in 1934 and ended in 1939. The late king took credit from Europe for this because he understood the importance of cataster arrangements for a country, so he felt he needed to modernise the state of Serbia. What I disagree with you and what is not true of your findings is that the adoption of the State measure Act is part of the geodetic business, as far as the field is concerned, handed over to private geodetic organizations, and no one argues. However, it is not true that geodetic bases and geodetic data are submitted and forwarded to private geodetic organisations for the simple reason that everywhere in the world, including in our country of Serbia, such data is state-owned and located only in the state body. I don't want to defend my profession or the Republic Geodetic Institute, but I have to tell you, according to the Mortgage Act, it's only three days. The reason why it's short is I think it's clear to all of you, because there are first, second and third-row mortgages, and the right to cross-reference and the championship of enrollment of these things. cargo in a catastrophe of immobility. I agree with you that there is an irregularity in the territory of the whole of the Republic of Serbia, something that would simply say with our sea language when we arrive at order and exercise our rights. It is precisely one of the reasons why I have submitted this amendment, because the geodetics in Serbia have never had more work to do, and they are never less adequately rewarded.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4219	National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4220	Just one sentence, I used the verb you handed over, and that means you unauthorizedly gave the competition to do this job. If I have to give you examples, I'll give you examples. So, a number of Geodesic administration employees who have now established independent firms in this area are completely unauthorized to use those data whose sole owner is the state of Serbia, and you well know how it works. And by service and by you, it's best that I don't elaborate further on this question. It's terrible what's going on here. It is known exactly how much an incognito service costs in this area. Please, no peasant in Serbia believes what you said. It's a disaster as long as you've brought people to the humiliation of bowing to you in front of the counters, which you've brought down to 80 centimeters, I suppose, to give yourself importance. It's impossible for the state to work like that. Whoever has a certain need to end up in a state institution like yours is supposed to do it with ease and it doesn't cost him much. You've made a science out of it, it's costing a little fortune.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4221	Replica, MP Dejan Perjaničić, Proposer of the amendment. I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4222	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - dignity. I must speak to you, Mr. Baralic, as someone who was the director of the cadastre in Trieste for the past three or four years. Without any praise, I would like to say that all those who applied for the service I had conducted, and I also know in the entire Rasin and Rasca district, were served and received all the information within three to five days, directly in the service of Triestenik, on the same day, without any reason to give bribes to anyone, to worship or court them. I think you've unwarrantedly offended an entire profession, which is hardworking and doing its job honestly. Geometrics aren't alienated from their own people. You and I come from a rural sea environment and someone who ran over so many sea lands, I have to tell you, since I've been doing this profession since 1991, I've never taken a white dinar and I don't know one of my colleagues who specifically charged special services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4223	Is anyone else answering this amendment? The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4224	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is true that the Civil Service Act has so many faults that amendments are impossible to fix such a bad law. But this amendment by Mr. Dejan Perjanic is for many reasons characteristic. First of all, it comes from a parliamentary group that makes up the ruling majority, so it's a little strange that they didn't first agree on what kind of bill to give. Maybe it's because the minister is not from a party from which the gentleman who submitted the amendment. On the other hand, the amendment is characteristic of a colleague acting as if he were not a national MP, but rather a representative of the Immobility Catastrophe Service. Of course, I wouldn't speak and I won't speak in general, nor can I say in general that there are problems in every real estate cadasar service, nor will I say that people who do these jobs are thieves or take money. Of course there are such and, of course, that we all know from the experiences of our own or someone in our environment about such cases, but in any case, this amendment is not acceptable because there is no reasonable reason for any group of officials, civil servants, to be singled out of the law and that its position, status, I don't know what it is, to regulate itself by some special law. I don't see why both tax officials and customs officers and all those who work in the catastro and all those whom a colleague has listed why they should be regulated by some other law. Then it just wouldn't make sense if we had a law on civil servants at all, then we'd have a law on catastra officers, customs officers, this, that. Of course, there is a law on the cataster of immovableity, there is a customs law, etc., but these laws regulate something else, and the intention of the law on civil servants was to regulate the position of civil servants in one unique way. That's why I don't think this amendment is in place, and that's why the MPs of the SRS won't vote for this amendment. I'd say something else when it comes to those private geodetic agencies that were talked about here. It is very interesting first when these agencies appeared, that is, when a legal opportunity was created for private agencies to do something that is, you are right, colleague Baralic, amazing anywhere in the world. These private agencies were formed at the time when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, which is so popularly called the Law on Legalisation. At that time, geodetic entanglements were to be hired to do these geodetic jobs very quickly, geodetic bases, to issue copies of the plot plan, because it was one of the conditions for legalising an object that was built without a building permit. Then what happened? I am quite convinced that even in the area where the applicant of the amendment comes from, because I am sure that it exists everywhere in Serbia, for many cases I know, then people who have worked as employees in the cataract of immovableness have quit or, if they had conditions for retirement, retired and opened those private agencies somewhere near the catastra. So they know the terrain, they have the data, they know the people, and they dictated the cost of shooting objects. Those prices are too high. Remember that famous November 19th, to which all those who had facilities without a building permit had to submit those legalization requirements. At that time, people had to pay ugly money for republican taxes, for municipal taxes, for geodetics, and all these demands stand in drawers in municipalities, cannot be solved, at least at the speed promised and expected by Serbian citizens. I'm going to tell you an example from the Zemun municipality, where it's impossible for the legalization work to be done at the rate at which the new leadership was prepared radically in the Zemun municipality, because the law provided that two people from the Belgrade administration should sit in the legalisation commission, in addition to the Zemun municipality's employees. Then a commission meeting is scheduled, and the items to be legalised are being prepared, i.e. to be considered, to determine whether objects can be legalised, and then five minutes before the meeting starts, these ladies from the city are told that they are very busy and that they cannot come to the meeting that very day. And so from day to day, from week to week, that the citizens of Zemun would be impressioned that the municipality of Zemun is the one that is slow to legalize, which is, of course, not true, but the problem, as I said, in those who come from the City Assembly. The truth is, too, that these private agencies have formed very high prices. And what's interesting is, if you want a recording of an object that needs to be legalized, then you can't call an official, or a state-run cadastre, stationary service. They don't have that option anymore, but you have to hire that private agency. What's going on? The private agency comes along, shoots the facility, makes a copy of the plot plan, stamps it, but that seal is not moderate, and that copy serves you nothing because you cannot attach it as valid evidence with a request for legalization of the facility. So that same copy of the plan where you paid for that privateer, he put his seal on, you have to wear it to the state cadastre, and then they seal it up that it is that copy of the plot plan, you have to pay it again, and you have to wait again, and that's something that's really inadmissible. If we were to talk about it, then I certainly wouldn't single out these civil servants under this law, but we should talk about the Law of Crossing and Catastrophe of immovableity, because that law has to endure a lot of changes would really be in the service of citizens. You of the ruling majority boast when someone goes on TV and says, "We've booked this whole community, we've enrolled 80% of this community, those municipalities." You didn't do anything. It remains 40% in Serbia of the immovableity is unrecorded. Says a colleague, three days from now, you get a book book when it comes to mortgages. That's what I believe, that you do it very quickly, that you put a mortgage on a man, and then who knows what's gonna happen? How many days it takes from the time you apply for legalization to legalization, how many years it takes, four, five, six years since the law exists, not even 10% of the objects are legalized. Why this amendment should also not be accepted. When I spoke in principle about this law, I spoke about civil servants, starting from Boris Tadic to Dragan Gilas and his wife, one is the minister, the other is the deputy minister, about nepotism in the current ruling coalition, and then Mr Milan Markovic, the ministers who represent this law here, said that you don't know anything about it, that it's none of your business. I understand it's none of your business to the wife of Dragan Gilas, but do you care about Milos Bulgaria? Yesterday I read that Milos Bulgarin is your close relative and that you proposed him as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Now I'd like a few sentences, really fit this amendment, and it's about the cadastre and the land books, about Milos Bulgaria. This Milos Bulgaria is a man who was the head of the agricultural company "July 7th" from Surcin. Then Milos Bulgarin, as close friend of Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of the product, your cousin, established close contacts with then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and then met with Dragoljub Markovic daily, that is, every evening, and then Milos Bulgarin for the bagatel.... (President: Mrs. Radeta, what does that have to do with the geometry? Please explain. Mr. Albianich, I once tried to teach you, let's try again. So, when I explain the amendment, I explain this amendment to convince my colleagues not to vote for it. My argument, which takes 15 minutes on the Rules of Procedure, can be 15 minutes of silence for this payphone. Maybe that's how I want to convince my colleagues not to vote for the amendment. This time I want to convince them not to vote for the amendment because I want to explain the character and the work of Milos Bulgaria. Do you mind? So, this Mr. Milos Bulgarin sold "Small Product" to Dragoljub Marovic, the "July 7th" facilities from Surcin. It polluted the environment, polluted the lower Surcinsko polje, the entire complex of the lower Surcinsko polje, owned by the PKK, is today owned by Dragoljub Markovic and the "Bird Product". They forced people, privates, who, in the process of returning the country, got some parcels that happened to be in the PKB complex, sent these people home at night to some people who threatened them, and those people had to sell their parcels to "Bird Product", democratic emissaries, Mr. Todorovic, sent them with baseball bats, and those people from Surcin and the surrounding area had to sell those parcels of "Bird Product", to bring it together, and now the whole lower Surcin field is owned by "Bird Product". Of course, I wouldn't mind if it were regular, if the July 7th pitches were in competition, if everyone was interested in competing. But no, it was a sale by Dragoljub Markovic; 166 hectares were bought by the chairman of the Municipal Committee of DS in Surcin, the one who bought, or usurped the House of Culture, and the Diogene building because he owned the KUD "Diogen", which he wrote to himself, so the book, I personally ran the procedure, was deleted. Unfortunately, it has been re-enlisted, all of these are the consequences of democracy. Maybe the citizens of Serbia didn't even know how democracy got into the real estate catastrophe. You can't imagine the kind of criminal activity that all crime is being done in the context of a real estate catastra. So I advise you, Mr. Markovic, to withdraw that proposal of yours, in agreement with Boris Tadic, so it says yesterday "Justice", I believe that you withdraw your proposal to make Milos Bulgarin president of the Chamber of Commerce, because he really doesn't have any other reference except that he destroyed the PKK, that he left the PKK "July 7th", that he left people without a job, that what people left to do had been moved to some barracks in Jacob, because he gave the "Wrong Product" to those beautiful buildings built by workers on July 7th. Of course, I recommend to my fellow Members of Parliament that this amendment not be accepted, because if any group of officials is singled out from such a bad law, then it will be not bad, but catastrophic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4225	Minister Milan Markovic has the word and then Vladan Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd only talk about the amendment, but Mrs. Radeta was talking about a man who wasn't here and has no chance of defending himself, so she put him in one context and family relationship with me, etc. First of all, Mr. Milos Bulgaria is no relation to me, but he's a man I respect very much, and I love him very much as if he's my cousin, and I really think about him for the best. Believe me, a more capable and honest man in this public duty for the past seven years, I can't say there aren't any more, but he's one of the best, most capable and honest people I've ever met. I don't know why you brought this amount of charges against a man who can't defend himself because he's not here. I'll tell you a few things I know. So Milos Bulgaria is not my cousin first, and that's how much he says about the newspapers you quoted, I've known him for seven years. This Markovic "Blood Product" is also not my cousin, he's a man I don't even know. Milos Bulgaria is the director of Serbia's most successful agro- company, the company's director, who in 2000 found a loss of 101.4m euros, then 202.8m marks. Today, the PKK has been the European champion of milk production for two years. So, there is no more successful company in the European Union and in the territory of Europe, so one Serbian company is a champion, it is a company run by Milos Bulgaria. Milos Bulgaria won last year's award for the most successful businessman in the Republic of Serbia. Milos Bulgaria is not a member of any political party. Milos Bulgaria really, honestly I am telling you, therefore, I know everything, these are the things that I can stand behind, Milos Bulgaria was the director of the PKK and from 2000 to 2004, and when the government changed, it also remained the director of the PKK. And no one in their right mind thinks that a man who's successful and who's done something out of that company to put him away. PKK workers have the highest average salary in agribusiness in Serbia. So there's not a single agri-enterprise where workers have higher salaries than it is in the PKK. The PKK with regard to technical equipment is at the very top of Europe, the most modern, state-of-the-art machines that exist in agrobusiness, are also in the PKK. The PKK is a company visited last year and before last year by ministers in charge of all the cantons in Switzerland, so that they can see that in one Serbia, weak and poor, one can even produce milk and other products such as the PKK. So, the PKK is a brand that we can boast about everywhere in Europe and in the world, and it's simply not responsible for this pay phone to come out and talk about a company in that way and talk about a man who, above all, is responsible for what the PKK is today. As far as I'm going to run, I don't have any chance of running anywhere, and you know it very well, and the journalists in the Justice List know it. Yesterday, I got a call from a reporter from Justice and she asked me about this article, because she came to the Ministry by chance, and I told her what I told you, and it's all to check. The PKK has about 21,000 hectares of surface area, if I'm not mistaken, all to check, that surface exists today. All the other stories that are so casually thrown out, I don't know a man who has done anything in any way in Serbia, done something good without being from your party's ranks from this pay phone dragged through the mud. It turns out that nothing is wrong in this Serbia and no one is good, no citizens, no one, no businessmen, except those who are members of the SRS. It's just that, by some logic, things aren't right. I don't know how you never have a nice word to say to anyone, because all thieves, bandits, like this and a simple man to want you to call him that and put themselves in line for those who in real life are really successful, honest, and real people who need to help us. So, in the end, who's going to be president of that Chamber of Commerce, I don't know, it's going to be decided by the Chamber of Commerce in accordance with their rules that exist. Personally, I think Milos Bulgarin could be anything in this country, from the minister, to the director of the PKK, I respect him so much, and I know so well about him that I claim this extremely responsibly. If I had a company I live with, from whom my family lives, and if you asked me who I would bring to run this company, and if it were up to me and my family's existence, I would tell you, bring Milos Bulgarin, let my existence depend on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4227	Slowly, we now have two Rules of Procedure, then one replica, and only Mr. Vukevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragoljub Anastasovski, then MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4228	I report to the 104th member of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Not because of Milan, Milan is OK, but I answered, because I am very moved by this love of our minister towards a successful businessman, for whom no one has a nice word, not in the PKK, not in Padinska Skela, but in the whole of Palilula. Mr. Minister, you and that successful businessman started building a hall of sports in Padinska Skela and it seems to me that you've built a cornerstone there, and on that, it's finished, there's no more money, there's no hall of sports. Mr. Bulgarian, it's really nice that you love him and there are no objections, but the PKK workers can't survive that good job he's running, they're nonstop breaking up work, they're simply blackmailing because they won't do anything for those workers. You yourself know how the PKK works. A group of people who blindly obey Mr. Bulgarian's orders are gathered, so there's no story of his success, maybe on paper he can be anything, but he's not as successful as you would have presented him and I wouldn't have given him two painted chickens to keep me safe, because one of them would have been guaranteed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4229	The word has Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4230	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm reporting for a member of the Rules of Procedure who's talking about anyone who's behind this speaker should, and that's not exactly a practice for us to talk about the agenda point. I guess that goes for Mr. Secretary, too. By the way, personally, I don't think this intervention was necessary for him and that we would, of course, abuse her as evil opposition MPs, because it's not the turn to explain Mr Milos Bulgarin's candidacy for this speaker. I will not speak of him in the sense in which the members of the SRS spoke, let each prove the quality of their personality and their results, although different stories appear here. But there's something else I'd like to tell you, namely, it's not good to mix politics in the business of the Chamber of Commerce in the way that it's obvious in selecting a new president of the Chamber of Commerce case. The Chamber of Commerce needs to be reformed, we need a new law on chambers of commerce and chambers to go to market, gentlemen. The Chamber of Commerce should be in function of the economy, its development, the creation of a general environment and simply providing services to the economy. Today the Chamber of Commerce is still a little bit on the state's manger, still in function of politics, and that's not good. You, Mr. Minister, know that there are certain procedures as to how the president of the Chamber of Commerce is running and is not the only candidate, Mr. Milos Bulgaria, but I think Mr. Toplica Spasojevic, Mr. Dragan Lukac, from Novi Sad. I'm saying all this because I'm a member of the Regional Chamber of Commerce Management Board in Novi Sad, which is best for the results in Serbia, and I just want to defend the right of the Chamber of Commerce to choose its own man. In my opinion, it would be best if it were a man from the chamber, for the simple reason that the influence of lobbyist groups should be excluded, because the privatisation process has not been completed, there are 1,200 other companies left, and you know that everyone is getting involved in this process. Therefore, one application to both the public and those who listen, and also to you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, let us give up such interference in selecting the president of the Chamber of Commerce, to avoid such interference in the economy where politics should decide on many things, especially in the privatisation process, rather than let them be economically efficient processes, and the choice of the President of the Chamber of Commerce alone to leave it to the businessmen. After all, another danger has been announced, that no matter who is elected president of the Chamber of Commerce now, in September and October there will be elections where the tycoons may send their representatives to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and then that institution, I think we will need the Serbian state and the Serbian economy, in fact, to function in some negative processes, especially when it comes to privatisation and the economic efficiency of the Serbian economy. Therefore, Mr. Minister, your criticism, don't engage in this kind of controversy with the MPs, it's not good for either of us or for the general impression of this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4231	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4232	Mr. Milan Markovic, two days ago I reminded you that you are no longer a National MP, but a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I also reminded you of something that you know, that a MP can speak in a different way, make political views, bring out knowledge, and you as a minister can speak exclusively of the law, and today you can talk about amendments. Please stick to it. This story of yours that you don't know Dragoljub Markovic just shocked me like that, because you were also a close associate of Zoran Djindjic and I'm surprised you don't remember who was carrying the coffin, I'm surprised you don't remember who the best man was, Zoran Djindjic, the whole of Serbia knows. Also, the story that Milos Bulgarin is not a member of the Democratic Party has reminded me much of the story that they are neither Baby Popovic, nor Nemanja Kolesar, nor Zoran Janjusevic, all of which were also not members of the Democratic Party, but they were chiefs of cabinets, advisers and, of course, criminals, this has also been tried. Mr. Milan Markovic, I didn't talk here about Milos Bulgarin and Vojica Janosevic, as some of the interesting characters of people. I was talking about the PKK, "July 7th" about how Milos Bulgarin destroyed "July 7th" from Surcin and how he sold all the land and facilities without competition, perhaps freely, to Dragoljub Markovic. I was talking about Vojica Janosevic, who is the president of the municipality, who also participated in these transge-frange businesses for the purchase of the land. You fascinated me, Mr. Markovic, with your knowledge of the functioning of a company headed by Milos Bulgarian. Since you are so smart and have so much information, I expect and please the most beautiful, here are the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party all such data is of interest to the Dragon, to the Last, to the Robing Houses of Belgrade, to the IMT, so since you know all the data, I do not believe that you have been specifically preparing today to talk about Milos Bulgarianin because yesterday it was announced that your cousin and that Boris Tadic and you proposed it to the President of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm guessing you've got that business record from before, and yet I still don't think you know how the company that Milos Bulgaria's headed is. So, please, do it, come out and give us all the same data on the number of employees, on salaries, on income. Searched for Lasta, Robing Houses, Dragon and IMT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4233	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I assume that you are not an uninformed man and that you have had opportunities so far, you have been relatively long in politics, to make sure of one thing; there is absolutely nothing that the Serbian Radical Party has brought out in public without showing itself as correct. Whether it was in a month, a year, five years or ten years, but it turned out that all of what we were saying was based on facts that were confirmed after a certain time. I know that now it's not appropriate for you to remember certain things, to remember events and personalities from a closer and further past that binds you directly to crime. I know you'd be very happy to avoid it, if I knew that you tried to get those most exposed to remove from the party, some of you'd even shut down, but there's something left that you'd never be able to do. Although, you're trying to do it the way you're not directly involved in it. The link to crime and the mafia goes directly to Zoran Djindjic. Normally, you can't do it directly, but you're trying to do it indirectly, so that individuals are slowly going public now with things that happened before October 5th since 1994. Mr. Markovic, let me remind you of all the discussions regarding Dragoljub Micunovic's shift and everything you said about Zoran Djindjic at the time, including Boris Tadic. The way he came to power, the connection with the Socialist Party of Serbia, and these are things that are now completely clear and familiar to everyone. With the fact that, normally, for years, Zoran Djindjic has been developing all these connections, so that in October 5th, 2000, with the help of the mafia, he will come to power. His reputation with the Surin clan is so evident, so clear. You can do whatever you want, but these are indisputable facts now. Did we lie when we called you Schiller? You see now in the newspaper, says Dusan Spasojevic's special parties, at the pool, with a certain art program, which is, that we understand the human and human weakness that is used, etc. That's the facts. Let me remind you, Mr. Markovic, it wasn't that long ago, a year and a half ago, there was a change and an abduction, an illegal abduction of power in the Surcin municipality. The Democratic Party played the biggest part in this. These are undeniable facts, because the Serbian Radical Party, which had the majority and which held power in the municipality of Surcin, at no cost wanted to mutilate the robbery of social property, i.e. the country that was committed with the help of Mr. Bulgarian. Personally, I called then the chairman of the Democratic Party's Municipal Committee, Vojica Janosevic, that he bought over 100 ha from the PKK, since "July 7th" and he denied me in the paper and said it wasn't true, it's not 100, it's 160. Not only him, but many of your ranks, have bought land that is related to Belgrade Airport, for highway, land by the highway, because it is assumed that this land will be intended for an economic zone, for construction and that normally at a much higher price, but which is bought, it will be sold. The basic reason why you bribed some of the councilmen was to reach the authorities, to cover up old crime, and to allow a new one, i.e. to declare this land a business zone, so that yours from the Democratic Party could earn money. You say you don't know Mr. Markovic. I'm surprised you don't know Mr. Markovic when he's one of the first people in 2001 who got a loan of two million marks. I don't think it's because the best man is Zoran Djindjic, probably because he was a good businessman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4235	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Vladan Vukicevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia MP Mr. Dejan Perjanicic, in his best interest and in his desire to help the officials who work in the building block, has submitted this amendment. Of course, the right of all parliamentary groups, as well as all MPs, is whether they want, will, believe whether or not this amendment should be supported. As for the new Serbia, it advocates that all civil servants increase their personal incomes and, what is the desire of all of us here, to increase living standards in the end, so that all citizens live better, better quality and have higher personal incomes. But aware, MP NS Mr. Perjanic, that with his amendment he cannot do so to all state officials, he wants to help people in the middle where he was recently a worker. His desire absolutely understands and understands, and she's in place and she's fine. But what's wrong? It is not right for the comments of some MPs, who want to somehow transfer to us here, in this government, the ride that was found. If we know and if we hear from opposition MPs that at this point 40% of all construction facilities are not registered, we wonder in 2000 there was much more to it, what you people were doing until 2000. What were you all doing until 2000 in power? Why didn't you register those facilities? Why don't we inherit the registered facilities, so these built objects since 2000 if we hadn't enrolled, we'd have a lot of moral right to transfer it to us. You want your guilt and your ride, your unhappiness until 2000 to put on some other people's backs. I don't think one such policy can pass in Serbia. The Serbian people are aware of the facts until 2000, as they have been aware of since 2000. Anything that hasn't worked since 2000 will certainly be transferred to us, not transferred to you, not transferred to the opposition. Also, what I don't understand is that MPs here are criticizing because there is a private and social sector. This company is headed for the private sector. Please, there needs to be a private and social sector, and it comes out in the end of the line, and the market will say whether private agencies will shut down or survive. This, the price of a private agency, cannot be determined by any law or by any MP. That regulates the market. If private agencies are expensive, unquality as you say, they'll have to close. But I wouldn't say that's exactly the way it is. One very offensive note, one for me very serious man, I will not mention the name of the MP, because he will recognize himself - that we made some low counters, that someone would worship. I'm not so sure that over the past three years, we've been fighting to build low counters and build counters. We inherited those counters. You forced the people of Serbia to worship you. You enslaved him, you chit-chatted him and bullied him. (Alexander Vukic, an incursor from the scene: "Cortained"? Yes, with your attitudes, your manner of conduct. And we inherited your counters, because now the new time is coming, Serbia is going forward, so I guess Serbia is going to raise those counters. It elevates them by opening up private agencies, opening up new jobs, so citizens can choose, whether they'll be there on those low-inherited counters you left us or, of course, here you have private agencies. So I don't think it's correct that your way of communication and desire -- that what you've destroyed and ruined in some previous period -- is now being rewritten by some other people, and thinking that what you've been ruining for 45 years and more, someone can fix it in three years. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the council, I don't think that movie passes anymore with Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4237	MPs, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4238	MPs, yes, but they behave worse than the council.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4239	Don't react like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4240	The movie no longer passes in Serbia. I think the time has come for sobriety, thinking and for Serbian citizens to know clearly what has been done since 2000, whether there is progress and improvement, whether we have done something. At the very end of the line, that's what the elections say. I don't want anyone here in particular and names to criticise, but I think that simple discussions should be more appropriate and that the wish of an MP's group, i.e. One MP who made one amendment in front of New Serbia, should not now be transferring everything that was bad in the previous period, throwing it into the basket and throwing it to the ruling coalition now, as if we had inherited honey and milk. Well, if you say we inherited honey and milk, then explain it to the citizens of Serbia -- why they had their own incomes of 20 marks, 30 marks... Time, Mr. Vukevic. )......................................................................................................... When it flowed, now I'm done, when was that prosperity during your reign? I think the situation is changing. I'm sure not at the pace and speed that Serbian citizens expect, I'm sure the citizens of Serbia want to get to higher personal incomes, better living standards, to live better, but here's the government that will certainly do, as it did, at that improvement. I hope it gets better from year to year, and I hope we have a better standard of living, of course. Once again, I say that the citizens of Serbia know exactly what they're doing. But what's incorrect and what's certainly not going to work out for you, so that all of what you've ruined and done is badly transferred to the back of some other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4241	We have more reactions. There is a word from MP Aleksandar Vukic, deputy president of the SRS group, then has the word of MP Rajko Baralic and has more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just came out to say a few sentences about this worship my predecessor spoke of and about what was who, whom he left behind. The previous government is also your authority, but the government is without the Democratic Party. I'd like to point out a few things to you, Mr. Vukevic. You've been acting like the rest of the DOS, like Tito, like Heyle Selassia -- I've sat down since that moment since I took over, and that power will last forever, so before me, it's those who were until 2000. No, there was another government before you, before she was another government. You're both ex-girlfriends and ex-exes, but you forget it. Maybe 20 years from now you'll be back. That's how it works in normal and civilized countries. But you're always sharing this country, all of you from DOS, in the scariest and worst possible way. You're telling us that there are some who were like the Moors about, like, black servants in a Roman era or I don't know what period, in the time of Venice the old, the Milky Way, when they served with them. They're the worst, they were at that time, and then some of the nicest ones came, who fix it all the time. No, it wasn't ideal. It couldn't have been ideal. No one has ever said that, nor has there been an ideal government. We're just talking about what's so much worse today. Look at the pictures today or last night on some information shows, when you're talking about bowing. If I understand correctly, Michael Polt, the US ambassador, is pushing for an independent Kosovo. If I understood correctly? Yeah. I understand very well, Mr. Minister. I don't think I'm much of a mind, but I'm not even such an idiot that I can't understand, thank you for that, Mr. Minister, what Mr. Polt says every day. Thank you for not being such an idiot. But you're very big sluts and half-trons, and you don't like your people very much when you can afford to represent your people, your country to Serbia, and to go and line you up by the one who stands for you to take away the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. He lined you up over there. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the pride of life he could never line up, yesterday Polt lined up in his name, all along with Ponche. Anthem nice, and they're all standing still, lined up, and I almost said something that wouldn't fit, but all lined up to honor an independent Kosovo. The man is in a daily campaign for an independent Kosovo. The President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, did not even favour us as citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4243	Mr. Vukicu, it was the day of independence of the United States, not Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4244	Sometimes, Mr. Albianic, it's smarter to keep your mouth shut. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these people every day not only ask and advocate it, but all they do is find a solution to how to take our land, how to destroy our country. Our president and our prime minister have not granted us that kind of respect to at least say, that day we have more important obligations, to visit refugees, to visit our people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, where we can do so, even if in Kosovo Mitrovica, to go to Gracanica, Caglavica, Šilovo, Ranilug, Gorazdevac, Orahovac, anywhere. They didn't do any of that. They showed, you take away Kosovo and Metohija from us, and we'll stand still and we'll be even better lined up to stand. That was our country's message. It's an unserious and irresponsible message. No one thinks, and since I know your answer, you want to fight. No, I don't. We can't fight a war. No one can do that. The greatest force of the world, what will you do. We need to do something else, to show basic respect for our country, to show that we have a state, to show that Serbia exists, because the way you do, you show that Serbia is nowhere in any single inch of our territory, nowhere in any single place in our country. These are not 80 tents, but three and five centimetres, through which you worship, not you, but through which the free-loving people worship. In the end, Michael Polt was right about one thing, said Michael Polt -- I want the Serbian people to continue fighting for freedom. With the greatest enthusiasm of all, I received these words from Mr. Supreme Occupier, and I must say that I will fight for freedom, as an individual, as a citizen, along with my children, I am sure that their children will not need to continue, I will continue to fight for the freedom of my country, for freedom and from those like Michael Polt and his bosses, and from his servants who were lined up yesterday. Only then will Serbia be free when all of them are released in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4245	Four more calls to the Rules of Procedure. Take it easy, Mr. Vukevic. First, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4246	Thank you. I thank a colleague who said I was a serious man. Yeah, I've been trying my whole life to be that. Thank you very much. Mr. Vucciku, was this supposed to be this first, second, palaceization or the equation of consonants by soundness in this concept-- to line up. I didn't hear very well, and then you'll explain it to me. Thank you. We didn't, Mr. Vukevic, hand over the counters to you. We have handed you 10,000 companies, which you are like, incompetent owners, you are unable to sell for seven years, so Minister Dinkic proposes to extend the privatisation deadline. So if you were to start painting it, it would take you 100 years from now. So you're incapable of selling the substance of a country in seven years. That's what you inherited. Before the war, there was nothing, and then the Germans came and they took it all, and so every day you're squirming one company at a time. The governor tells you, the living have been seen, you will sell sacred cows, EPS, NIS etc. As soon as you run out of money. This model that you apply despises every farmer in Serbia, because nobody in their right mind sells cows to buy shoes and no one in their right mind sells fields to go on vacations, but sells their property to multiply and make it possible for their families to live better. So, since nothing went wrong in 2001, then you come to power, you roll up your sleeves, you hire teams, experts, all those you have, and you change Serbia. It's seven years of baby time for someone to go to elementary school. In that period it is possible to fix any feller that someone has made. You mention here the PKK, to erect a monument at the Terraces to Mr Veljovic, who made one swamp the most profitable company in Europe, which exported food to Europe in 1970, 500 million marks annually. It's the man who was responsible to say whether it's possible to build a Gerdap 2 in a legal, normal and economically cost-effective way. Those were the directors you were talking about today with contempt. I don't know Mr. Bulgarian, I don't know anything about him, I just want to say to him, like others, that they inherited a company that built more than 50 systems in the world like the PKK. It was such a socialist, bad state, which ruined everything, which allowed them to school, to heal and live decent people, and to build several dozen new factories, hydrocenters, theaters, to have five universities each year. That's what you inherited, and what you're doing today is unique for Serbia. What you are doing today is demeaning Serbia. What you're doing with the American ambassador is lower than what I expected you to do. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4247	Mr. Djuric, have you heard from the Rules of Procedure? National MP Rajko Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4248	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226 and Article 198 and, of course, regarding the amendment. I mean, and the pity that Mr. Dulic is not there, I don't know if he's justified, officially absent or simply used a break, that we are not often able to fully discuss politics in our country, about a policy that, forgive me, I don't document, make up three key areas, which is the issue of institutions, norms and values, political processes and conflicts in our country and, finally, it's an extremely important issue, a question that we haven't even come to today, a matter of political content, starting from economic policy to social policy, external, internal, cultural, etc. As we see from the media, these problems appear daily, and we as MPs, unfortunately, are barely able to discuss these existential, essential issues. I admit, I was also in a dilemma, as Mrs. Radeta said, to come and feel a few minutes, because it might be more eloquent than saying. Since Mr. Gavrilovic already took that opportunity once, then it would no longer be original in our country either. Of course, in no way do I want to blame Mr. Markovic, he is a young man, so yesterday he became the minister of an extremely important institution, which is the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. Sociologists say it's the spine of the state. Modern sociologists say, forgive the expression, in the desire to be a little funny, it's a state harem, it's all there. I will consider the minister extremely responsible if he fails in the future to reform the ministry, because this is what Western Europe is paying great attention to today. Without it, there is no democracy in any country, starting with what we heard, from the counter. Shalters are being resolved in normal states within five minutes. It's just, you get a number, there's no counter. I've lived in Berlin for 15 years, and if you go to the post office, that clerk in the post office can't sit down during work hours. She's at the service of the citizens. Unfortunately, in all the authorities, we still have to bend like this, because the distance is only five centimeters and, of course, that's the first thing where the citizen's spine bends. One more question, Mr. Minister. You know that in our country one-third are national minorities. Unfortunately, I would like to know whether representatives of national minorities, too, because this is very important, given that our country has ratified the Charter of the European Council, will finally have opportunities, and representatives of national minorities, to have at least a place as a porter, if not an official. Finally, forgive me, Mr. Chairman, in the most polite manner I have asked to resolve the question of the room, because I am one of the few who is not presently an MP of the room. Unfortunately. Today he was Mr. Deputy Secretary, convinced himself of the place under which I work. The solution offered has been rejected. Therefore, it is not like my age, nor my education, to make scandals and most kindly beg you, try to find an opportunity, so that you do not force me to defend my human and parliamentary rights in one scandalous way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4249	Mr. Djuric, we will forward your question to Secretary Tamara Stojcevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Miss Milena Stankovic, then the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, no one from New Serbia, and especially you, Mr. Vucicevic, has the moral right to call the SRS and to criticise their policy, when you, Mr. Vucicevic, have just watched you, because I am Kragujevčana and it was important for me to see your reaction, two months ago supported the SRS candidate for president of this House. So they were good to you at the time, and then their policy didn't bother you, and now all of a sudden, it's such a turn. Mr. Vucicevic, it's called double-standard policy. I think the only criterion you had at the time, you and your party, when you decided on who you'd support and who you didn't, was who you could steal from. That's when you estimated you'd be able to do it together with the SRS, and then something happened, so you changed your attitude. You have no moral right to criticize them, but look at yourself first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4251	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4252	Mr. Albianic, you broke the Rules of Procedure. You gave the lady your word before me, and I answered before her. That's the first one. Second, she didn't say on what basis she answered, which member she was talking to. Nothing was caused by some of her insinuations. I guess he thinks all thieves are like Ceda Jovanovic, to arrest everyone in Serbia like Cedu Jovanovic these days. No, Miss Stankovic, Serbian radicals are not. We're not afraid of anyone, no one is chasing us, you're hiding yourself, you and your officials, but it's got nothing to do with the SRS, it's between you and those who are with you, not stealing, but stealing, and then they'll come in line. They will welcome, thank God, Serbia with honorable and fair authority, and then you will all go where you belong. (President: I ask that we address the MPs as colleagues with respect. Mr. Albian, please don't ever interrupt me again until I'm finished, and you have no business grounds to interrupt me. What are you trying to do with that kind of behavior, Mr. Albianic? You've really gone too far with your behavior and learn more to lead, for example, this parliament, how many months you've been in that position, more you than Oliver Dulic, since he's mostly got a lot of work to do. He's probably going to line up. You see what they look like, what Mr. Vukic was talking about earlier, about the Serbian authorities, how they're lined up in front of Michael Polt, see how the "Justice" reporters painted them well and how this is a sad picture of Serbia. That's why you're frowning a little while ago when I mention something that was written in the "Justice" daily. I reported that I was replicating, under Article 101, Mr. Vucicevic, who said that some MPs, he thought primarily of the possibility of a discussion, it was obvious that they had something against private agencies, that citizens had the right to choose between a private agency and a state cadastre. Mr. Vucicevic, you didn't understand me very well. We in the SRS have nothing against private agencies, nothing against private companies - on the contrary. We are the party that in its programme drew the privatisation before all of you who in the meantime sold out Serbia, but I was talking about that citizens have no choice between a private agency and a state cadastre, because according to the law, the state cadastre cannot record objects. You obviously didn't understand. I was also talking about Milos Bulgarin, the PKB, the business Mr. Minister knows very well, but I just don't know how you left out that contract from that rich biography, where Milos Bulgarin in the holes in Surcin, that's where the FK, where the stadium, and there were working tables "July 7th", and then Bulgaria sold it to Chumet, and then the workers still used it as a mess, and Bulgaria paid rent, i.e. PKB workers 700 marks a month. How did you forget that, and you know so much information, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4253	Did the MPs, meanwhile, give up reporting to the Rules of Procedure? We could go to work on the amendments. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment proposing that members of 1-3. The bill is deleted. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4254	I am reporting under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. In that article, I think it is a position 2, the MP is obliged to respect his address to his colleagues here in parliament. Mr. Vukevic of New Serbia committed a brutal violation. For me, it is much worse and much more difficult when an MP speaks to us as retarded persons, worse than having directly offended us by even calling us by name. In fact, he's talking about how they're fighting what's left of their legacy from an earlier regime. Of course, that's where they always crush us with socialists and some other parties. But they've been fighting for seven years and nothing. Why don't they give up already? What kind of fight are they talking about? They say they're the ones who are raising Serbia from the ashes, and they've just destroyed it. I'll explain exactly what they're doing. The most concrete thing dealing with New Serbia is the Ministry of Transport. It's Mr. Velimir Ilic's day-to-day. What happens in the main segment of this traffic, the railways, the blood flow of our Serbia, one of the strategic elements that we have enough to express ourselves freely, and even a little bit to blackmail Europe. You all know about those locomotives that came in, I don't want to talk about them, which are used. I'll talk about those who bought new ones. Some 30 locomotives, type 444, arrived in Končar, Croatia. It takes 20 more by the end of the year to be delivered. What about these 30? Every second or third day at least two come for a remont. The worst quality locomotives were purchased, and we had solid offers from Romania and some other countries. Of course, that gave up. That should include the famous UBPOK, that he evaluates, assesses, proves or doesn't prove who took bribes for these absolutely unquality machines. Your Minister Velimir Ilic boasted there were no strikes on the railway. In May alone, there were two strikes. These were short strikes, so the press, which you also control, could have avoided. One of them was, I think, May 3, and the other one was later. Those were warning strikes. It took an hour, all the railways in Serbia stopped. The minister boasts there were no strikes. He just kept them quiet, and until today there were six of them, they were all warning strikes. What did you do? You gave these poor workers an increase in salary of 4%, so with that increase they no longer have the right to stimulate, so they get about 800 to 1200 dinars less than they used to get. The average rail salary doesn't exceed 17 thousand dinars, and when these poor people, those highly qualified masters, the machinesmiths, speak of wages, with all due respect to the engineers. They do a very important job, they get 27 thousand dinars of pay, and with night work they can get over 30 grand. These are people who answer for lives, who drive passengers, hundreds of passengers, and they have these huge salaries of about 30,000 dinars. That's the condition you brought Serbia to. (President: Time has passed long ago. You will allow me a few moments, for we too often see right through your fingers. Non-stop. Thank God, we have nerves for that sort of thing. Thirteen engineers employed in the Serbian Railways have recently signed a paper that has the strength of the appeal. Namely, they are appealing to their leadership to finally do something about the brake systems of our compositions. From a locomotive to a wagon, no carriage system meets Serbia's standards, let alone some far more important or restrictive European standards. It's a state of rail today: 17,000 dinars, head-in-the-bag passengers, that's Serbia, and that's the better future you're leading us into.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4255	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4256	Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that because of a bit of a heated discussion, which touched a lot of topics, you've overlooked letting me make a statement about the amendment that was very important, and if you'll excuse me in just a few seconds, I would explain it. A very important amendment is quite important, Mr. Perjanic's commitment is quite important, but the arguments made by Mr. Baralic and Mrs. Radeta are also important. I'd just like to say why this amendment really can't be accepted, so it doesn't stay unarranged, and it doesn't turn out that someone here is standing up for a better job at the Geodetic Institute, and someone doesn't think I need it for any reason. First, what is necessary, and I told Mr. Perjaničić on the Committee this morning at 9.30 a.m., so the Geodetic Service is a special organization and as a special organization it is an authority of the state administration just as it is an organ within the Ministry, just as it is the Ministry itself. In Article 84. The State Administration Act is prescribed that public officials carry out tasks in the authorities of the administration. The Law on civil servants regulated the position and status of people working in the authorities of the state administration. Therefore, we cannot say that one of the authorities of the state administration, because they are doing a de facto one serious job, we are pulling out of the entire system and we are going to prepare for them some different law that will apply to their salaries. For two reasons, the first thing that the Civil Service Act systemically resolves the issue of civil servants and there is no real basis why this particular office would be singled out, because on the same basis, someone else here who represents the Hydrometeorological Office, who represents another, third office, has 24, and who could ask at least those officials, because of the weight of their work, to be separated from the system of civil servants, so it is completely unfair to single out only the Geodetic Institute. The fact is they're doing a responsible job, but it's not the special powers that police officers, customs officers and security-information agencies have. On the other hand, your commitment to improving their position is fully justified, which is something we talked about here in the National Assembly when it comes to the Law on the National Assembly in the last term, and that's what the government is talking about. It's a matter of law that regulates wages. When it comes to the agenda of the bill, which regulates salaries, and I think that the Legislative Secretariat is preparing certain amendments to that law, and then we really need to talk about how it's possible that someone with medium professional training, whether he was doing the job of a tenant or an officer in an executive post, has 16 or 20 thousand salaries, because it's just hard to understand that disproportion in salaries, so from 16 thousand to 100 thousand, how they're now paying. But it's not the subject of this law. Your commitment is completely justified and understandable, but it is not possible to change this system in order to meet that expectation, but rather to do so through another law, which is the law on salaries in state authorities and when it comes to pay law, I expect us to work together as much as possible on this matter. So much for that amendment. I'm going to take the chance on this amendment now. This amendment, which is now on the agenda, refers to deleting members. It's a consequence of the fact that this law should not be passed. The government believes the law should be adopted, which is why it has been sent to the procedure and therefore we cannot accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4257	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'll quote it, so please don't count it on me in time. "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP." I wanted to point my question to the President of the Assembly, my colleague Dulic. However, he has been professionally involved in politics for the past few years, and amateurally or otherwise in health care, so maybe it's a hobby business, and he may not be referred to the right address, and he's not here at the moment president of the Health Committee. I would like to ask the question why the Health Committee is silent about the unmitigated events of which we are witnessing in our health profession, where we have a situation that has come to light. For what? Because we have the deaths of our patients and not people who are sick or critically ill, where their health is threatened and where such an outcome is possible, but we have relatively healthy people who undergo relatively safe surgical interventions, suffer and pay with their heads. If the Health Committee cannot find the strength to discuss this, then the president of the Assembly must intervene and this debate should be launched. For what? Because of these deaths, it can be seen in the press and in the media, it comes from the systemic failures we have in health care. You will often say - well, Serbian radicals, they just come out to criticize, they have nothing to say. Here I have in mind the publication of the state of human security in Serbia, the 2005 and 2006 report. Do you know who the signer is? Open Society Fund. We don't have any nice words about the Open Society Fund and we know what it's for. See what chapter 1, which is dedicated to health care. It is said that I will briefly convince that the two greatest fears today are with the citizens of Serbia, from poverty and from health. It is said that system-based legislation, which regulates this area, is directly responsible for the insecurity of citizens and for safety. I'm not going to quote in full, but just to see what it says: "The health service in Serbia currently looks like a house without foundation. At first glance, it's getting nicer and better, but the system is full of inadequacy, unstable and unsustainable." It goes on to say: "That is why the entire system, despite the above improvements, seems insolent and unsustainable, and users of services with full rights feel neglected and insecure. "Please, these deaths, if they are no reason for the Committee to discuss, then I don't know what they are. We, Serbian radicals, have criticised what has happened to appoint a person from the G17 Plus Party, where the Minister of Health is from. We now fully understand why this was done, in order to keep these vital health professions quiet, so that only the laurels would be allowed through the work of the Committee. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia I warn you, the situation in health care is serious, and the competent people, unfortunately, do not take what is necessary to protect the safety of Serbia's citizens' health, as the Open Society Fund says, and of course we fully agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4259	The People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please, let us bring this controversy to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 101, I'm being misjudged. I know there are serious and non-serious people, there are serious and non-serious policies. I can say that there are unserious people, but I will never say that there are retarded MPs. That's not what I said. If someone wants to see themselves as retarded, it's his personal problem. I would like to say about those serious and non-serious people, including serious and non-serious discussions, here's how it is presented to the citizens of Serbia. It's not true that 30 locomotives were purchased. Thirty locomotives have been remounted in Končar, and that is now a replacement of thesis. The locomotives are being remounted, and the MP comes out and says 30 locomotives are being bought. That's not true. As for Mr. Vukic's remarks that we're going down something and five inches, I think that when anthem is played, whatever, if you're already a guest, one procedure should be respected. It's a manners of good behavior. If anyone thinks they can cancel someone out, wipe out this country or maybe run over that America, let them do it, but we're running one policy that we consider to be the only one that's possible in this country. Force policy, threat policy, impudence policy, rudeness, ugly words towards foreign citizens, I don't think they're going to bear fruit, as it is not in the previous period. So now the thing is, every single person's attitude, the attitude of the parliamentary group, the policy they're taking, how they're going to behave. We respect everyone's anthem and can say that it was ugly in the previous period to watch even Serbs who disrespect their anthem. In the end, maybe I'll take one minute to stay out of touch. (President: You cannot extend Mr. Vucicevic. All right, I'll get back to you. To Mr Rajko Baralic, I said that Mr Rajko Baralic is a serious man, and he has now shown this discussion that he is an unserious politician. Mr. Baralic, you forgot those abductions in front of the store for a loaf of bread. You forgot that, Mr. Baralic. Of course, you have an excuse for everything. You've forgotten empty pharmacies, empty shelves, sadness, what. You're talking about some 10,000 companies that someone can't sell. You can't sell it with as many debts as you left it with. So, Mr. Baralic, I'm surprised by one fact, and that's why I'm saying you're an unserious politician. Today you have an archaic. I just feel like you're crying that you're not in power, and you were completely different in that previous period when you supported the government. You raised your hand, Mr. Baralic, for three years, and now I see you crying here, you're just grieving. In the end, I'm sorry, my young Kraguyevchan has come out. I voted for Tomislav Nikolic, I voted for Tomislav Nikolic for Parliament Speaker Tomislav Nikolic, because in the end I am sure that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in agreement, would respect the policies that are being implemented. So, I voted for the Kragujevan, and a young colleague, I don't want to criticize her because she's very young, but I'm glad she was just watching me in this room vote. (President: Mr. Vukicevic, time is long gone.) I thank you. I'm not ashamed of my actions, and in any case everything I've done, I've done honestly and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4261	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just to point to the fact that it's one of the most beautiful buildings in Belgrade, that the project is the same as the National Bank building, and that I've done some video in that building and found that you're taking care of it as "Alaybe's straw". There are no floors in that building, no ceilings, no sanitary knots, no heating, it's like it's out there somewhere on Mars. That's why these amendments suggest that someone threw an eye at that beautiful Belgrade girl, even though she's at a bit of an awkward location, down at the Bristol Hotel. That's why I'm drawing attention to the fact that this amendment does not accept, since this is obviously some kind of thief. If it could be a thief, that's what these locomotives and cars warn us about, that's what I heard from you from the DS that one of the biggest robberies in Serbia's history is. I hope now that one minister is going to go to a press conference and say, "Here, I'm in power for two months now, I've found that he's not the thief who processed the locomotives or found himself -- he's a thief." I expect it from you. It's a non-serious game for us to get amendments from the ruling coalition here. Now I feel like we're voting for that amendment. Let's see what happens to that coalition of yours. If the minister is against the amendment, if you have some agreed policy, then it's unacceptable for me, but you started it when you chose the ministries and when you shared the feeds, when the G17 plus took the money he was counting on when you formed the government. But obviously, every law will have a story of thefts in the ruling coalition. Is the theft done until you have formed this government, whether the theft is done now, we can analyze it here, but it's obvious that people who have accused each other of the most serious crime and that now the dust has fallen on that most possible crime, and that you're looking for affairs in people who are currently not in power to distract the public. It's not an affair for me if you're now accusing Chad or Mike or Laza. It is an affair for me if you now accuse Kostunica, Dinkic, Tadic, Velju, for me it is a real fight against crime. The warning given by MP Pai Momchilov is very serious. I ask you once again to consider the sin you have committed towards Serbia when you appointed committee presidents from their parties to the ministers. That's why the whole of Serbia is buzzing about the state of our health, and the National Assembly is silent and spraying its ashes, because it's the minister from G17 plus and because the chairman of the Health Committee is from G17 plus. We are not asking the opposition to lead all the committees, but we are asking you to have at least so much morals for another party from the ruling coalition to take over that committee so that we can determine what is happening in Serbia's healthcare. The minister's statement that he personally doesn't feel any responsibility is pointless. Then what do we need a minister for? We need someone who has a responsibility, not a position, a salary, a function, but a responsibility. If the situation in healthcare is bad - responsibility, if in traffic is bad - responsibility, if in finance - responsibility. Not that the minister says - I don't know what's going on, I don't feel any responsibility. So please, it is that there are fewer and fewer of you in these sessions, avoiding the sessions of the National Assembly, avoiding direct clashes, reckonings, discussing laws or the current political situation, but think about it a little bit, the elections are very close. You've seen how the authorities who use the media in the campaign go through to win the election. They have to call for help to form a government. Who are you all going to call for help to form a government? Now you're all in the same media service. Now you can see exactly when you give the media attention and when they don't. So please think again, the coalition is a difficult problem, a serious problem, two parties so it's a lot, and this with multiple parties is a really serious problem. Don't let the kid do this kind of evil to Serbia, because it's going to beat up over the back of Serbian citizens and then over your backs. That's why it's better to solve it now than to call you out from day to day and say it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. We'll warn you about this from day to day, that's our job. Only if you don't show up in this congregation with any draft laws, so there's nothing to discuss. As long as you have the bill, we're waiting for you here in the Assembly. Now a little bit about the law, and a little bit about what you don't want to talk about, which you don't want to put on the agenda. You don't want to discuss the financial situation. We're going through a debate about the Civil Service Act, which is difficult for us. Obviously, the country is in a difficult situation. We're a serious party, we're not going to push the government on any other issues, when we know how much work we have to do around Kosovo and Metohija, and you're also running away from that Kosovo and Metohija. You in the paper announce that someone will ask the assembly to hold a session on Kosovo and Metohija. Once again, through the media, you will inform us of what the MPs will do. Here's the minister, thank him for showing respect to the assembly, sitting there... (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm really sorry. I've been over it for a minute. You could have said, Mr. Minister, here, on behalf of the Government, I would have informed you that we would have asked the Assembly to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, not to read it in a media that favored Vojislav Kostunica that day. Stop playing with the National Assembly and the influence of the SRS not only in the National Assembly, but in Serbia's society. Obviously, if each law lasts for a week or two, when you will be able to show Europe that package of system laws you have fulfilled so that you can join the EU. As far as this anthem is concerned, I apologize, I end up, first of all, not a single reception is playing an anthem of the country that organized the reception, it's only doing America to humiliate you. You stood there like a child, like a servant, you came to whoever took your territory to stand still when his anthem was performed. You will stand still when he declares Kosovo and Metohija independence. What if Polt had said that day, stopped for a microphone and said -- now I declare that America has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, would your foot have gone willingly or would you still remain calm in front of your bosses?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4263	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really worried about one of the things that's been told here, that in the railway Serbia, all the cars and all the locomotives are broken, that the brakes aren't working. I think it's an insult to 20,000 people who work there, to those of the same people who are not politically colored and who deal with their profession every day. It's really incorrect for such a big public enterprise to say such a lie. Every day, day-to-day controls are carried out, and no locomotive can get into traffic if it's technically broken. I would also like to say that no new Končar locomotives have been purchased, as my predecessor Vukicevic has said, and every locomotive is again granted special permission to get into traffic. For your information, Czech maneuvers are the most cost-effective, practically traffic locomotives and where the multi-litre savings are when it comes to fuel. So, those old Kennedy locomotives were thrown out that they spent a lot, they were extremely inconclusive, so new Czech maneuvers were bought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4265	National MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4266	Article 104(1) and (2) Mr. Vucicevic, or whatever your name is, from New Serbia, it's very nice that you started to report for this pay phone, but I want to tell you that you are politically incorrect when it comes to the SPS and its MPs, and you are also ungrateful, which speaks of you as some big politician. You cannot address SPS MP Rajko Baralic and the SPS parliamentary group this way. The SPS supported three-and-a-half years of minority government of Vojislav Kostunica and allowed you to pass 200 reform laws that are more or less applied because you in continuity in Serbia rule for eight years. You had to ask the SPS for help because you don't have a style between you and you show it in this government as well. How are you not ashamed, whose period of rule you mention, how do you talk about it? What have you forgotten? I don't mind sitting in this congregation once to discuss who he is and how he ruled. I will not mention all these crimes committed after 2000, except one: crime committed by Velja Ilic, as minister. Let's see what minister's affair is... (President: Mr. Bajatovic, you cannot assess the work of a minister so casually. Mr. Albianic, yes, Mr. Minister Ilic is not a National MP. Give me a member of the Rules of Procedure who's talking about how we can't talk about ministers. We can. (President: You cannot use such terminology. We can, we can, Mr. Albianic, and you're suing me. There's been a lot of co-evaluations from the ruling coalition. Do you think the SRS is the only party that can obstruct your sessions? It's not. You, for the political correctness of the SPS, because of the illiterate political individuals present in this House, spit. We can act differently, but you can't talk about us like that. I'm asking a parliamentary question. I want the Minister of the Interior to answer me all about the affair of importing locomotives, all about the travel mafia, I want to know the amount of asphalt that's embedded, where the asphalt is thinner, where it's thicker, where it's stolen two or three inches from one side and on the other, how much the gravel is built in. And what hurts you most, I want as an MP to get a financial report on the work of the Ministry of Capital Investment to detail. So if you really want to talk about all this and make excuses about how he ruled, since you're current, let's discuss you first, and then I don't mind discussing us. I advise you to be very good with the SPS, you have an American party in the government, you may need us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4267	Mr. Bajatovic, we will refer your demands to the departments responsible. The only thing I don't know about is this report in detail, you're gonna have to do it in writing to deliver it in order to know what the details are. It is not usual for a report on the work of the Ministry to be delivered to the MP individually, I think it is necessary for the entire assembly. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I thank you for finally coming to the opportunity to speak to you, I have tried several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4269	You can put the microphones down a little bit, Mr. Halimi, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4270	The intention was to support this initiative, in fact, the request of individual Members on regulation, in fact, to specify the Law on Civil Service Officers in the direction of ensuring ethnic and gender structure and in general the representation of all endangered categories. I think it's a very objective request that arises...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4271	On the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure do you have this request?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4272	... and the situation on the ground. Article 226, but this is just an introduction to me, so I'm going directly to ask you questions that I'm going to ask. So it is necessary, and it is inevitable, to allow members of national minorities to be represented in state bodies, that is in the area of the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac and through the Government's programme promised, not only for these three municipalities, there is Vranje. This was about the possibility of involving Albanians in state and social structures, and on this, it is likely that where Albanians live in other environments, but there is a more pronounced problem here in these three municipalities, so I think that if this matter were settled properly, when the government's programme was achieved in practice, it would not happen what happened at the Presevo border crossing since 1992, that in all state institutions, not only state, but also commercially, there is no presence of Albanians, although in that municipality more than 90% of the population. There, without the decisions of the municipal authorities, was built a series of facilities, and expeditions, and all of the following objects of the border crossing, and so far, these 15 or 16 years, no permit has been issued by the competent municipal authorities. It's still an area of trust, and they're entrusted to local self-government. It is in this sense that what was earlier in 15-16 years continues in this government, it is these days that construction began, illegal, commercial content at the Presevo border crossing, via the monopoly, which certain structures of the authorities gave to the Belgrade companies "Interspid" and "Intermol", for the construction of a gas station and accompanying commercial content. I think the basic question here is whether the law is respected in all municipalities, or whether it is selective, in Presevo local government can enforce the law of intended obligations and competences. So I'm asking the question, how was it possible at all, without the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, without the compensation of the construction land, without including in the entire process of municipal and municipal inspection that was ignored here, how it is possible to permit and to work hard, and that all economic operators of the Presevo municipality were ignored, and one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the state, the main resource, Corridor 10, commercial content of the border crossing, simply to say, by one illegal procedure, this monopoly gives to companies from other environments, while ignoring absolutely all operators in Presevo. That is why in this case I fully agree with the amendment that MP Srdjan Shain gave regarding the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4273	Mr. Halimi, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Time's long gone. Mr. Halimi, the law that's on the agenda doesn't predict what you're talking about and the law doesn't separate people on a national basis. Please pay attention to that. If you have any constructive draft laws, please deliver them to the National Assembly. As for local self-government and governmental exercise, one who wins those elections forms a coalition and exercises appropriate authority at the local level. National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. I would just like to ask Mr. Halimi why he advocates something he does not respect in his municipality, because there Serbs do not have rights as minorities, but you have kicked them out of power at all, and here you stand for a proportionate principle, which I stand for and I support you for, but I ask you first to apply it to the territory of the municipality where you were president. Secondly, I would like to ask Mr. Halimi if he is looking forward to much that Serbia does not have a state prosecutor?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4275	Mr Vasiljevic, I answered Mr. Halimi, and you called before Mr. Halimi asked for a word and now you've changed your mind, so now you're talking about him. You want to tell me what you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4276	It's not true, because I know exactly what Mr. Halimi is trying to say, and since I'm psychic, I want to answer Mr. Halimi. On Saturday, Mr. Halimi, you made a statement in the daily paper "Justice", where you said you would separate three municipalities from southern Serbia and join them in Kosovo. Mr. Halimi, you could only say that for one reason, because Serbia has no state prosecutor, because if it had, it would not be able to prevent you from parliamentary immunity from running the case against you, because for this act you have declared and for the destruction of the constitutional order and territorial integrity of Serbia a sentence greater than five years in prison is foreseen. There couldn't be any parliamentary immunity to protect you. Please make it clear from this pay phone that it is an invitation to the rise of the Albanian people in three municipalities in southern Serbia and that what you are doing is the only reason why we do not have a state prosecutor? I should immediately remind you of one fact that MPs in the National Assembly do not know, and should know: on June 27th, only in mentioning my name and Garda Cara Lazar, Cheku and Riker have banned my entry into Kosovo territory, and probably no one here knows, and that the sentence of prison is intended, only because I am a member of the Guard of the Emperor Lazar, or founder, six months in prison if I appear on Kosovo's territory. Mr. Halimi, you have invited Albanians from southern Serbia to destroy the constitutional order and nothing to anyone. You can see that part of Serbia's territory is being defended from the administration that came there in 1999, and this country is doing nothing to protect its citizens, its MPs or state bodies, who only want to visit Kosovo's territory, organise, and improve the position of Serbs in Kosovo's territory. I think they are different arches; this state has to prove that it cares about Kosovo's territory as part of Serbia and that it will protect and ask for an explanation from the current government in Kosovo why it has come to me as a national MP, to ban me from entering the territory of Kosovo; and I think it is a serious state issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4277	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shane, you can answer the amendment, don't make up the subject by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. A question for the president of the National Assembly: Is it true that the next days will be the election of a state prosecutor? It's time for the MPs to know that, it's time for the members of the Justice Committee to be informed about it, and not for it to be found out through the media, that's not the right thing to do. The provision of Article 104 has been violated. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I think some MPs have been injured by the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't want to interfere with the old coalition partners from the previous government, that love is obviously broken up, and that's why they're having this kind of bile reaction. I am much more interested in the relationship of current coalition partners who form power. On the occasion of previous polemics, let us remember that just some of the prominent officials of the Democratic Party and current ministers were the loudest in the story of the purchase of locomotives over the boutiques, which we heard and saw was the biggest crime, that the state was damaged by tens of millions of dinars or millions of euros. That was one topic. From the mouth of the same people we listened to for days about the abuses of people who are headed by the roads of Serbia, the road mob and so on. Now be quiet about it. If a crime is committed, if there's a crime, if someone belongs to the mob, so what does it mean, you're with him now, and it's no longer worth it. Our people say who you're with, that's who you are. The other day, we watched these members of the road mob, along with the prime minister, open up a section of the road. The prominent members of the road mafia, the top of the road mafia, are not covered by the investigation of party prosecutor for organised crime Slobodan Radovanovic. Yesterday I traveled a circular route through the so-called. A cancer tunnel, a contribution to the road mob story. Do you people know what a cancer tunnel looks like? It's a picture of Sodom and Gomorrah, from above a drop of water, there's no light anywhere, and what's called August, it's off wheels. The cancer tunnel, the frequency of enormous, believe me, it's some modern Hades, it's nowhere in the world, there's no spellologists there to get in, they'd find some acreages that aren't anywhere in the world. In a civilized world, the Sherpas would lead through what's called a cancer tunnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4279	Mr. Batic, please don't explain your romantic journeys to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4280	I explain because it's sad, it's on the territory of the city of Belgrade, it belongs to the magistrate's path. Go through that tunnel if you can. In a civilized world, tunnels are marked, lit, ventilated, SOS phones. And we're talking about some kind of capital reconstruction of Serbia's travel network. It's a shame and a shame. It's an insult to common sense. It's a question for coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4281	Srjan Shain, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4282	I apologize, Chairman, I really had no intention of commenting on the amendment I submitted, but I simply think that Mr Riza Halimi misunderstood the essence of this amendment, that I must explain it to all MPs in the assembly. I expect one great support from all MPs, not only the ruling majority, and if this is how it is interpreted, then I fear that certain political groups may succumb to such interpretation. The point is, the amendment is not submitted for the resolution of potential international conflicts or to resolve the employment of minorities in regions such as Bujanovac, or Subotica, etc., here when we talk about minorities, then we talk a lot about Subotica and Bujanovac, the essence of the amendment is to help create a social justice society. That is why people with disabilities and gender representation are mentioned, because we know that we have disabled wars, this amendment will also help them to work faster in the authorities of the state administration, and it will help where both genders are not adequately represented to work faster. At the end of the national minority, because it is one of the instruments that minorities, such as Roma, Askalia, Egyptians and others, are not in sufficient numbers in the authorities of the administration in one way also have the possibility of economic empowerment. I would ask all MPs to experience this amendment in this way, and not that he has the goal of defining that there are international conflicts, that because of this discrimination not only the employees of minorities in the authorities of the state administration, so let's now, by this law, solve this press in a slightly different way, we'll create conditions. So we're just trying, who knows which way I define here at the pay phone, to rephrase the well-intentionedness of Serbian citizens into state authorities as well. This is the way and the fight against corruption, they are not uniformly colored, those who hire relatives in the state administration, friends by relationships, to tell them, stop for a while, you have to hire these others, because the pomegranates of state administrations are the organs of all citizens. In that sense, I was saying, Mr. Chairman, I am really using the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101, to explain the essence of the amendment, which I think is misunderstood. I apologize if you've interpreted my report differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4283	Your amendment, which was first read, the Administrative Committee has accepted, has been accepted by a proposing representative. Riza Halimi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4284	Thank you very much. I hope Ambassador Srdjan is better understood now than just a minute, because he originally had the opportunity to present his amendment. Here, in my opinion, is the basic question, every time I appear and bring life problems out of our area, it immediately comes to other political issues, such as the Guard Commander, who is now asking MPs in the National Assembly, i.e. It's too much to solve the problem of entering and even attending the event that was in Gazimestan a few days ago. The SPS MP, he is well aware of the 99th year and knows that the SPS government has also decided that the majority in this assembly will sign the Kumanski Agreement and any resolutions adopted in this area. It is perfectly normal for you to address Riker and those representatives of international authorities who are representing, together with Kosovo institutions, public order and the interests of citizens in Kosovo at all under the agreement. It's a procedure. As for that interview or whatever it is, or in which list has already been issued, I mean, firstly, every MP or anyone who deals with this activity knows that the titles do not formulate even a journalist, let alone the person who gives the interview, is already a editorial policy. Sound headlines are a matter of editorial policy. If anyone is interested and has read the text, he has seen and had a chance to see that I am also in favour of achieving all the rights of Albanians through the institutions of the system. I think it's the essence of my entire address to this assembly and before and through local self-government. I don't know why anyone cares all the time about planting separatism when it's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4285	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4286	Reporting under Article 226. Dear MPs, I would only like to address Mr. Rizi Halimi and his exposure to international relations. I'd like to inform him that two weeks ago there was a council on international relations in the Presevo municipality and there was only no representative of your party. It was precisely there to discuss international relations and the gathering organised by members of Albanians, who demanded the arrival of NATO forces in the Presevo-Bujanovac-Bujanovac municipalities, and who demanded the secession of the three municipalities. Why didn't your representatives and your party come to this Council of International Relations? I know you've condemned this gathering, but you should've sent representatives to give their opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4287	There is a word from MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4288	Before I say that sentence of "Respected Presidency", I would like to ask the chairman first of all not to measure the time because I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Minister Markovic just did the moment he mentioned my name and my amendment. That's how he broke Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because he distracted the speaker, or before the speaker came out for a pay phone, he practically discriminated against my amendment and said that he could not accept it for some reason. I think the first thing to do is listen to the arguments, and then, practically, decide whether or not an amendment should be accepted. So I'm gonna start anyway. Mr. Secretary, I would like you to listen to the essence of my amendment. The essence of my amendment is to exempt this law from a regular procedure. The first and basic reason is that the conditions for its realization have not yet been met. For we all know that, first of all, it is not yet under the Constitutional Law done, before this law is passed, what the Constitution and the law stipulates. Here, the first session passed, what was to be done for the first regular session was not done until the end. A second regular session will come, and we will not do what we should have done during the first regular session of this National Assembly, such as - the governor of the National Bank has not been elected. According to the Constitutional Law, the governor should have been elected in the first regular session. Is it because the governor and the finance minister disagree over the final bill, about the budget, whether or not the deficit, whether it has something to do with it or not? Well, then, before this law, the authorities and audit institutions should be determined, because we all know that a state audit house should be established. Has this congregation considered whether we have at all adequate experts for this audit house? Are we finally going to get final accounts from previous budgets, the last five or six years? Here, that should be, first of all, the Assembly should think about it. Furthermore, should the Constitutional Court Law be discussed, for example? We all know that the time has elapsed for the Constitutional Court to be established. Now I wonder if the government and the ruling assembly majority do not want to establish the Constitutional Court, because it is the constitutionality of these laws or whether there is no political consensus for the Constitutional Court. President Tadic, before he went to apologize to the Croats, before stopping peacefully at the US Embassy, made his proposal for 10 judges of the Constitutional Court. But obviously that's not enough. We at the SPS advise you to establish a Constitutional Court as soon as possible. Because when we raise questions about the constitutionality of these laws that were passed before these laws, you will have a big problem, you will have a big problem in the state and in the National Assembly. Therefore, the government continued to deal with itself and this congregation majority, since normally now these 400 people in a position of course need to be fostered, should be rewarded for the results of the previous elections. But what's more important, and what this law should allow them, although you're saying the opposite of depolitical, we think it's just politicizing them, because the next election is going to go, so these people in these positions will practically make sure that the next elections are being made with these results that were now in these elections. If that's the case, I'll tell you, it's enough to just think about it. In the period when this law was passed, i.e. when it was discussed and passed this law in 2006, the government's composition was different. If we remember correctly then the government was represented by the SPO. At the time, they were not representatives of the Democratic Party. That's when G 17 plus something came in, so they went out, and so on. Normally, these positions should now be classified to those people who were not in power at the time, who are now participating in power. That's so logical. That's the way it is. I don't just know why you want to mystify, to fool Serbian citizens that that's not the case. You're right, normal. What now, when you bring these new positions, then you'll say -- well, they're not our people anymore. Now they're depoliticized people and they're not going to implement our policy anymore. If so, why didn't you bring them here on July 1st, 2006? At that time, you were able to set them up nicely, since in these positions members of any party must not propagate, according to the law, their political interests, nor cooperate with their political friends. Then it doesn't matter, you had time to place them in your seats and healthy. But it couldn't, because now there's a second constitution in the government compared to what it was. You could've set them up, and the technical government could've set them up. She could, right, right, you weren't then, but now she's in power, the Democratic Party is now in power. You could have set them up during the technical government, because these positions today are not functioners, as you yourself have declared them. So there was a way to set them up. You could have set them up since May 15th, it's been a month and a half, that there was a good political will, that you were politically effective, as you haven't shown that political efficiency since the time you formed the government. So now you didn't have enough political efficiency and wit to set these people up, too. Now, if you were wearing a democratic prefix in your party names, if you hadn't dealt with those people you found in these or similar places in 2000, when you came to power, if you hadn't burned down the Assembly, if you hadn't set up crisis headquarters and changed through these crisis headquarters of professional people and placed politically similar people, if you hadn't lustrated the Balinian in front of everyone, in front of the public, in front of all of us, we would have believed that it was depolitisation. But obviously it's not about depoliticization. All we have left is to admit it. So now I want to tell you that the assistant minister, secretary of the ministry, director of the body, etc., which you have foreseen for these positions, I would like to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that all these people are being appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister or on a proposal from the Prime Minister. Now, as you're used to putting the government in five minutes to 12, you've now passed this law in 12 and 5 minutes, because we already know the time. You will find ways to retrograde this law. That's not the problem, because you know that your congregation majority in the assembly will do anything when it comes to the government's interest. This is not what you make of the Assembly, as someone said, the Nanny of the Assembly, but it is what you make of the tycoon of the Government. You have declared that these 400 people are your political priority, but I wonder why it would not be your political priority, for example, a million unemployed people in Serbia, who are looking for a job today. Why shouldn't thousands of health workers and hundreds of thousands of other workers who had to be blackmailed and threatened to lose their jobs, who gave up their jobs for cheap money, and sold their rights, even the most basic rights to social and health care, and now they've lost them? Why are your interests not millions of sick people who cannot receive adequate health care, because many health workers had to, according to a new direction, leave work? But that's why 400 well-rewarded civil servants are your priority, because I say elections go, and they'll be election inspirers. That's why 250,000 other civil servants, who are on the verge of existence, perhaps social cases or close to social cases, are not your priority. Because normally they should be grateful to have a government job, they'll vote for you by automation. That's why the Law of Salaries managed to get these 400 positions, with one to eight, in coefficients, to single out and reward richly. Why, for example, did you not allow health care professionals to make this relationship, for example, one to four, just double the salary. Healthcare professionals are certainly experts, they were not even politicised and should not be depoliticised, but they are experts in their jobs. I'm just asking one question, are you public service directors going to ask, if you're already predicting a depolitical process, according to professional arches, or are you going to do it in political likeness? For example, in Negotina, I'll tell you from this pay phone whether you're going to set up non-partisan personalities for the directors of public service, now that you've come to power, or if you're going to set up political arches. What about special advisors to the ministries? How do they get to their jobs in a mystical way, to their salaries? You didn't answer that. Just by end, you've increased the state apparatus, the civil servants, you've increased, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture by 200 workers. How's our farm? Agriculture is in terrible shape, agriculture is terrible. Not only did you not help the peasant in the manufacturing process, but you also avenge him. Only information works, a quantum market can buy a place for four months at least, even though we know the season isn't even a month, but it will certainly succeed in reselling the place somehow to those who don't take advantage of their jobs. Have you thought about a peasant who comes from Negotina to refund his transport costs, etc. You're not. You picked up his gas. The Ministry of Education for 100 Workers, and the state of education and not to speak, etc. I'd talk a lot more, but I have to leave the microphone to my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4289	The word has the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the amendment, four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before the start of this discussion, I had a dilemma about whether I should address you or Mrs. Nadia Kolundji for this problem that the promoter is making, but I still decided to address you as an expert. I wanted to tell you one thing, you pointed out here several times the example of your ministry, as it was done, that's what I want to congratulate you on, because you've shown how professionalization and depoliticization should be carried out in the state administration. However, I must disappoint you again and tell you that this is an exception, and as an exception, it just confirms the rule that in other ministries it is not such a situation unfortunately. As far as the SPS parliamentary group and the Veterans of Serbia are concerned, I must tell you that we are fully behind your idea of professionalising and depoliticalising the state administration, especially those of the most important state functions, such as ministerial assistants, who play a very important role not only in implementing politics, but also a significant role in policymaking, especially in some vulnerable populations. When it comes to professionalization, I must tell you that many of your colleagues did not respect that idea. Many have brought to the post of assistant minister exclusively party personnel, some of whom do not even meet the basic conditions of the profession, I will not say that they do not have completed the appropriate qualification, but do not have a qualification that suits that profession. When it comes to depoliticisation, I must warn all MPs and tell you that there is nothing of depoliticalism if a dozen of the MPs have resigned as MPs to enter the state administration and become ministerial assistants. Be assured that these people will never be absolute professionals and depolitized, because their tasks will be a priority from the party. We can't talk about depoliticisation if the presidents of individual municipal committees of certain parties are ministerial assistants. It's totally incompatible stuff. I would really like, if this is the idea of this law, that all those elected to important functions in the state, and above all I mean the secretary of the ministry and the assistant ministers, are resigning in party functions. Will they freeze their party membership to be professionals and depolitized? Make sure he doesn't. That's where I think of the MPs from your party. I would just like to warn you of one fact, which is clear to all of us, and I suppose it's clear to you, and it's talking about the difficulty of achieving these two ideas, which is that a huge number of ministerial assistants has changed for one reason only, and that's that ownership of the ministry has changed the party. So, the other party became the owner of the ministry and some ministerial assistants from one ministry moved to another, and people from parties were brought to the other. In order not to overstep the time, since the chairman has a particular dot on me, I just have to tell you one fact, which is that you from this pay phone commended the SPS parliamentary group that they had a conversation with you before discussing this law and before discussing these amendments, I must tell you that it is perfectly logical if it is the SPS and the Veterans' Movement of Serbia, which are state-run parties... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... the interest of the state and the government and the people of Serbia is above petty political interests. We want to tell you, and also to tell other ministers, that for this idea of support and talks in the SPS parliamentary group, it will always find a good talker and someone who will help improve the position of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4291	Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4292	This amendment proposes erasing all three members of the bill. This is the best amendment to this bill, because it respects common sense, respects chronology and respects the political fact that we have been punished, we have resented God, so we are punished as soon as the Democrats are in power. It's the most severe punishment. Now, I'm going to explain this nicely to you, since a few days ago, the government's representative for this item on the agenda has shown ignorance and an inappropriate dose of indiscriminateness, arguing that some of the things that SRS MPs are saying are bordering on lies. How is that DS when the government works and does? One is a public password, one is a media parole, and in reality there's a whole third story. The third story is that it is the negation of everything that is written in the regulations and the negation of everything that goes as a message to the public. I've reviewed these days all of the government's personnel decisions of the Republic of Serbia by dates to see what they've done and how exactly what was announced from this pay phone a few days ago, that this government has decided to depolitize the state administration, starting with the assistant minister, and down. Of course, it's easy to determine that it's a lie. That's a big lie. I'll take an example of a man named Miroslav Marinkovic. This government has put him in place, I think it's the director of the Department of Veterans at the Ministry of Agriculture, where he came from the Chamber of Commerce. Otherwise, Markovic showed great knowledge of the PKK because he was president of the PKK Management Board for a long time and don't be surprised, he knows that. You see, Miroslav Marinkovic is set up and now someone's trying to convince us that he's depolitic, someone's trying to convince us that he has nothing to do with politics anymore, he's got something to do with vets, professions, etc. Of course, since I'm working with the laufer, and not with the Gulanfer, I'm asking around and I see that Miroslav Marinkovic is from Svilinc and that he was a good sponsor of DS, he gave, Mr Markovic, more than you, 85,000 dinars. Imagine, he gave more than Tadic. Now I'm going to read to you how it's secretly funded the DS election campaign, which I promised, since Mr. Bosko Ristic, he's here to keep his mouth shut, but when he goes to Nis then he talks about everything and everything, of course, I find out all that, so I have to deny him. I can tell you now what it looks like with the depoliticized financials. Our great friend Aleksandar Vlahovic was one of the major sponsors, 115 thousand dinars. (President: Mr Krasic, the report was on the Finance Committee, made available to the public and has nothing to do with this amendment. I'll make myself up again, Mr. Albian, that you didn't say anything. We've got Mr. Boris Tadic, he's only separated 20,000 from his party as president. Under this law, Miroslav Marinkovic could not be elected as an assistant, because he has this status as director of the administration, etc. He's a civil servant in position, according to this new law. He couldn't possibly be chosen if it was the logic of depoliticalism. But if it makes sense that when a prominent political figure engages in a state service, it freezes its political functions, and if someone told us that story, I don't know any citizens in Serbia who would believe it's true. That's absolutely impossible to be true. The examination of these solutions on resolution, setting up, etc. comes up with amazing data, that they use different legal jobs for the same legal act. It's possible, Nikola. In accordance with Article 179(1), they set up and resolve. This government, not her technically, but this government. Somewhere they resolve without calling any applicable law, but by calling for their good will. That's an interesting thing. When the Democrats say hello to you, look at the sky right now to see where the sun is, if there is one. They can't be trusted. That's why this is the best amendment. Why? The whole bill is deleted. Why? That traces of what has been done since this democratic government was formed. To see what was done, to get out. I recommend that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia come to the government site of the Republic of Serbia, find those ministries there, and look at what they said, I think that's what's on the Justice Ministry's website -- a team of ministries. They're a team, a football team. Take a look at their image of biography and their presentation of their careers, what they did, how they did, where they worked, and how far away they were as professionals from the government's parties. They're not far away. They are located in those basic structures of the parties that make up the government. Why now someone tells us they will be appointed persons with a five-year term of office as experts, allegedly assistant ministers of some. I'd like to read to you for one assistant, since that's the termology that suits you, it seems to me to be the Ministry of Culture. She finished her presentation with a thought sentence that fits, shows the spirit of the DS - loves her country and follows the sport. Of course, I'm not telling you about the fact that state secretaries of mild ties in their profession do not have jurisdiction and jobs being carried out in some ministry. No wonder, however, they seek expertise in terrorism. Everyone has a course in terrorism, as if after 9/11, there was a condition for progress in the DS to have a course in terrorism. It's like the Taliban running the country for us. Just to remind you, Snezana Malovic was appointed by this government in May 2007. It was a contest back then. He's an assistant in the judiciary. Goran Jovovic, and Vukica Buckovic. You see, with that lady, she was appointed assistant minister. Her work career - VIP Progress Nicosia. You Democrats are disgusted by the importance of Cyprus, and that's where it gained that knowledge from the area of finance. She was a little there, so Teletrade, so she came to you from Teletrade. You wrote it all on the website. Sasa Vukadinovic, June 2007, you placed him in a place where he must not be a political figure. Convince me it's not a political personality. I'm gonna skip this lady who loves her country and follow the sport, and my daughter Sofia. Jelena Marjanovic, these are G17, Stojan Arizanovic, he has nothing to do with G17 plus. He's disgusted by G17 plus, and he's disgusted with getting into Junior's ministry. Nebojsa Skoric, he first vomits up in front of the ministry building, then joins the ministry because he cannot stand the G17. (President: Mr. Krasic, don't treat the citizens of our country like this, according to the faces of the chosen people. I don't understand the terminology you're using. I'm not setting myself up for these faces, but I'm describing what disgust they're going to work with, since they're not G17 plus people. What are you worried about? It used to be "when it's hard," Covic. Today with disgust, people go to work. In the sociology of labor, there's this problem and it says, "Go to work and shake." Why? He knows what's waiting for him there. I was just trying to explain how a man shakes, because he knows there's a G17 plus waiting for him, and he has nothing to do with G17 plus, because he's depoliticized. When did he depolitize? May 20th, 2007. It depolitized on 24 May 2007. I'd like to step this up a little bit so I can show the public what this impossible mission is. I personally believe that what you call a secretary of state, and I say Deputy Minister, that he should be the secretary of the ministry, the assistant minister, they should be political figures and should change in the package when the minister changes. No, you're trying to convince us that apparently political figures will be placed there and allegedly non-partisan personalities, with a five-year term, allegedly no one moves them when it comes to the change of government. That's that prank you're doing. You don't go clean-handed in these things. That's why I'm saying - this amendment is the best, because it denies the bill. Denying the bill, that means it's snowed, which day's the trails to come out, let's see what kind of beasts are there. Beasts in terms of clues, not people. Why? To finally break up with this lullaby, with this little story. The flowers, the smell, the beauty, everything's fine, we smile, we shut up, we walk in, we come out. There will be no report on this on RTS. Why? It doesn't fit. I've got that list on the list and Srdjan Shaper, so I don't want to tell you, the eminent faces are here. Here is Srdjan Milivojevic, and he, a Kruševljanin, imagine, he says - in black is a wrapped Kruševac, he has separated 90 thousand from his pair from him such dear DS. There are 530 and some comets. None of them gave a dime. That's all the money from abroad, half of them don't know they're on the list. They were wondering what I was going to do on the list, he said, you gave money, I didn't give money, who said I gave money. You've still rudely presented some of the presidents of the municipal committees from some towns and some of the villages as billionaires. You showed one, you gave it twice. He prefers DS than Boris Tadic. Anything with you can. We'll have to show the citizens what's done, why is done, how is done. I've got the next amendment, where I'm going to explain how I thought I'd fix this amendment to my predecessor and teach these government representatives some time in the course of high, mind-thinking state policy to look at the hour and calendar, because basically the problem with this bill is that there's no official clock or official calendar in the ministries. I support Mr. Bosko Ristic, who said he needed here an hour to officially count time. If that were to happen, if the departments had an official time-calculation clock, they probably wouldn't make mistakes like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4293	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the proposing representative did not accept this amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. According to Business, the MP Radivoje Milanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4294	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. For the sake of truth, Mr Krasic called Mr. Miroslav Marinkovic a campaign funder. It is very logical because Dr Miroslav Marinkovic was a candidate for the MP in the municipality of Svilajnac and in the municipality of Svilajnac the Democratic Party won. It obviously bothers the radicals. What prompted me to go out for a pay phone is to say that Dr. Miroslav Marinkovic was at the same time the Director of the Veterinary Station in the Great Plan and is one of the leading experts in our country from the field of genetic engineering. It defined him as the Director of the Veteran Directorate, not as a member of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4295	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4296	Just one sentence for the predecessor. Well done, there are sincere people in the Democratic Party who confess. That's all I said, which you later confirmed. Let's move on to this amendment of mine. The SRS amendment reads that Article 2. The bill changes and reads, "Article 180 is deleted. "So we are asking to delete Article 180 of the original text of the Law, not what the Government in Article 2 suggests. What do they suggest in Article 2? They propose a change of deadlines, i.e. the date in paragraphs 1 and 2. If what the Government has proposed were adopted, Article 180 would read like this, the first position: "A public competition will be held by 1 May 2008 for the sake of positioning." Item 2 would read: "To the persons who are appointed, whose jobs become positions, the duty in any case ends on 1 May 2008. What's the problem? There is no more article 180, I must inform you, Mr. Markovic. Today is July 5th, and the 180th is valid until July 1st. Article 180 shall not be located in transitional and final provisions. So on July 1st, he's gone and you're changing something that doesn't exist. It's not much, it's a 180. Look at the Pink for everything and everything. With July 1st, the capacity and strength of members 180 disappeared. It's not coalition capacity, you say capacity now, you mean the battery, as much as it can hold, or this as much as your coalition has the capacity to hold. Capacity, the legal force of the 180th is exhausted on July 1st, 2007 and we are practically no longer a member of 180th, we have it as a historical provision. A historical provision for Mr. Martinovic, if he writes a book, to analyse it, to find someone from the university and to say what the lawmaker's will was in September 2005 when he passed the law, what he planned, what he was thinking, etc. Today, July 5th, when the law is considered for the third time, through appropriate changes and additions, there is no article 180. You practically today, and if you vote for this bill, you should know that you've raised your hand for a member who doesn't exist. There's only traces, there's only outlines, and we want to draw your attention to the calendar, to the clock, to concentrate in time and space. Since you'd obviously like time to stop, but it's going on, let's tell you that July 1st is long gone, article 180 no longer exists, one process is over, you have to work by law. There's no such thing as a 180th term. Last time I joked with you, I said you could propose this law in December 2007, so that in one of the members you would seek retroactiveness and return it all, if you will, and in May 2007. It is possible if the only reason for a reasonable conclusion is 126 votes. But when the only argument is for some number of votes, then I have to remind you of Radoman Bozovic, who said - if I see 70 hands in the air, I will declare the country gambling. That's when he demonstrated that kind of force, political strength, that's what everyone, of course, condemned, but you're walking in his footsteps. You say, with 126 you can do anything, you can do it against the calendar, you can do it against the chronology, you can do it against everything. So we didn't ask to delete your Article 2. The bill, which you move the deadlines to rather than delete Article 180, that even as a historical provision no longer exists and does not burden the text of the law. Why? The force of the 180th member was fired, it no longer exists on July 2nd 2007. Of course, this is my humble contribution to make the public understand what the Democratic Party is, how they do, how they conclude. It's another contribution to my fundamental thesis that it's a drop-system, it's not a choice of funds, here, you see, and against chronology, against the calendar, against everything. Why? Because it's 126. Who guarantees them that 126? Probably the one that cuts the grass in the yard of that embassy. I don't want to spread the discussion any further. I've got more good examples here, say, Bojan Dimitrievich, and he's a non-party figure, everyone's a non-partisan figure, they have no idea about politics. We also have Vuk Jeremic, with him at the Ministry, all the same people who had nothing to do with politics, were accidentally found here. There was some internal distribution on the terraces, and then they said, who's going to apply for the minister, and they say, put me on the list, who's going to be the assistant minister, the second list. These guys came in and let's get them in. The impartial personality of Jagoda Jorga became a party. Milivojević, a non-partisan, criticised in that Democratic Party campaign, here he comes out. So, the Democratic Party needs to be seen as one mirage, they're everywhere. I'm not loaded, I'm in a hurry, I need to go to The Hague, and I want to finish this bankruptcy business as soon as possible, I don't like to leave unfinished business. I care about clearing it up with the Democratic Party, ending it with a bankruptcy mass. Of course, you know I'm following you, and I have a laufer. I don't have a gulanfer. I sent a gulanfer to see you. You're a little retired, you're putting these people away for me, but they're telling me exactly, as you can see. Although, when I miss information, I buy a newspaper and I know all about it. The CIA people don't have much trouble, they read the newspaper, and they all know what's going on in Serbia. They come out these columnists, they're tearing the whole country apart. So I have to finish this job because I have duties in The Hague, and I'll be there for a while. With the Democratic Party to finish, it is important for the public to understand what the Democratic Party is. It's a heavy mirage. It's the biggest scam that could have happened to us, and now we're facing a close past. The recent past was young, beautiful, nice, so now they're gonna make something, so people believe it. But at every step when you face the Democratic Party's policy, there's actually no policy there, it's just a drop-system. Now two, three, five or seven will be involved, otherwise they are in serious disputes over who has a better position towards material assets, not according to the position in the structure of government, but material assets. I speak first of all for these leading, not for ordinary people who are contractors, which Zoran Djindjic would say once upon a time. The contractors, yes, the support machine, yes, this group of three four finishes the job. Let me remind you, when I'm already about the government of the Republic of Serbia's staff policy. You remember in time while Milosevic was SPS president, all of them criticised him for failing to resign as SPS president. He didn't resign as DS president either. You remember in your time, little or no of these students, Ceda Jovanovic and Ceda Antic, knew they were taking the president out, so they went to Dedinje. Interesting thing, youngsters aren't so revolutionary as to visit the president home. Yeah, it's not that interesting anymore. Why? Now he's an interesting Big Brother, some other party is given to young people, not what needs to define their future. And for the sake of young people, what you pay for your tuition, or your parents, thank the DS. These little ones when they were students in 1991-1992, when they demonstrated, they sought European standards. They ended up at a time when there was free schooling, and when they came to power they introduced that schooling was paid, so because of DS, they couldn't, what Rajko Baralic said, or a peasant child to finish and become an academic. They polarised the public in Serbia, they made major social differences in Serbia. Everything that they criticized the previous government, they overcame them. With regard to the number of employees in the state service, we heard the data, Mr. Martinovic said, 2.5 times as many employees. And you know what they've been doing before, through anem, through these, everything and everything. A few days ago, a man was spatrated, and it was with pleasure, a chandelier. You saw for yourself, Mr. Markovic came out, so he reproduced very nicely what Zoran Balinovac says. There's no lustration of Mr. Markovic. Of course, I'm against lustration, because it's some orthodox nonsense of a lady who didn't know what to do with her free time, so let's write a book to catch a connection with something in the world. So, stay away from DS, take care of what they suggest, it's dangerous for the people and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4297	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dr Bojan Milovanovic. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the proposing representative did not accept this amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4298	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, the SPS, specifically my colleague Ninoslav and I have proposed two amendments as two compromises. First of all, the proposal that Mr Krasic very well explained to delete this amendment, I propose a compromise solution that deadlines for implementing the public competition be shortened by the end of this year. I will only point out that by adopting two system laws, specifically the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, the idea was that our state administration was primarily professionalized, decentralised, to increase its efficiency and, most importantly, to depollute itself. With that in mind, opposition party MPs have tried to point out all the delusions that have arisen from one good intention, which is that these laws are the ones that bring positive reforms to our state administration. The proposed amendments to the Law on civil servants, just through the extension of deadlines for the appointment of civil servants, point to what colleagues have said before me, and this is one background which essentially means politicisation rather than depolitisation of the state administration. Because if it weren't, it wouldn't have happened if one year of a year had certainly lasted to find a solution that these, in any case and above all, allegedly professional employees in the state administration wouldn't be placed in their seats. With this amendment that I've proposed shorter deadlines, since I'm a doctor, let's say, the most positive effects would be for these people as an anti-stressogenic factor, because basically all those who find themselves today as potential future employees of state bodies are under a lot of stress. This pressure and this attack, specifically the parties that are now in power, is great and simply cannot be avoided the impression that there is a great pressure on them, because simply at that job they live on, feeding their families, it certainly comes out of the context of what we say expertise first. I will point out that opposition MPs have tried first and foremost to indicate the inability of the retroactiveness of this law, which is true, the Constitution foresees, but in any case it does not fall far from the point of view that this law can be put in the context of the possibility of its retroactive application. Therefore, MPs above all, the SPS, once again, have proposed a compromise solution, to shorten this deadline and end this agony, which means that another year continues the work that we can say is Sisif's work and rock rolling up the mountain. What makes me say that? Because the largest number of these workers, already potentially civil servants in competition, have already been set up. So if what Mr. Minister was saying is that professionalism is primarily in these people by defining a factor for their admissions to work, it doesn't require such a deadline, it simply needs to be formally put in place. Obviously, it is not so, so by changing the composition of the parliamentary majority and mirror normally in the government's composition, it has affected that a certain number of workers, who now do not belong to the parliamentary majority, must be removed from the ministries, and these days, and probably in the months to come, will not feel comfortable, but will have their fate, their life and their existence to look elsewhere. They can either be similar and similar in future times, under the pressure of party functions and party functions of the past, and they will certainly benefit from these deadlines, because simply, first of all, the people who are watching all of this, will in any case mean that these deadlines are shorter. Then they would return to what the government has promoted as their own importance, meaning it should be as effective as the state administration should be. I'm going to say a few more things here that are important to local self-government. We talked about civil servants and salaries here. However, the moment seems to have gone beyond what local self-government is interested in, so in any case, the question to Mr. Minister was directed -- when this law will be passed, that it does not turn out to be both local self-government and at all one of the facts we often hear about, decentralisation, just a dead letter on paper, and in no case is what we should do and entertain. By amending the Law on Payments to civil servants, we have brought into a situation that in local self-government, through and through what was happening at the Ministry of Finance and through transfers to local self-government, today huge pay gaps between local self-government officials and civil servants. The difference is primarily in coefficients and basics, and right now I'm using the opportunity to motivate and resolute the ministry to deal with this issue too, because in any case it's an interest above all local self-government. All in all, the SPS MPs, as well as I could hear most MPs of opposition parties, will not support this law from purely non-practical and formal matters, but essential things, because through these aspects and through these proposed amendments to the Law on State Officers is being read and revealed the essence of the changes, and this is not depolitisation but just politicisation. Therefore, I will leave my colleague, Dushan, for a little while longer, expressed his desire to speak according to this amendment. In any case, the SPS won't vote for the proposed law, but with this attempt we wanted to point out and influence the expeditionivity, at least this agony that lasts a year and that should be shortened, that it doesn't last another year, but a little shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4299	National MP Dusan Bajatovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4300	Dear fellow MPs, a few things that make the debate on this law very interesting, because on the one hand, when you read this law, its intensity is clear that it narrows down the space of elected persons, so to officials, or in a particular case of executive power, to affect that professional part of the work to be done by government officials. It's a European practice, it's a world practice, it's good for democracy, and it is, because it narrows down space for people to set up and change how you think about party membership. The law was passed on June 1st last year, but the question arises why it has not been applied. It's really very interesting. Says Mr. Minister, at the Department of Justice that it was done, except for one high-ranking official, and in other ministries it wasn't. Then it really raises the question -- how does the executive power operate today in Serbia. It's known to everyone, and unfortunately, it's a very bad and ugly practice, that today and if you want to be a porter, you have to go through parties. It's hard to explain to the people that it's democracy. Well, even when you get to the top of the government, what you have to do for five years or nine years in the profession is something that should be good, but obviously someone doesn't want to apply this, like the State Auditing Institution Act was passed in less than 2005, so in two years we haven't made a state audit institution, which is supposed to control public finances, and then we haven't even laid down a public account for public income. It can't be like that. In order to make it impossible for us to dominate the executive government in Serbia, which is partly established by the Constitution, these laws must be respected, because they are just making it impossible for the negative practice that exists in the work of our executive authority, I am primarily referring to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, there is another systemic thing that this government has repeated. The ministries are simply divided by bans, so you know exactly what the DS is controlling, what the DSS controls, what New Serbia controls, what the G17 Plus controls. That's not good. I support the request from the SRS that where the minister is, if it is the Minister of Health, he cannot be a representative of the G17 plus in the Health Committee. It's not a personal problem, but it's not systemically good, because we can't control each other. The bottom line, to apply this law, is to depolitize the government, which isn't so important to me personally. I claim that all people appointed before or after the appointment will have to become members of the party, because that is what the government is looking for today in Serbia. It's bad, but it's a good thing we'd get a higher degree of expertise in the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies of interest to all citizens. Therefore, the intensity of this law was good, but as in many other segments of the functioning of this state we have good laws, we have narrowing down the room for manipulation by the executive authority, so it should be a good practice, but these laws are not applied. Why? In my understanding of things for the simple reason that the ruling political elite, decorated, first of all, in the executive government, does not want to apply positive world experience. We want to talk a lot about them, we want to pass even such laws, we want to boast about the European bang or the world practice that we want to introduce, and when we pass the law, we don't implement it. It will be, gentlemen, that it's diabolical, that it's hypocritical and that it's simply not good. So, by the way, when we talk about all this, about the efficiency of government in Serbia, we can also notice by the budget we discussed that the amount of money collected from citizens and from the economy for the state administration, and that we, in doing so, was the case of these geodetic things we discussed, we do not have an increased efficiency of the state administration. Now a perfectly logical question is being raised, in the 21st century, at the time of the information revolution, at the time of the computer, at a time of faster data processing, at the time of the availability of data in electronic form, based on the processing of all data, instead of having the fall of employees, the number of employees we pay because the means to process what we need are more efficient and instead of having the efficiency of the state administration, we have the rise of the state administration and the decline of its efficiency. I'm afraid these processes aren't good. One more thing I would like to point out, my colleague here said, it seems to me Mr Krasic, it is very interesting that the most qualified MPs are, that no one is offended, but at least by function in their parties the most qualitative, who first entered here as MPs, suddenly ended up as state secretaries. So expensive is the executive power in which there is money, in which there is an unfinished privatisation process, in which there is a lot of room for mixing, and parliament, in the opinion of the executive government, is not so important at all. Gentlemen, whatever you want us to call each other, it is our responsibility to force the executive power, I repeat, to force the executive power to respect those laws, that, no matter what we are, in their opinion, less or more good, it is the work of our MPs, to force the executive power to respect the laws that Parliament has passed. Therefore, the intensity of this law is good, it is not good that there is no respect for this law, it is not good that within a year the government has not shown its ability to solve human beings and I doubt it, I have the right to do so, in the human resources of what the executive government is offering. Do you have enough professional and qualified people to carry out or not, according to this law until the new year, as proposed by a fellow MP from our MP group Bojan? If you need a new year, you're free, gentlemen. These competitions can be held in six months, and that is the essence of fellow Bojana's amendment, which is the president of the municipality, who knows what the state administration is. So in six months we can get a good and qualified state administration. If you can't agree on this either, as you haven't agreed on this, let's say, about the budget properly, and we still don't have a budget memorandum, we don't have a global macroeconomic policy worked out on your part, so you haven't even appointed new boards, which means you haven't even agreed on the privatisation of NIS, EPS or don't give God military property, you're going to show this to the public that you don't have any human resources or at least you don't have an agreement on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4301	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's no more time for the SPS. Minister Milan Markovic has a word, and then a folk MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4302	Only this part of Mr. Milovanovic's amendment directly. And for me, it was a question, when the Legislative Secretariat came up with this law to defend it against the National Assembly of Ministers of State and Local Self-Government and when I was getting acquainted with the resolutions of this law, it was a matter of time before the National Assembly of Ministers of State, and then I looked at the Civil Service Act and I came to the next one, which I would like to read to you. So the following two provisions are essential to understand why the deadline is relatively long. First of all, when it comes to an officer in office, we talk about them, when the position is filled by the government, the internal public competition is advertised by the staff management service and carried out by the competition commission. The Competition Commission for each individual case, this is important to pay attention, appoint a High Official Council among its members and among experts etc. So for each individual case, there must be at least one member of the High Official Council. There are individual cases between 350-400, I don't know the exact number, and there are only nine members of the High Official Council. That's why it's completely obvious that it's realistic for that deadline to be a year. I doubt it is technically possible to hold 350-400 competitions in six months, each being respected under the law, i.e. that each member of the High Official Council is engaged and must be engaged in competition committees. I'm not going to question why it wasn't settled on July 1st, 2006. You mean that's not a question for me, especially since I was then a member of the opposition in this National Assembly. What is a fact, it is that since 14 February 2007, these appointments have really not been able to be made, because the government that existed at the time could not make those appointments, as it was the letter of the law that expired its mandate. On these other topics, you will allow, after the last amendment, so I will explain and related to what Mr. Bajatovic said, I will say a few things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4303	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet Radeto, after the amendment. You have no right to a replica, no one has called you. You have no right to a replica. (He speaks to the MP of the people, Zeljko Vasiljevic, who seeks the word, or the replica from the place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4304	Ladies and gentlemen, what Minister Markovic has now said is just a confirmation of what we have been saying these days, and that is that, when we have debated both this law and all other laws, instead of you or together with you, we should sit down with Vojislav Kostunica, because you said you did not know the answer to the question why the government did not finish the job within the deadline, and if Kostunica were there, he would probably know. He's the Prime Minister now. He's got you explaining something you don't know. You, Mr. Markovic, have now tried to convince, I know, not the MPs, because you know perfectly well that we are very good or excellent at this which is on the agenda, but you wanted to explain to the citizens of Serbia that this is a serious job, so you mention functions, and some advice, which is why this job could not be done within the time limit. You just wanted to make an impression that you're doing something very serious, and Serbian citizens would love to hear that you're doing something that they're finally going to start living better, even if it's not serious. As for Mr. Bojan Milovanovic's amendments, I have no doubt that his colleague was well-intentioned, as he said, that he wanted to propose and suggested a compromise solution, and if it were in accordance with the Constitution and the law, then we could talk about it. However, fellow Members Milovanovic's amendment, as well as Mrs Nada Kolundzija's amendment, which will later come into order, is unconstitutional and illegal. Now, Mr Albianic, I would like to remind you that two days ago, when we discussed this law, namely the draft law in principle, when I said that the Legislative Committee could not meet because the majority of the assembly did not have the current majority, because I guess most of them on vacation, they are scrambling at sea somewhere, and for that reason we cannot meet the Legislative Committee, then you, Mr Albianic, have so highly explained to me that the Legislative Committee has given its opinion on the law in principle, and in two days we will discuss the law in particular, and then the Legislative Committee will declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4305	You remember that well, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4306	Of course, like everything, Mr. Albianic, I'm infallible, you see. So where's the Legislative Committee report? Why didn't you invite these colleagues, who are scrambling somewhere at sea, to come to hold a session of the Legislative Committee, I'm a member of the Legislative Committee, no one has called us for a session, all of the SRS MPs who are members of the Legislative Committee are here, so no problem is that we participate in the work, but normally, we participate in the work when the parliamentary majority provides a real majority of the Committee. You know, you can't just brag that you're the majority of the congregation and you're taking a two-day break to vote on the third day, to gather yourself from wherever you part and then you're the majority of the congregation only when you have to exercise power, and when you have to do some concrete work, then you'd like the opposition to do the quorum. We'll never do that, because it's just not our job. Why was it necessary, but really necessary, for the Legislative Committee to declare the amendment of Mr Bojan Milovanovic and the amendment of Hope Kolundzi? Of course, it should have been made known about all the amendments that have been submitted, but these two amendments are, I'm sure Mr. Milan Markovic shares my opinion, but what a man, he can't say, he's a minister, contrary to the law and contrary to the Constitution. There is no, as Mr. Zoran Krasic said, member of the 180th Civil Service Act, there is no conclusion with June 30th. So, since July 1st, there has been no member of the law and no amendment can be submitted to shorten the deadline, extend, I don't know what to do with the deadline provided for in Article 180, where they had to meet the obligations set out in that article by July 1st this year. Since the Legislative Committee, in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly consider the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposal for adoption of authentic interpretation, etc., this is important - in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, we do not have that opinion. Members of the SRS claim that these amendments and that this law is precisely because of these amendments and because of this Article 2 unconstitutional and illegal, and we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee and we, gentlemen, have no conditions to continue the work. We have somehow come to this amendment and we have not intervened before that, because I know that you will say, Mr. Albianic, that even without the opinion of the board, the Assembly can continue to work and discuss, and that is the scrupulous interpretation of your Rules of Procedure. (President: That's right, Mrs. Radeta. Thank you, I shouldn't have. You have made the Rules of Procedure the most restrictive possible, but I read in the paper that Bosko Ristić prepares even more restrictively than this, it will probably be proposed, when entering the hall of opposition MPs - tape over your mouth, because that's the only way to disable us, gentlemen, to speak what we intend to say, no matter what the Rules of Procedure may be. So, I repeat, Mr. Minister, Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we do not have conditions for further work, we do not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee on these two controversial amendments, which we claim to be incompatible with the Constitution and the law. You must ensure the opinion of the Legislative Committee. We members of the SRS Legislative Committee are waiting for the president to invite us to the Committee's session, to convince the Legislative Committee there that these amendments can't be the subject of debate, and the Members of the Legislative Committee from the Assembly's majority are the other day, here the president doesn't listen to me, Mr. President of the Legislative Committee, something wise to hear, because the other day you tried to explain why some amendments suggest that the National Assembly don't accept them, and when you have a case where you have to plead, then of course pretend it's none of your business. Well, it would be good if at least as chairman of the Legislative Committee, here I now call upon you, to come out and explain as a lawyer that I am wrong, or to explain that this amendment is, and the amendment of Mrs. Hope Kolundzie and this Article 2. The draft law in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. To explain how this thing that stopped valid, the law, the member of the law, stopped valid on July 1st, so that July 5th could be discussed something that hasn't been in force since July 1st. Whether it exists in a legal system on a globe, believe it doesn't exist. What you're doing is inadmissible, I understand that you have some goals, some of your tasks, but you hire some smart lawyers, to give you these legal offices, that we as the opposition's MPs can put some principled objections to our programme, to your view and our view of all areas of life in Serbia, there we have different attitudes and different views, it's uncompromising and there we can always dispute. Legally arrange, that at least we can't legally make remarks like this. So, once again, an invitation to interrupt the session and to ensure the opinion of the Legislative Committee on Mr Milovanovic's amendment, Mrs Nada Kolundzi, so that we can discuss further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4307	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Hope Kolundji. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, with a correction. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment, with correction, be accepted. Just a little patience, we only have two more amendments until the end of the debate, to finish this until the day's break. Replica, chairman of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4308	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I convened a session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Tuesday, July 3rd, at 9:00 p.m. The fact is that there was no quorum for work, i.e. a full debate and decision-making under all seven amendments made to this bill. A few members were missing by the quorum. Representatives of opposition parties have not joined the session. As a responsible man, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I have called again for the same day session of the Legislative Committee at 1200 hours, and an esteemed colleague, if you wish to deny me, deny me. I asked you personally, you stood outside the bar at the entrance to the Blue Salon, where the session was held, I invited you as a colleague and as a member of the Legislative Committee, you and several colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, to attend the session of the Legislative Committee and to discuss all seven amendments. I don't know why you only apostrophe these two amendments, we'd be discussing all seven amendments. Also, what Mr. Chairman Albianic said, the Assembly can consider amendments without the committee's report, and this is the first time that the Legislative Committee since I have chaired it has not been held because of the lack of quorum. Furthermore, it is not true that any of the members of the Committee belonging to the congregation's majority, to put it this way, are on vacation, or at sea, on the official road as MPs in Strasbourg. So much, they're not in Trieste, they're in Strasbourg. The session of the Legislative Committee can be held before voting day, I will be pleased to have the Legislative Committee take its position on all amendments and propose certain decisions to the National Assembly. Thank you. As MP, I will report for the amendment, not as chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4309	Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. At the meeting of the Administrative Committee, the proposing representative did not accept this amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Before this last amendment to the Rules of Procedure, the Verse of Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4310	Mr. Albianic, I warned you today when you gave the word to a colleague, I don't know exactly who it was, from the congregation's majority, as soon as he called in the Rules of Procedure, I told you from where you were right, and that you're no longer playing with what you've done now, that you're pretending to be something smart, so you end up saying what the amendment is on the agenda, and then giving me the word. Read Rules of Procedure... I know him by heart. )......................................................................................................... It doesn't seem to work out for you, obviously you don't know, there's your deputy secretary, so let him explain to you what it means to report to the Rules of Procedure and when you have to give the word to the MP. If you think, Mr Albianic, that this way you will provoke the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, you are wrong, we have patience and time. The president of the Legislative Committee did not answer at all the question I asked here and did not explain to the MPs whether these two amendments, hence Mr Milovanovic and Mrs Kulundzija's amendment, were in line with the Constitution and the law. That's what I asked of you both loud and clear, colleague president of the Legislative Committee. You confirmed what I said, that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and I among them, all members of the Legislative Committee, were standing outside the hall where the session of the Legislative Committee was scheduled, waiting for you to secure the quorum. It is true that you asked if we were going to enter, I said, of course not, and I say so and now, and you never have to try to call us to enter the hall until you provide the quorum, because you provide the quorum, you are the majority of the congregation, you rule Serbia, so if you can, then you can also provide most of the Legislative Committee. So we were here, your members weren't there, you didn't keep the Legislative Committee. You say you will hold it and discuss all seven amendments, of course you should, but these two amendments are absolutely controversial, these two amendments cannot pass, they cannot get a positive opinion of the Legislative Committee. I asked you as a lawyer to try to deny me and I can see of course you didn't even try it, because you know you can't even make it, so don't turn the story around to make a joke about whether I was lying on a bar in front of an O.R. where there's no bar at all, Mr. counterpart. I repeat, hold a session of the Legislative Committee. Before that, tell Mr. Minister and tell the chairman that this session must be terminated and that these two amendments cannot be discussed, until the Legislative Committee determines whether it is possible to discuss amendments to the law, which ceased to apply on July 1st, on July 5th. That's the question you and the Legislative Committee need to answer, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4311	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Let him finish after the amendment, so we don't bring him back from his post.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 147 and Article 45 have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 147 reads: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider the amendments submitted under the bill before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. Article 45 speaks of the competence of the Legislative Committee and, inter alia, of considering the draft laws of other regulations and general acts. These two members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured and we do not currently have procedural conditions for the continuation of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as there is no report by the Legislative Committee. I must say that Mr. Ratkovic's argument, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, is a bit of a joke. The fact is that the session of the Legislative Committee has not been held. I don't get into the reasons for who's where he is, who's taking baths, if anyone's sick, officially absent, etc. The fact is that the session of the Legislative Committee has not been held, such as the fact that MPs do not have a report in front of them by the Legislative Committee on whether all amendments are legally possible, and in particular amendments by Mrs Nada Kolundžija and Mr Bojan Milovanovic, as they are amendments that are indeed of the constitutional aspect of the dispute. If the door is opened to one selective and arbitrary interpretation of the Constitution, if retroactiveness is allowed, as proposed by the amendment of Mrs. Hope Kolundjia, and there is no general interest, then as a state, we are going into a very dangerous situation - that tomorrow the Institute of retroactivity is applied whenever the Government comes to mind, although there are no constitutional reasons. Then the question arises what about the legal order, and especially what about the subjective rights of the citizens. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I strongly advise you to interrupt the session of the National Assembly, to invite the chairman of the Legislative Committee to hold a session of the Legislative Committee. If there is a quorum, the MPs of the SRS will be very happy to attend the session and we will present our opinion on all amendments, especially these two amendments, which are the most controversial. If you continue the session of the National Assembly and there is no report from the Legislative Committee on whether amendments are legally possible, then you, Mr. Chairman, are holding the greatest responsibility for the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been so brutally trampled.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4313	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I'll keep you posted on the following. The proposing representative, who has been present all along, has declared himself, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the amendments. The Administrative Committee has spoken of the amendments. The Legislative Committee didn't, it's an exact fact. Article 163 The Rules of Procedure say, "Unless the committees in charge deliver a report, or government opinion on the draft law, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions." Therefore, it is clear that there is an opportunity to work. Since the Legislative Committee has no quorum to decide, it has a quorum to work, but there is no quorum to decide, and you as representatives of the SRS will not participate in the quorum to decide, then it is clear that the session cannot be held. So any further discussion would go towards obstruction of the work of the National Assembly, and there was only one amendment left to be made by the end of this session. Are you satisfied with this explanation or is the National Assembly supposed to plead? You won't say. Please enlist that the National Assembly on the breach of the Rules of Procedure should declare itself in the day of the vote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Thank you. (The Prophet of Radet, from the place, will vote in the day of the vote, for the messenger of the people did not want to answer it. (The Belief of Radeta insists that MP Aleksandr Martinovic be given his word in the Rules of Procedure) Please, Mrs Radeta, allow Mr Krasic to speak, and we have no search for that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4314	I point to several violations of the Rules of Procedure. First, it's 104, 147, and for you, Mr. Albianic, I particularly draw attention to the members of 148 and 251. Rules of Procedure. Let me explain to you what this is about. It's about trying to force someone back the clock a few days ago. That's what you would say, which has some material weight, has some political background. What should be clear to every reasonable person is that there is one member in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who allows a provision to have a feedback. But the feedback required by Mrs. Kolundji's amendment is required to bring back something that doesn't exist. That's an even bigger problem. If that amendment is adopted, then an entire 180th member is removed from the naphthaline. So here and neuropsychiatrists, and psychiatrists, and logicists have a lot of work to do, because it's back to problem 126 again. You know, the problem is, it's impossible to determine the general interest here. What would be the general interest? Number of people. What would be the general interest? It doesn't work, it doesn't work. It doesn't work. It doesn't work. That's not true, it works. When, as a technical government, with uninformed ones, it could work, so you convinced us that a state without a legal government, that it could do without a choice, that without a president of the Republic, that it could without a final account, that it could without a budget, that even without citizens, that it could do without the sun, without everything it could do when the Democrats were in power. Now you're trying to convince us that he can do without a brain. The brain must exist, you know. So, there's no article 180, and you're asking the amendment to get him back into the law. Here is not a classic example of the feedback of certain provisions. Certain provisions are meant to be passed, and you're here asking for a feedback fact that by extracting Article 180 from the naphthaline, so you'd say turkey dots don't apply, it'll still be valid until May 2008, you know. I'm really interested in how Mr. Albianic could explain this article to me 149, I think I said, or 147, 148? (President: Article 148 you said, Mr. Krasic. ()E, this Article 148, Mr Albianic, explain, as one special right for MPs is established here. Please don't laugh. In Article 148, it reads as follows: ''In the course of the vote, the amendments in writing can be submitted by the legislator, the committees responsible and others. '" So, when we're done with the debate, we're voting on amendments. [[Speaks through laughter.]] (President: I think it's a technical mistake, that it should stand 'in the course of the debate'. Please. I guess I read it nice and I didn't do anything wrong. (President: Read it). You know, you see, when democracy is, then it's disintegrated and the brain, everything's dissociated, everything's oxygen-free, everything can. Here, you see, Mr. Albianic laughed at this article 148. It's one of the simplest nonsense, really stupid. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. ) And for article 251, you will explain this later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4315	I read Article 148 in general: 'In the course of the vote in particular, amendments in writing can be submitted by the legislator, the committees responsible, or the Government, only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment'. Therefore, this could not have been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I do not see the need for the Assembly to declare itself because we are not at this point, Mr Krasic. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and then by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4316	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am a People's MP, and when I want to speak in this assembly, then I speak from a pay phone. I'm not obliged to explain to the chairman whether I'm satisfied or not. Mr. Chairman, when there is no President of the National Assembly, it is you who should be the most loyal guardian of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and you are the last to break the Rules of Procedure. You, in order to justify the Legislative Committee, why he did not submit a report, i.e. to provide a legal basis for the continuation of the session, although there is no legal basis, were invited to Article 163. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that a member of 163 is systematized within Section 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He's printed in these dark letters. Section eight is bearing the title - emergency procedure. Therefore, only in the course of an emergency procedure can the Government, or the Legislative Committee, not deliver a report and in this case the draft law will also be considered without the opinion of the Legislative Committee. However, as far as I'm aware, this law is not passed by emergency procedure, so this argument of yours, relating to the invitation to Article 163, simply does not stand. I remain with my proposal, which I have given you really well-intentionedly, in order to get you out of this legally impossible situation, which is to interrupt, or to take a break, to invite the president of the Legislative Committee to schedule a session of the Legislative Committee and to declare the amendments. Perhaps, as a man who is not a lawyer, I understand, this debate seems purely formalistic, technically, that this is one legal outwit. As someone who knows a little bit more about the law, I'm telling you that if you open the door to the arbitrary application of the retroactivity institute, it's a very dangerous institute. It can be useful in some situations, but in some situations it can be harmful and very dangerous, especially when it comes to subjective rights of citizens. If we do so today without the opinion of the Legislative Committee, and most in this Assembly are likely to do so, accept the amendment of Mrs. Nada Kolundji, although there is no constitutional basis for this, who tomorrow guarantees us that retroactively no provisions of the Criminal Law, for which the Constitution stipulates that they cannot be retroactive. Who guarantees us that then the Institute of retroactiveness will not apply whenever someone thinks of it. So I'm telling you, interrupt the National Assembly session, let the session of the Legislative Committee be held, some of the gentlemen who are not presently here come to the session of the Legislative Committee and that there as lawyers, because there is a majority of the lawyers, we cross-reference the views on the constitutional basis for these two amendments and that only afterwards continue the session of the National Assembly. Otherwise, this is going to be one joke, and this is how Serbia becomes a state of lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4317	Mr. Martinovic, I understand that you are explicitly asking the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which we will do in the day of the vote. I remind you of Article 139(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads - unless the committees deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be discussed without these reports, or opinions. It is the assembly that is due in the day of voting on everything to plead. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4318	Dear Members, here I am going out and advertising. 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure, first position in both members. Since you know by heart, Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure, which I wouldn't brag about... (President: I am the Vice President. Please don't interrupt me as I speak. There's a few things. As you now hold a session, it does not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, and that is exactly one manipulation that is not allowed. First of all, your intruders are very often exposed to many who present their opinions here are not right. But you have in some way the discretionary right to do so, although you abuse it. We are now facing this democracy here, which is being offered to us from so-called. a democratic bloc. It's a democracy of lawlessness, or in other words, the law is me. So we can interpret here as we want the law and that's perfectly fine, even if we're violating the elemental settings of our constitution. The very prominent representatives of the SRS, the legal experts, here point to an eclectic violation of both the Constitution and the law. Now you don't want to let that opinion be affirmed in one normal and true way. The affirmation of that opinion would, of course, be what is proposed to end an illegal matter here. I'm not a lawyer, and now for our people to see what this is about, what Mrs. Kolundji's amendment requires. Of course, when you pass a new law, it's a new living body that needs to be applied. Now, if there is a general interest, we can accept all of us who are laymen and lawyers, that some of the provisions should apply and retroactively, and that's not controversial. What Mrs. Kolundjia wants. He wants the dead man to come back to life. Something that's dead, she's trying to say, and she's still living for three days. It's not a new law, it's not a life, you're a dead man's makeup and you want to represent him as a living thing. It's an elementary mistake. Those of you who have, Vice President, some mathematical knowledge and you should have something to do with elemental logic, you don't realize it. You keep insisting that we're wrong and you will, which, by the way, you want the tyranny of the majority, to just move on, to step on it. It's funny what the Honorable President of the Legislative Committee said, he resents us from the opposition for not being a position. We're against each other. We can't make most of you here on your board. You have a sufficient number of people who have to provide it and don't mention it as an argument anymore. We are ready to participate in the debate and defend our views. We don't run away from our parliamentary duty, but we don't want to make you a majority. Therefore, please, because of the citizens of Serbia, this is a disgrace and a disgrace. You Democrats, you have nothing to do with democracy, you make neither Bangladesh nor the African tribe, the original human community here you want, but the only law you have is the Tolaga, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4319	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4320	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, given the questionable constitutional basis, what Verica Radeta and Mr Krasic spoke of, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4321	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4322	I am not reporting because of the fact that the arguments and legal knowledge of my colleagues from the SRS, unlike the chairman of the Legislative Committee, influenced fellow Milovanovic, who has said so now, I am already reporting for violations of the Rules of Procedure in the work concerning the report of the Administrative Committee. Mr. Minister Milan Markovic, you, as far as we all know, have been a folk MP for years. Today, on July 5th, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, you have appeared before the Administrative Committee to discuss the points in the particulars of this law unconstitutionally proposed. Be so kind as to come out and tell me what you asked today to discuss the amendments on the Administrative Committee. Whether it's a logical order of things or you want to change the Rules of Procedure in advance on the work of the National Assembly, or it's a very simple thing, which, of course, Mr Albianic did not admit, but it's so obvious. So here we have the chairman of the Legislative Committee of Vlatko Ratkovic of the DS, we have Mrs Verica Radet, an SRS lawyer, Mr Alexander Martinovic of the SRS, a lawyer, also members of the Legislative Committee, and other Serbian radicals, and we have some that are allegedly located somewhere. First, Mr. Ratkovic, members of the Legislative Committee are not in Strasbourg at all. The one who told you that was a terrible lie. She was Mrs. Verica Radeta, but she came back the same day I was with her on Saturday, because the parliamentary session was over. If you're referring to Mr. Aligrudic, he's gone from Strasbourg to some of his work, acting like a great statesman. We are now talking about whether and why this Petar Cvetkovic, the vice president, whom you caught in a hurry to chair the Administrative Board, has delivered to us a report from the Administrative Committee, because Mr Dragan Todorovic, Chairman of the Administrative Board, Vice-President of our party, the President of the Executive Board as an honorable man and who knows, unlike you who are a lawyer, and if Mr. Todorovic has better legal knowledge as a graduate engineer than you are a lawyer. It is unfortunate that you appear in a lack of quorum that is unable to provide you with your Vlatko Ratkovic. There's a Vlatko Rajkovic from Kragujevac, same as the DS, so I'm mixing you up all the time, but he's also making a mess like you here, Mr. Ratkovic. So this really is the height of impudence. You know what you called yourself? You say - in accordance with Articles 79 and 147. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 79 says the board decides most of the time. It is precisely a confession that you have been incompetent, Mr. Ratkovic, to convene the parent committee and without that opinion cannot be discussed further, and the session must be interrupted. Well, then you've mixed up your grandmothers and frogs, and you say, "Come on." You could have caught the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, or this one for trade and tourism, or you could have asked Professor Masic, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture -- you want Masic, if there is a quorum, to discuss this. This is truly amazing what you did today and you directly, Mr. Minister, participated in the violation of the Rules of Procedure as a longtime MP and you consciously did so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4323	By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4324	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, by order of Article 96(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that laws, other regulations and general acts enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, and only exceptionally can they enter into place earlier, if there are particularly justified reasons for this, which were established when the law was passed. I have submitted an amendment that provides for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Servants to come into force, as is prescribed by the Constitution, on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The constitution is perfectly clear - laws, other regulations and general acts can take effect even earlier than otherwise prescribed, so before the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but only if there are particularly justified reasons. I did not get the impression from Mr. Markovic's statement that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Those who are lawyers can recognize the nuances of the Constitution. The constitution does not say "justified reasons", but "particularly justified reasons". So the constitution raises justification to a far greater degree. It is necessary that the reasons are particularly justified. I can only assume what the founder had in mind when he formulated such a provision. Maybe he thought that in case the law didn't come into force before the eighth day, there would be some serious consequences for the security of the state. The functioning of the state apparatus may be compromised, perhaps severe consequences may arise for the lives and health of people or property of greater value. Something terrible may happen that requires that the law enters into force earlier, but I did not hear, at least I did not understand from Mr. Markovic's statement that anything terrible would happen. I've only heard that it's about 380, Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, public officials who need to be placed in positions and nothing else. I do not see that this will result in some particularly difficult consequences for the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I'm going to take this opportunity to remind you of what I've already said about this speaker several times. For several years, the Serbian government has been practicing that whenever the deadlines it is due to comply with, that is, to apply the laws it has proposed itself, the Serbian government comes to the sense that it is proposing to the National Assembly a law on amendments and amendments to the law in the sense of prolonging the application of a law. It represents playing with the legal system, it violates the authority of the state government. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that in 2005, it was the Serbian Government who proposed not only the Civil Service Act, but a whole series of other public law laws, which were then announced by the Ministers and then and the current Prime Minister as spectacular laws, as laws that would bring us closer to European integrations, such as reform laws, democratic laws, laws that represent a break-up with some dark past, etc. The Serbian government itself has proposed a law. She committed herself to certain deadlines. No one made her do that. It wasn't the opposition who proposed the law, so the government imposed a deadline that she objectively couldn't meet. The law was passed in this assembly in September 2005, entered into force on July 1, 2006, now on July 5, 2007. You have now come to the National Assembly to ask the National Assembly to extend the deadline for your application of the Law on Civil Servants for May 1, 2008. It's playing with the law, with the legal system. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that even ordinary people who are not ministers, are not prime ministers, have no immunity, in everyday life are burdened by certain deadlines. Those deadlines have to be respected. If they don't respect the deadlines, they have consequences under the law. Don't pay taxes, don't settle any other taxes to the state, let some contract they signed with the Contracting Party don't respect the deadline that the contract provides, so you'll see what happens. But Serbian citizens don't have a body to come and say -- you know, gentlemen, we can't meet that deadline for those and those reasons, so let's extend it for another year. An ordinary man doesn't have that kind of opportunity. The Serbian government has given itself the opportunity. This is only one in a series of laws for which the Serbian government proposes a delayed application. I don't know why you're doing this. No one made you propose the laws that you knew about back then. I am convinced that you knew in September 2005 that you had no personnel, financial, organisational and other opportunities to apply the entire set of laws in practice. Then I really don't understand why you've proposed such laws, or why you've formulated those deadlines. Actually, I know. You didn't pass these laws to apply them in life, so that the citizens of Serbia would be better off, you actually wanted to blur the eyes of your foreign mentors and say -- you know, we're Europeans because we have European laws. We have the Civil Service Act, which guarantees that civil servants are depoliticized. We have the Government Act, which is also reform law, democratic law. We have a law on public agencies, where you don't even know what public agencies are. You have a whole series of government bodies that only exist on paper. They're gone in life. You have a whole series of such agencies. I don't want to burden the MPs with some professional analysis, but if you insist, I can talk about it. You have a whole series of administration bodies that you've formed completely without any need. A bunch of state appliances, a bunch of employees, you're giving away huge financial resources to fund these bodies and agencies that don't work in life. Just so you could, when the head of the OSCE mission, the American ambassador, someone else from the West, say -- well, you know, we're compatible with European legislation, we have the law on this, the law on this, we have this organ, that agency, and in practice, in life, it doesn't exist at all. It exists only on paper, and Serbia's citizens are simply not better off, nor can they be better off. I have to look back, if Mr. Chairman allows me, and Mrs. Hope Kolundji's amendment. The amendment is thus controversial from the constitutional aspect that I cannot without taking this opportunity to say a few words about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of retroactivity has been raised here. Retroactivity is such a situation when laws... (the ambassadors are getting out of the O.R.)... Easy, sir, don't be nervous. (President: Please allow the speaker, he has the right 15 minutes per amendment, and we must enable him to do so. ) Use what the MPs of the SRS have argued, so you can learn something. Therefore, retroactiveness is such a situation where the laws and other general acts regulate certain situations that occurred before the law entered into force. Retroactivity is also a constitutional category. Serbia's constitution says laws, other regulations and general acts can have a retroactive, i.e. a feedback, but only if it requires general interest. I've already said there's no such thing as general interest. But, you see, Mrs. Hope Kolundji's amendment actually suggests something that's more than retroactive. So this does not regulate the situation that occurred in the past, but the amendment reads - in Article 3 of the Law on Amendments to the Law on civil servants, instead of the point, it places a decimal and adds "except for Article 2.", which takes effect on 1 July 2007. It's an amendment, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, in the Office filed on July 4th, 2007. The law was due to be applied at the latest on July 1st 2007. Imagine the situation to say tomorrow, if the chairman determines that tomorrow is the day for the vote, we adopt the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants, he will enter into force, if he votes tomorrow, on Saturday, if it is adopted as proposed, and that he will enter into force, imagine, the provision of Article 2. Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants on 1 July 2007. This is a legally impossible situation. The amendment does not have a constitutional basis, it is legally impossible. We are discussing things that are not permitted from the viewpoint of the Constitution and the law, but legal logic simply imposes upon us that such an amendment cannot live in life. I don't know who's in the interest of playing with the National Assembly. You, Mr. Minister, could have overcome this situation in a far more elegant way, but you don't want to. You don't want to listen to the opinion of the SRS and any representative of the opposition, you think that only you have lawyers, that you're the only experts, that only you know everything, and that we who sit here on the right have nothing. We've shown in the past few days that we know a lot more than you do. Mr. Minister, I'm really asking you to stop this practice one more time. It is not a good view of the state of Serbia, it is not good for the functioning of the legal system to propose to us on Sundays laws that delay the application of the law itself by the government. I also heard that argument made by Mr. Minister and other Democratic Party leaders, they say -- you know, 2005 and 2004, when all these laws were proposed, we weren't in the government. Mr. Minister, by entering the second government of Vojislav Kostunica, you became the successors of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was established in 2004. As with any inheritance, not only rights are inherited, but obligations are inherited. The fact that you weren't physically involved in that government, the fact that you were an opposition at the time, that doesn't justify you. You have knowingly entered the government, which in 2005, at least as far as this law is concerned, has taken over certain obligations and by entering that government, you have also taken over those obligations. You can't get rid of those obligations by saying -- you know, we weren't in the government at the time. We don't care. By entering the government, you took over the burden of power, and the burden of the government, among other things, implies that you are obliged to fulfil the obligations proposed by the earlier government. As the burden of the authorities also implies, the majority of the assembly is the one that must provide the majority in both the Legislative Committee and all other committees. It's not the duty of the opposition, it's the duty of the government. If you wanted power, then take that burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4325	Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4326	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I would like some things to be definitely explained, because the question is how could the Administrative Committee have made such a decision. In order to inform you that normally, as chairman of the Administrative Board, I came to the session, and otherwise, at the beginning of the work of the Administrative Board, the ruling majority was distracted in order to provide the majority for the Committee's work. I suppose all the bill proposals that come from the government are in advance in the majority that was formed to form the government and the minimum that is expected of that majority is to secure the quorum. Unfortunately, you too are the chairman of the witness since you are a member of the Administrative Board, but five or six sessions of the Committee have been cancelled so far, or have not been held because the ruling majority is unable to secure the quorum as well as at this time. I don't know if Serbian citizens can see it, but there are 47 MPs on the screen, and not from the government, there are much fewer of them here, but there are therefore seats left behind. Don't take it out now, Hope, not now. He's got them. I'd like those cameras to show, say here in the third row. It's not like that situation now when you voted from Thessaloniki, Bodrum, etc. There are only 22 of you. Then imagine the situation on the boards. You did not have the opportunity to hold a session of the Administrative Board because you are unable to provide the majority. I'm simply asking you a question, you can do whatever you want here, you've been doing it for the past seven years, but I assume you're clear that in the end, everything is going on. You can't do this kind of violence against the Rules of Procedure, against the law. Pull out that card to calm Hope, she's been standing there for an hour and a while. Here's what you're ready for. You're cheating...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4327	During the working day, the quorum doesn't count. We open work day in the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4328	You know, Mr. Albianic, it's terrible that you, as the chairman, were obliged by the Rules of Procedure to call on the MP's card to take it out, and you're violating the Rules of Procedure and you're warning me and you're criticizing me because I'm warning of this kind of fraud you're serving. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4329	Mr. Todorovic, there is another problem: is your card in the parliamentary unit? Are you present here today?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4330	Mr. Albian, I'm going to suspect something that I think you have in part. We took out the parliamentary IDs to make fun of you, to show what the work of this congregation looks like and how you behave in the congregation. Let me finish with the Administrative Committee. Since there was no quorum, I waited, not academic 15 minutes but 20 minutes, to leave the session and the authority of the Deputy Administrative Board, Mr. Peter Cvetkovic, otherwise the lawyer, had no moment to question him, I could not have authorized him. It's been 20 minutes, no quorum, done. I've been waiting, if the session had started, I'd have turned my attention immediately that we on the Administrative Board couldn't decide on the draft of this law. We can't. We just can't. You can put whatever you want, but it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. You had such a chance when it was the Government Act, when we convinced you that by constitutional law you couldn't do it. I left the board session, in the meantime I guess it's true that you got the quorum, I guess that's true, but Mr. Cvetkovic could only do one thing, saying that we can't discuss this bill. Unfortunately, you are prepared to break both the laws and the Rules of Procedure. The Management Board made that decision because the Legislative Committee, which was responsible, had no session. Minister, I'm just asking how you'll feel if you continue this session and pass this law in this way. Then you don't need the laws at all. Why are you wasting your time, both yours and ours, for any proposal, anything you need, and so far you've been doing it, to the government, regulation after regulation, and you finish the job? You will break the laws and the constitution by making regulations, but at least you will avoid embarrassing yourself in this way in front of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4331	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to say in the shortest lines my view of the arguments that were heard in this debate, although there have been many more policies than there have been discussions on these few proposed amendments to the Law on Civil Servants, which is understandable. Normally, laws are not only professional matter, but they reflect the policy and needs of the state. I want to make a few points. So, really, as far as I've been following these six or seven years, as I've been a National MP, as vice president of the National Assembly, as well as the work of the National Assembly, and as far as I'm aware of the Rules of Procedure, unless something has changed recently, in the last 15 days, I don't see what kind of business obstacles have taken place so that we don't debate this law today. Is it better to have the Committee's opinions? It's better. Is it better... Let me, it's not okay, you're the vice president of the National Assembly now. I was, too. I don't know if you've ever heard of me throwing. It's not pleasant to talk in the atmosphere when someone throws you both ahead and back. I don't understand what's going on in the process? It would be much better if the procedure were different, but someone prefers to be at the bar than in an O.R. where certain committees or commissions work, and I can't change things. Everyone has the right to boycott the work of any committee. When you boycott work, by logic things can occur with a lack of quorum. Also, I can't see that there's an obstacle to the number of MPs in the hall for the work of the National Assembly. So, from three years ago, since the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, it is completely irrelevant how many MPs there are, the cards in the parliamentary benches. The fact is again, it would be much nicer for me as a minister to speak to 250 MPs, but I know 250 MPs are not here in the O.R., and that's it. (President: Please calm down and listen to the minister. Thank you. ) With this I answer directly to the questions referred to me from the pay phone and from the post, do I feel that there are any business interferences to carry out this debate. So, I'm undermining, there's no business interference to conduct the debate, I'm answering your question. I think it's correct on my part to answer when you ask me a question, unless you think you should ask questions, and when I go out for a pay phone to pretend like you didn't ask me anything. If that's an idea, tell me before, whisper to me in passing. I would now like to say something concrete about the provisions of the law and the objections relating to the date 1 July 2006, and 1 July 2007, and 1 May 2008. The first thing I'm saying is that Mrs. Hope Kolundji's amendment was filed with the June 29th date, and that the amendment was subsequently followed, instead of the decimal going stuck, etc. So, the amendment was seduced by 29. Six. In 2007, then when it became apparent that the law would not be passed by 1 July 2007. Now we have this dilemma, or questionable question of whether there is any general interest here, or in this case, we already have the general interest in giving a retroactive fact to some provision of the law. It is now a simple matter of the National Assembly to decide. The National Assembly is the one, according to the Constitution, who decides on the existence of such an interest. My opinion as Minister is that there is a general interest in this case and I will explain why you should support Mrs. Hope Kolundzie's amendment and why you should vote in favour of this law. So, as we have repeatedly repeated, the law entered into force on 1 July 2005. For various reasons, the previous government failed to implement the new law by 1 July 2007. True, we must consider that since 14 February she has not been able to do so, in accordance with the provisions of the Government Act, which was passed before the Law on Civil Servants. We are now in one situation that unless we apply Mrs. Hope Kolundzhija's amendment, July 1st, 2007, all of these faces we're talking about will be terminated. When we talk about these faces, we don't talk about them that ad personam, Petrovic Petar. It doesn't matter the name and name of a man, we're not talking about employment, this isn't about employment. We are talking about people who perform the duties of the Civil Service Act, Articles 32 and 33, set out as duties of special importance. So they're body managers, responsible for work, harmonising work, having special responsibilities under the law, signing certain acts, like the Republic Public Advocate. If we accepted your position to stop everyone's duties in 2007, or if we didn't introduce retroactiveness, we would ask a logical question: what about all what the Republic public defender did after that date, whether or not it could qualify. Then it is my opinion that there is an interest of the state to accept this retroactiveity as not only an act of the Republic Public Advocate, but also many other acts would not be questioned or advertised by nothing, because the interest of the State is evident that the state continues to function. There is no dilemma that if 380 positions remain without the possibility that the functioning of the state is compromised. My opinion is that it's more than obvious. I don't see how else we can interpret the termination of their duty. If the duty has ceased, the duty has ceased. We can disagree on that, I'm just saying my argument, and I have to say, there's no need to make such an assumption that someone thinks you don't know something. I believe that your discussions are very professional and it is my pleasure to exchange arguments on these issues. Overall, it is very dynamic to be in the role of minister in front of certain MPs. So it's undeniable that this is now just a political assessment. I understand MPs of the opposition who have a political assessment that points to criticism of the government's work and criticism of the work of the previous government, that is completely understandable. But I can't make it as an axiom to your political assessment. Political assessment is a matter of political conviction, but determining the general interest is neither yours nor my business. It's my job to try to convince the National Assembly that there is a general interest here, I think there is a general interest in the state, that the state continues to function, you think it's not a general interest and I accept that you all have your opinions, but that's what the National Assembly will decide. Do not replace the thesis and say that there are some rightful inability for us to decide today on this or on that, or that there is a concrete violation of the Constitution, the law, or regulations concerning this National Assembly. The same argument that the law was to enter into force without that eight-day deadline, which is necessary for the general act to enter into force. The same argument is true here. The change is so much so that the deadline of July 1st, 2007 and that the provisions of Article 3 have passed. The bill is becoming unnecessary and in that sense your amendment has become unnecessary. Finally, there were several political observations concerning depoliticalisation, etc. So we've defined ourselves, as a state, for a single system. As a minister, as a citizen of the state, I must agree and respect the laws that exist here, the previous ruling majority has passed one law defining itself for this system of civil servants. I can tell if I like it or not, but it's totally unnecessary at this point. The law provides that to the level of assistant ministers are professionals, beyond the level of assistant ministers are politicians, political furniture is being replaced, ministerial assistants and downs stay as state officials in positions, and other civil servants are perpetrators and deputies. So the opportunity, if someone disagrees, is to express it through a change in the law, through the formation of a political majority, the parliamentary majority that will lead to a change of the whole system, but at this point we have only changes on the agenda within the existing system, and in that sense, the evaluation of the system, in my opinion, is too early to be that, maybe we can wait two or three years and say -- it's a good system, we're on the right path, or we're going to say -- it's the wrong system. For now, this looks like a good basis to me, and whether we, like in many other things, are going to spoil it or not, it's another topic. In a normative sense, I believe that this law is good, as regards the political idea it carries, I also think that it is good, as you do not know, no one can know, because the law has not yet practically experienced its application and will not experience its application in full scope until it passes the appointment of civil servants according to these provisions that we are trying to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4333	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is already becoming an insolence. This really offends the intelligence of all of us here. Using the right to ask a question under Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I ask the President - is Mr Milan Markovic here an MP or minister? It's been seven days now, people are talking very competently about a very bad bill. The minister talks about the Rules of Procedure all the time, about how MPs should behave, what they need to talk about, whether what they're saying is nice or not nice, etc. It's already, Mr. Minister, overcome. Mr. Chairman or tell Mr. President to hold a meeting with the ministers and warn them. The MPs can't be offended, and this is an insult to the MPs. It is theirs to defend the proposed solutions and laws. There are enough, 120-130 MPs who can and should discuss it. Mr. Minister, what was your job, to convince us of the correctness of these changes, you haven't convinced us, you haven't convinced anyone, and you're going to have a lot of trouble with the professional public to clear yourself up. You know there's no one to initiate the constitutional procedure, because there's no constitutional court. And you are not offering us a law that not only applies, Mr. Martinovic explained it very clearly here, not that we are offered a shorter period of application, the next day, but we are offered back. I'm asking you, did July 1st stop the work of those who were in the business? The second question, Mr. Markovic, if tomorrow or when there is a vote not to vote this law, what are the consequences, what will happen, will the Government fall? What's gonna happen to these people? These are the questions that you were supposed to answer here, not to engage in a controversy from the corner from which MPs engage, and that's their right. In the end, you wanted to politicize the administration and all your arguments are going towards defending in the wrong way the total politicization of the administration, putting your people in all positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4335	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4336	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Minister, kids in kindergartens are sleeping at this time, and your closing word was groundless, there was no one to listen to, and it was directed to that level of listeners. So you tried to convince us that there was a general interest in making the law come as soon as possible. Now let's talk straight. When will be the day to vote on this law. It will only take five or six days, it is such a general interest, it is so urgent that the law is passed and that it will come into effect immediately after its adoption in the Assembly and after its publication in the Official Messenger, and the day of the vote, ask what it is pretending to be, the day for the vote won't be another five days. Let's move on, Mr. Minister. (President: Mr. Nikolic, do not insult the chairman. I'm not pretending, I'm chairing the truth. ) Here, I insult you, if you schedule a voting day today at 4:00 p.m. means I offended you. If you move that deadline, then I didn't insult you, then whatever I tell you is no longer an insult. Let's move on. You warned us that since July 1st, even the public defender has signed some resolutions and that we now need to retroactively, about July 12th, in the voting day, to pass a law that will justify what the unauthorized and against the law of July 1st sign, say, the Republic Public Advocate. Is there a state for that? Is this government just retroactively making decisions or has some vision of what's going to be up ahead? What gives you the right to tell us that today some civil servant, who does not have the right to do so under the law, is making solutions concerning Serbian citizens. Imagine a Serbian citizen who listened to you as you spoke your closing word and who said -- so today's solution was signed by someone who hasn't been authorized since 1 July 2007. But my Democrats are good, they'll retroactively give me the right to this state official retroactively, to sign what he's already signed. Look at the mess you're in, Mr. Minister. Forget this behavior, Boris Tadic -- me, as president of the state. He looks very funny too, and let's face it, you -- me, as a minister. What kind of minister, who justifies the moves of Vojislav Kostunica, who was attacked until 15 days ago by just for this non-compliance of the law. I can't imagine your dream. People don't sleep because of the full moon, and you, Mr. Markovic, and because you're a minister. That's what I'm convinced of. This wasn't about you defending, this was supposed to be the secretary of legislation, if the government had one, and I hear there's still one, and it's the same man that was, to come and defend. He wasn't in that government. You have been told that you want to be a minister, to continue the government that ruled before you, to take over everything that the government has done, all positive, all negative, and that's a negative failure to comply with the law. You've entered the government with a party that the laws aren't interested in at all. You've entered the government with a party that's pushing you to reverse and now you've come out to justify to me how it has to be. It was very embarrassing to listen to this debate, Mr. Minister, and to you, and to us as normal people. You'd better shut up the whole debate, wait till you see what the MPs will do, and what the MPs have done, it's over. As soon as the law is published, we write a play to the Constitutional Court, indicating the way the law was passed, the deadlines laid down in the law, and the procedure conducted in the National Assembly. We'll see if we'll finally have decent lawyers in the Constitution who will say, "It can't be like this," or if it's still gonna be -- I, you, to me, got Kurt to ride Murt, to go to Chiplic, and someone to say, "I, like the judge of the Constitutional Court, for example, Milan Markovic, can do that now," say. God forbid you come to that function in a party way, it's really a mess. I accept this that you have come to the office of Minister, which is not at all appropriate to you, but to move on, not when I ask you. Not only will we not vote for this law, we will appear in the hall when it is voting day, but this will be the basis of our political struggle against this coalition. You don't respect the Constitution, you don't respect the Constitutional Law to enforce the Constitution. There is no first meeting for you after the government's election, not the second, not the third, not the fourth, you do whatever you want, you justify everything that has been done past the Constitution by loading it into the Assembly. Neither is this assembly of "syrmic donkeys" as they say at my place in Leskovec. Not everything, so they say in Leskovec, "sydney donkey", because not everything can be loaded into the Assembly, take a little responsibility yourself, don't just pass on your responsibilities to the MPs. And to threaten them, if you don't want to vote for this, you don't want to be an MP, there's no salary of 1,500 euros, what is the pay now? Some of you are ashamed of what you're doing, but think carefully, this year there will be choices and choices, topics and topics, just packing us a file of your indiscipline, inconsistencies and inconsistencies. So we're waiting for you, finish this, which we don't care how you end up with, we've still got some damage to the Rules of Procedure, and then we're waiting for you to discuss Kosovo and discuss the government. Well, then read the skin on the spike you, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4337	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4338	Mr Albianic, Article 104. Mr. Markovic, as minister, may have committed the most serious injury to the member. He went out for this pay phone and started acting like he was at a DOS parliamentary group meeting. I don't argue that when you have meetings of your MPs' groups, put MPs in the O.R., then someone comes out in front of the DS and starts threatening. In internal circles and internal communication, you have to be in the O.R., you have to vote for this, you have to keep quiet, you can't be like this, you have to be like this. You have no right to speak to all the MPs in the National Assembly. You, as a representative of the government, should make a statement about the arguments you have heard here, of course, in the way it begins and ends with your jurisdiction. Whether there was a quorum in the work of a committee, you don't know it, and you don't need to know, in the end, but you're not here to explain how a quorum is made and you're not here to explain what an emergency procedure is. You are here to explain, as a representative of the Government, what you have stated in Article 1 and why you do not accept amendments to Article 1, what you have written in Article 2, why you do not accept amendments to Article 2 etc, from the first to the last member of your proposal, because you have come with that paper and there is defined what you need to talk about. Just because you were once vice president of the National Assembly and believed to know how it is done in the National Assembly, what relationships, what relationships they are, doesn't mean that you as a minister, as a representative of the Government, should bring it up. Furthermore, the fact is that after what you say is the bad government of Vojislav Kostunica and an episode called the technical character of that same government, we have now come up with something called a new-old government. In fact, it has been the DOS government since 25 January 2001. You have some internal relations at the government's session, but when you're unique, not when you're in segments, discuss these things. But it's not acceptable for us for you to come out here and say, we find the general interest in the fact that it went through July 1st, and you know it from September 2005 to July 1st this year, someone didn't follow this law. We're calling the government. What's the aggregate form of this government? I don't care. I just know it's the greatest flow of democracy. They gave themselves a year and a half to finish it all. You didn't finish, not because of the complicated provisions of the law, but because you couldn't agriculturally negotiate what it belonged to. And this technical government would have done the job if the election results were different. However, the SPO had to be expelled. Look, don't raise your internal problems to the level of general problem, the general problem, and find in your personal problems a general interest that would bind us all, don't. Secondly, take a little constitution, you voted for that constitution. Read these provisions concerning retroactiveness and early entry into force before the eighth day of publication. You've come out here with charades, some stories, what the Republic public defender is going to do, what is the character of his acts he signs, etc. You're complaining to me? Why are you complaining to me? I will not cooperate with you in your pain. I'm here to move you, so you won't be in power anymore, to remove you from power, and you're asking me to cooperate with you. Why would I give you a shoulder to cry on? No, I want to get you out of power, because in all segments you're destroying the state. That's my mission here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4339	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My predecessors have already said it is not the minister's duty to comment on whether the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured or not, why the session of the Legislative Committee has not been held, why there was no quorum, who is an MP, etc. I have no doubt that Mr. Markovic is an intelligent and reasonable man, I believe that he himself does not believe what he just said. He said this under one political obligation, just to say something, because he knows very well what it says in the Serbian Constitution, he knows what retroactivity is. When it came to Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija's amendment, I am sorry that she is not here right now, it was said by the chairman that the amendment was submitted on 29 June, and that the correction was filed on 4 July 2007, and that is indeed true. What's the readjustment? Here, to meet the MPs of the people, he says, in Article 3. The bill's proposal instead of "point" is placed "stirred" and the words "except for Article 2, which enters into force on 1 July 2007. Correction shall be made for a formal editing of the text of the amendment. The only correction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that instead of the word "point" the word is stuck. It wasn't long ago when I left the school benches, so I remember the Serbian language class, in 1954 a newly-sed agreement of Serbian and Croatian linguists was reached that the Croats would accept our word point, and we would accept their word comma. Unfortunately, or fortunately, it didn't happen. That's how things got old. If this is the only essence of the amendment to turn the word comma into a word stuck, then I really don't understand what the legal meaning of this amendment is. I'm distracting Mr. Minister, this isn't even about retroactivity, this is a phenomenon far more dangerous than retroactivity. If tomorrow is the best-case voting day, and if the law is published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia on Saturday, that means that the National Assembly will adopt the law, let's say tomorrow, and that it will enter into force on 1 July 2007. Well, it's impossible, in the legal theory, at least I didn't hear about it, that one law came into force first, and only after that was passed. You can't take the time back, it's never occurred to anyone before. So I'm telling you, Mr. Minister, once again, don't play with dangerous things. Retroactivity is highly permissible. You know, like me, that rightly there is one rule of interpretation that exceptions should be interpreted closely. By interpreting this, you are more opening the door to the arbitrary application of the retroactiveness institute and even something far more dangerous than retroactiveness. As for the civil servants who took place on July 1st, 2007... (President: Time, Mr. Martinovic. )... Here I am ending, out of duty, I think that they could automatically sue the Republic of Serbia, or the Government for the harmful consequences they will suffer if their working relationship eventually ceases, because the Serbian government is most responsible for the fact that the Law on Civil Servants on July 1st 2007 has not been applied. No one else is to blame, but the Serbian government is to blame, and if these civil servants suffer any damage because of this, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia will be responsible for the government's mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4341	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of Section 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are here today to witness a lot of negative phenomena caused by the minister, but also by the ruling majority. It would have been better if they had listened to Mr Nikolic's proposal when he suggested the first day of the debate to withdraw this law, which is unconstitutional, and now there would be no problems. Unfortunately, the explanations come down to exactly what my colleague Martinovic said: what to do, we didn't know, we don't have a solution. Now these people who are civil servants will suffer the consequences because no one has thought of them before, so they remembered that a retroactive law is passed, which, in addition to being problematic on the constitutional-law side, can bring many other harmful consequences. As for the Committee and everything that has been said about the majority, it is just sad that we know that the ruling majority has changed the business provisions and that two committees can sit here, and that we still have a session of the Assembly, this leads to bad consequences in this National Assembly and its reputation in the eyes of citizens. This is exactly why it can happen, as we read in the press one minister comes out and says, yes, I was recently in the National Assembly, and I hope I won't have to go there again soon. Let me remind you, this minister here, when he was the Budget Law, the most important system law this assembly passed, sat 11 and a half minutes in front of the assembly benches, so important to him was the budget, 11 and a half minutes, and then came out and said, hopefully, I'm almost not going to have to go there. In this way, the reputation of the National Assembly is ensnared. This institution, in which unfortunately it is possible to sit two MPs and have enough quorum, thus losing its reputation in its work. It would be much better if the majority MPs had at least as much as they do in the Serbian Radical Party's hall now, so that would make sense. But I know they don't care. This whole law, which has been proposed, loses its meaning and, when you look at the fact of what Mr Nikolic was saying, the reasons for the adoption mean urgency, and the day for the vote will probably be set until next week. The ruling majority cannot gather 126 MPs, who are now either scrambling at sea or on their way or who knows where, but are not in the National Assembly. Why retroactivity, why speed, why urgency, and we don't have the opportunity to vote on it, or to plead as urgently. It would be better for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, as parliaments of many other countries are discussing this, important international institutions, and only the Republic of Serbia is silent, or parliament is not having a debate on the now perhaps most important issue for the survival of the Republic of Serbia. If we really want to show that we want to protect our country's territorial integrity, to protect constitutional order and our territory, it would be better if everyone behaves in that spirit, that ministers don't go to Polt's reception and stand still, that it line them up, while at the same time pushing for the secession of our part of the territory, rather than coming into these benches and sitting in the front row, to start a debate on Kosovo and Metohija, and thus to show what's better for the citizens of Serbia and what's better for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4343	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4344	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is obvious, Mr. Minister, that you and the government of Vojislav Kostunica thought that with three members of the amendment of the law, you would in some way fool the MPs and we would experience, like, come on, those three members, what's there to deal with? We today two days ago, when we discussed in the principle debate we are trying to distract you with extreme well-meaning and extreme honesty, and don't let this law be passed. You have no right, Minister, to determine the conditions for retroactiveness, it does not say in the Constitution. Minister Milan Markovic cannot determine when it is and what it is of general interest when the law should be applied retroactively. It is true, Mr. Todorovic, until we have the minister installed in the Constitution, but it is not installed and therefore cannot be built in so far. My colleague, Mr Martinovic, said perfectly what the problem is and why this law must not be adopted, and said that all civil servants who have no solutions from July 1st will be able to sue the state of Serbia, which is true, and will be able to receive a certain fee. But, you know, we're used to paying DOS mistakes out of the state register, out of the pockets of Serbian citizens. You know well that even now the courts are making decisions according to the lawsuits of people who have been arrested, so no action has been conducted against them and now they get big money, and they should get it, and no one is responsible for it, and they get money from Serbian citizens. But I want to ask you something else, Mr. Minister: what's going to happen to the acts brought by those people who haven't been in these jobs since July 1st; what's going to happen to those acts they signed? You've made them falsely present themselves, you've forced them to commit abuse of position, they can answer for it. I am now informing Serbian citizens, if they have any problems with an act, which is signed by someone who is not at the job, that they can freely sue him, because these people stopped working on June 30th of this year, by law enforcement. They continue to work, convinced that the Assembly will pass a law that is unconstitutional. When it's gonna be, you don't know. The chairman doesn't know when the voting day will be. We will have again, dear citizens of Serbia, a break of a few days. We don't know why. Well, then when that congregation majority is gathered, I guess we'll do it again for 24 hours, so they can do their job as soon as possible, so they can break up anywhere. Indeed, such inconclusiveness and such irresponsibility have not been remembered. You're worse than yourself from those first days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-05-0.u4345	Okay, I'm concluding a review of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on the sole agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the day of the vote, you will be later informed. We're finishing today's work. Thank you very much.
