ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14709	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miletic Mihajlovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Privatization (sumption in details) The amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalović to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, it is extremely unacceptable that none of the ministers attend the session, and yesterday they changed here as on hockey shifts. No Mr. Bubal, no Mr. Dinkic, no Mr. Djelic. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 4(3), as the legislator proposes too strict rules to launch the liquidation of privatisation entities, and should allow better conditions for the privatisation of social ones, i.e. State capital. You rejected the amendment on the grounds that if the entity is not sold even after the third auction, that entity is not attractive and should be allowed access to liquidation. You further explain the refusal of amendments that if the entity has not submitted the annual financial report in a row for two years, it will also be subject to liquidation. Is it possible in Serbia, in addition to this tax administration, which you say is effective, some economic operator does not submit official financial reports to the National Bank of Serbia. So neither does the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. The management of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the tax administration, cannot monitor the adoption of a set of tax laws. Why wouldn't the auction procedure take place after 31. 12. 2008? Normally, only for those entities that haven't been privatized by then. For workers of these companies, everything is better than the liquidation procedure. I have to go back to Article 3, where you suggested that a circle of people who can't be customers, it's normal that customers can't be convicted of various serious crimes committed, but the worst thing that you can do now before an auction or a public tender can file a criminal complaint against a competitor and thus eliminate him from further privatisation. A series of abuses or inaccuracies or defects arising from this article occur. When you want to, in your opinion, prevent money from being in the service of buying privatization entities, why didn't you predict another crime, which is the betrayal of the country and receiving a cash prize from certain Western countries for a five-octobaric coup. This is best known by the resistances who have received money from abroad and should certainly not participate in the privatisation process, at least on your proposal. Then a criminal offence for the introduction of an anti-constitutional emergency in 2003 in Serbia and active participation in the conduct of the emergency. You have refused my colleagues' amendments to Buha and Martinovic with an explanation that Article 346. The criminal code defines the so-called so-called code. A criminal association. I have a member of 346. The criminal code and nothing in it about criminal association. Perhaps the 6th position in this Article 346 should be added to that – criminal association to break the Serbian financial system and economy of 5. Ten. 2001. Do you recognize any candidates for prison sanctions for this crime? I certainly: Milosavljevic, Dinkic, Cvetkovic, but on this path. You give these members the opportunity to crocodiles in a small bar of blood to each other, but that's your problem. Here's an example, Bozidar Djelic, through his firm, has charged over 400,000 euros for the deployment of information technologies in the Energy Project. All of this wouldn't be interesting if the Energy Project didn't have its own Energogate company, which deals with these affairs, but not at the parent company of the Energy Project. Imagine now unfortunate God, God forbid, criminal charges are being filed against him by Mr. Vlahovic and "Eki Investment" and eliminated from the privatisation of the Energy Project, and Boza remains short for another few million euros of action in the Energy Project. You agree, it would be inadmissible, but that's your problem. Yesterday, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in an attempt to answer questions from my distinguished counterpart, Natasa Jovanovic, about the launch of an international tender for the privatisation of the flag from Kragujevac, said something incredible, or at least changed the programme, and that his party, G17, still does not know. Here's what he said, I'll paraphrase. That second-placed in the tender will get the opportunity to open a greenfield plant in Serbia in the area of auto-industry, explaining that auto-industry is a productive activity that employs a large number of workers and is profitable. So far, at least until yesterday, Minister Dinkic has kept saying that nothing should be produced in Serbia, that services should be forced. Now he's changing the program all of a sudden. I think Mr Dinkic has also started an election campaign, but as Mr Dinkic leads a small party of G17, and they do not have a candidate for the presidential election, the worst part is that he openly supports Boris Tadic. It won't take long either. The G17 will be disappointed, according to them, by election results, when Tomislav Nikolic will win in Serbia on January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14711	I thank Parliamentarian Zdravko Topalovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No,) National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Suzana Grubjesic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The government and the Privatisation Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to take the opportunity to speak about the amendment to Article 6 submitted by Mr Veroljub Arsic, to ask for the reply of the Minister, the National Assembly, and, above all, to the citizens of Serbia and the public, to clarify the essence of the amendment to Article 6 submitted by Veroljub Arsic, as well as the amendment submitted to article 6 by Ms Susana Grubjesic. I'm looking for a detailed response from the Ministry, because the citizens, and I, too, believe that this is a fraud. Why? The amendment to Article 5, which adds 5a, which was recently announced to have become an integral part of the law, changes a significant part of the law that speaks of restructuring, even changes one member, a member of the 19th law, which is not subject to amendments to this law. If a opposition party had done so, the amendment would have been rejected, because, behold, it is not the subject of a change proposed by the government, a change of law. But when it amends to Article 6, later on 8th and this 5th, or where 5a is added, MP G17 plus, to a bill whose initiator is on behalf of the Government, someone who explains on behalf of the Government, the minister from G17 plus, then that is a significant issue. What is the essence of these changes? Articles 20, and further, of the Privatisation Act speak of the discharge of debt during restructuring. These amendments were passed in 2005. In her proposal, the government went to some minor changes in more technical character. These amendments fundamentally amend the law. How? Here, you see, those who are obliged to release the debt while the restructuring process is under way, until privatisation is completed or, as it ends, they can settle their claims after the sale of capital or property. The amendments proposed and subsequently adopted by the government are deleted by the assets. It remains that they can settle their claims from the capital, which, by the way, is not available. What's going on? It's Sartide. Sartide to sell for $23 million, with all other debts fired. In order not to be in a situation where people ask these questions, I ask the minister to explain the essence of these changes. And we're against it. In the end, the law says the same about changes and privatisation supplements in Article 12 that it is the subject of the sale of enterprises that are in the restructuring of capital or property. It's all about sales. Why can't the trustees settle down from all this? Why would trustees be damaged if this variant remained to be met only by capital, it was gone. We have fresh examples in Belgrade. In Belgrade, the most interesting privatisations were those that ended by cleaning up the company of everything and selling property. Here's a fresh example of Belgrade Robing Houses. The property was sold, about the workers, of course, who were always killed when it comes to privatisation, the buyer says -- we didn't buy the workers, we didn't buy any obligations, we bought the property. Southexport, here's another example. For seven years, it has been the restructuring of the "Dimitrija Tucovic" sugar factory, the first Serbian sugar factory, and is still in the process. Of course, if I didn't tell you the details now, there was no way to complete the privatisation process, because there was no board of directors. For many years, the board of directors was waiting to be appointed, which should verify these privatisation documents. In half of 2006, it was formed, and then since its formation, as is usually done when it comes to restructuring, does not make it a process to allow everything that the law says what should be done when a company is restructured, but rather goes towards bankruptcy. Who's gonna get hurt again? Workers and property. What happens next? By decision of the Privatisation Agency, without a shred of appeal to the responsibility of the agency that has been doing so for so long, it abolishes company restructuring in mid-2007, naturally exposes its creditors, points to bankruptcy. But I want to point out one thing that can be obvious. It's obvious that it's a setup for the purchase of attractive building land. Do you know where the "Dimitry Tucovic" sugar factory is? The Belgrade centre, on the street, used to be called Radnica, as this government exchanged all the streets in Belgrade, I don't know what it's called anymore, across the street from Ade. The company's property status is not great. When looked at at at first sight, because it has a debt to creditors over 30m euros. It is not disputed, but what is controversial here and why I ask for this question to be clarified: it is disputed that the company has 7.5 ha in that location. That's the triple value of these debts he has, and that's the property. It's not going to be possible, if it stays like this, to live up to the trust. This is 7.5 ha, and in Padinska Skela 102 ha with all the equipment. So, big domestic tycoons, we've had a chance to see the affected bankruptcy, will have a chance to get to a very attractive land. Who's gonna get hurt? The workers will suffer, as they have otherwise suffered in the stores, and in all these other companies that have restructured themselves. So, capital, it's gone or small. The property's huge, and it's proposed that trustees first release the debt, it imposes on them the law, and then when the whole process is over, they can collect their claims, but only from capital they don't have. I also warn the Assembly and the public, this is one big fraud, and at the very least I ask the Minister of Public Affairs to explain the essence of this change in government policy, the government's approach from ten days ago and two days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14713	I thank the People's MP Misha Petronivic. The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, then the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I don't know why we left that good custom to discuss amendments only in the presence of the Minister. We have three government officials here on this agenda, and there are none here right now, and we're talking about amendments. I'm going back to what I said here last night, like the privatisation of the New Home Company. In the meantime, I got more material, so I have an obligation to the people who were employed there to take it out. I said last night that one of the facilities, in fact, the only production project, the factory on Vozdovac, is being sold for eight million euros, which is half of the total price paid for the New Home Company in the privatisation process. But what's even harder here is the fact that the owners of the company, the new owners, have completely abandoned the company's core activity. In addition to abolishing production, they have effectively abolished the retail trade, which was a basic activity, as the largest number of facilities has just been leased. These are objects, I said last night, in central parts of Belgrade and other towns of Serbia where they existed, and there's a list of all these facilities, I wouldn't be reading right now if I wasn't wasting my time. Here, so, with the Agency's blessing and where there is, of course, someone from the same party and the carriage to give a blessing on all of it, you can mean in the first year, against the purchase contract, to leave basic activity, to alienate a large part of the property and thus become a tycoon, capitalist in the state of Serbia today. Now, again, with an apology that I'm going to step down a little bit from a concrete amendment, but it's important because it's also about privatisation, it's about this item of the agenda, and I have an obligation to the employees and former employees of a Uzica company to present their case. Namely, it is the Užica Transport Company, which was once among the three or four largest traffic companies in Serbia. Here, you see how in the DOS privatisation process this company has failed definitely and clearly. The company "Rocket" was sold through a public auction on 27 December 2002. It was sold to a natural person for 58 million dinars or slightly more than 900,000 euros in that course. The net value of the company, estimated by one expert team, is about 20m euros objectively, and here is the first problem we have in all the privatisations. I have already said that all privatisations are special cases and that any book can be written, about any privatisation, that means over 2,000 special cases of crime in Serbia over the past seven years. In a few years, as far as this buyer has had with the "Rocket" property, he has managed to borrow this company multiplely, meaning from that price he paid, so that all the facilities, all the immovableity is mortgaged, except for the platform at the Bus station in Užica, and even the moving things, i.e. the buses are mostly pawned, i.e. they have been entered in the pawnage due to the many borrowings made by this owner over the past few years. The final accounts in all these years were so made that the balance was always positive zero, so those workers who had actions under this law didn't accomplish anything based on dividends. Now there is a new problem, a new moment and a new question to be asked, and which is related to this next law that we have on the agenda, this division of free actions in Serbia -- whether these workers, not only of the Rockets, but also of the other enterprises in Serbia that formally signed the action and are registered as shareholders somewhere, and have never achieved anything, nor will they have the right, under this new law on the share of actions of Serbian citizens, to achieve at least that right, if they have failed to achieve this first? At the end of August 2005, a mortgage was established on the bus station Požega in favour of the tax administration, the Užica branch, to provide a temporary tax charge of 88 million dinars. This is one interesting question again. How is it possible to make such a huge debt based on the state tax in a privatized company without the state reacting to it for years? So, the debt is created for months, and it's been piling up for years, and when it comes to some number that exceeds the amount he paid for the company, then the state just shows up and mortgages the facilities to collect that debt. Why doesn't the state react in a timely manner to these companies, as it is zealously reacting to those small small entrepreneurs who are charged with penalties at astronomical height very quickly and expediently? In June 2007, Rocket issued a platform and belonging infrastructure in Užica to a private company from Užica, although before that there was an agreement between the rocket management and local authorities to do so by bidding and a starting price of one million dinars per month was established. During the night, an order came from the local authorities not to go to bid, but to give it literally or gifts, read, to a privateer from Užica. All that was due at the auction to achieve a greater value than a million dinars per month was handed over to a privateer from Užica, with the obligation to employ 60 workers who had already worked on these jobs, to pay them minimum earnings, minimum legal earnings, to pay them a warm meal of 1,500 dinars a month and to pay them 20,000 dinars a month through this to the tenant "Rockets". I ask, is it possible in Serbia at this time to earn more than the minimum earnings prescribed by law? Furthermore, in July of this year finally, after years of agony, a deal on the sale of Rockets was broken. The trade court in the King, and then the Higher Commercial Court did so, the contract was terminated and by law the Agency transferred the capital to the Action Fund. It is likely that the legal procedure will take place until this company again appears at a new privatisation auction. The question is, what about the company's obligations, what about that capital, or what is now the new value of the pleasure rocket? After the contract was terminated, a few days ago, HVB bank activated a mortgage on part of the Uzic cell building. At the auction held a few days ago, and after the contract was terminated, the municipality of Užica appears as a buyer and buys part of the cell building for 23 million dinars. Perhaps it wouldn't be strange if there were legal authorities in the municipality of Uzice, if the situation were regular there. In the municipality of Užica, however, the situation is irregular, irregular or extraordinary, and it lasts more than a year, or more than a year in the municipality of Užice, are temporary measures. Officially, there has been no SO Užice for a year and a half, which is contrary to common sense and all the legal regulations, but no one in Serbia responds to that. In such a situation, the interim body decides to establish a new public transport company and decide to buy part of the cell building, so that it is likely to start creating the new public enterprise. Of course, nothing is by chance, because before a while ago in Užica the Municipal Committee of the DS began to share one of these pamphlets, where citizens are called to make a literal statement, this has the form of a survey, whether they are to form a new public transport company, because life cannot wait, as it stands here. It is likely that the aim of the DS in Užica is to exploit this irregular situation there, to form another public enterprise and to place its unemployed membership in that public enterprise, because, of course, what they have from public enterprises is under control so far little that everyone is placed there. You see, here's a picture showing a bus from the cult movie "Who sings there" and a modern one, so it's standing -- this is how it is now, and this is how it's supposed to be. Exactly, this is how it is now in DOS power, in the privatisation of DOS, and this was before that privatisation in the pleasure rocket. This is how it's supposed to be if it wasn't for this kind of privatisation in the pleasure Rocket. Therefore, I ask the question, I don't know who, since the minister is not here, but this first applies to Minister Markovic - is it possible that the temporary authority in Užica will last for more than a year? Is it possible that a temporary body, regardless of its duration, can make such a decision to form a public enterprise? Is it possible that a temporary body can allocate so much funds in the budget for such purposes that it is paid by the citizens of Užica? Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one example of privatisation in Serbia, a privatisation that has left a small number of people, who have brought wealth in the regime since 2000, an enormous wealth, and on the other hand left a large number of people, citizens of this country, on the verge of existence. When I watched the show "The Questionnaire" the other night on the first channel of RTS, which was hosted by ministers who were supposed to be here today, and as the leader said, the division of free actions to Serbian citizens can also be called a tip for the people. At first, I thought it was an appropriate name. However, it seems to me that these are just crumbs left from a rich table called privatisation in Serbia under DOS authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14715	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14716	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I didn't get the word before the deadline, but you'll certainly be president of Serbia before the deadline, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14717	Please, no comment on the election. We don't want an election campaign here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14718	The amendment to Article 6 and the amendment to the 5a, which signed only on behalf of the government by the distinguished colleague Susana Grubjesic, are a key point in the amendments to the Privatisation Act. Since there is no minister, I am speaking to you of distinguished colleagues and president of the Privatisation Committee. Since you can answer me, and the distinguished lady and gentlemen of the Rules of Procedure can't do that, that's all I'm talking to you about, because you're representing power here, and I represent transition losers. The transition is synonym for misery. So I understand what law enforcement was, that the remaining unprivatised enterprises are more effectively privatised. That's not controversial. Since one law has already been passed, then I understand it, but to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, to try to explain what the difference is here, as a colleague from the SPS Parliament Club Milisav Petronijevic said. When a normal privatisation buys a company, the one who bought it remains, while the contract phase, the owner of the capital, continues, until the obligation is met by the contract, and when the last financial commitment from the contract is settled, he becomes the owner of the property. If the amendment is accepted, and Suzane Grubjesic is accepted, then we do not have that space here, but whoever purchases it immediately becomes the owner of the property, with the release of a long minefield in Serbia for workers, who do not have any right under such a legal transaction in any way, except that which the state guarantees, which means the burden of taxpayers, and not on the burden of the buyer of capital, or property. That's why this amendment is extremely problematic, because on the one hand it will give a warrant to certain services, such as the Labour Market Office, it used to be called differently, we understand what we're talking about, so directly to the budget to serve the social needs of tens of thousands of people, and on the other hand, whoever buys it will buy something that can absolutely register the same day and it's his property, that he treats it the way he wants. Otherwise, in the privatisation process there were various comforts that were unacceptable to me, which is, for example, if you buy a company as a private face you are guaranteed that you can buy it for six years. If you buy it with bonds of old foreign exchange savings, you provide a 70 per cent discount. I have an example from a privatized company called Inx Future, Pozega, where, for example, the estimated value of capital is less than one month's rent, which is generated by the new owner who bought it for six years, per discount of 70%. This is the devil's work. This isn't clean work. So it's not possible to treat the common national wealth in this way, I'm not going to say socially, because some of you are very sensitive to it, but objectively we've gotten into problems that are very difficult to get out of. So, as in bankruptcy there is this same danger that I'm talking about right now, you are now accepting the amendment to Suzanne Grubjesic 5a, practically expanding the space for someone who wants to become the owner of such a company, no longer has any obligation to workers. That's easy. That is why workers are the biggest victim of the Privatisation Act, for which the SPS has never voted in any form, nor for the basic law, nor for amendments and additions that have already been on the agenda several times. Because the Privatisation Act has practically allowed a number of people to get completely foggy money, we don't know where they came from, you're now proposing to this change and supplement to say that they can't get the black money into the privatisation, but so far they're black and gray and bloody. Do you want me to remind you what blood money has entered the privatization so far? What kind of money is that? It's money from human trafficking, narcotics, it's kidnapping money, it's blood money. May they be moved, to every one of them who thus bought property and people's torment. Now we bring five years after the adoption of the basic law, we bring amendments and additions that can't money that isn't clean to participate in the privatisation process. It's not. I wrote on the sidelines of this bill of yours -- it's late, and I put three signs of shouting and surprise, as the one from the famous TV show would say. It doesn't mean anything anymore. Serbia has become the property of those who bought it with such money. Should I remind you of what these relationships are like? There are honest people who have bought companies with honor and are in charge of the business today in Serbia, and to them we do their best to take off the hat, but most of it, unfortunately, works so that people are completely disfigured, that they are terrified. I ask you, gentlemen, how many union organizations are there in the newly purchased privatized enterprises? No one can start any unions, otherwise they won't get there anymore, and those who have already had union organisations, they're practically coming down to the master's service. It is a union today in privatised enterprises in Serbia. So, the union struggle lasts for as many decades and centuries in the world and has a red color because, like May 1st, it's been paid with blood. So the right for people to work eight hours, to have other needs, is done with the blood of workers and employees. I got a letter from Peter Perisic from Lower Trepce at Chuck's. So he says, Mr. Baralic, pensions in Serbia are small, because one particular firm in Cačka, until I check, I won't say what it's called, to its workers, otherwise one of the best private companies in Chačka, pays the guaranteed salary, so on the hands of so many, so much, so much, so they're satisfied there now. I'm just telling you, Mr. Baralic, from that should be paid taxes and what else you need to receive and pensions, to be paid into the Fund of Education, to the Social and Health Protection Fund, and they don't. So on the one hand, the state is selling national wealth into a wasteland, and on the other hand, there is no proper mechanism to force those who do good business, and they are clearly doing good business, to force them to serve their obligations to the state. Then how is the budget going to be filled? Dear ladies and gentlemen, in June 2007, according to the Ministry of Finance, VAT collection was below 55%, you know. Where does that money go? It's here to get back across the Cayman Islands, so someone can buy these companies on the basis of Amendment 5a, that there's no longer any obligation to the workers, that he buys the property and that he has it at his disposal. I was talking about the Berber Association of Belgrade last night. Look, it was done two years ago, try to comb or trim at one of those bars that used to be a barber's cooperative. No, they're all casinos. Where are those people? They're gone. Look how privatized the Traveler is, see how the others are privatized. We don't have ideological glasses here, so someone doesn't think we're talking here from that point of view. We are speaking from the perspective of the real situation in the privatisation process in Serbia, which is catastrophic. Contracts that have been broken have barely been broken, and there could have been so many more broken up, because virtually no one fulfils any contractual obligations. We mentioned Magnohrom here ten times, we received Mr. Petronijevic and I on behalf of the SPS, six or seven unions of Magnochrom, and when we talked about it, they told us responsible -- no, that's all going to be fine, people will settle down. Why did he break the contract the other day? Because the new owner cut down the entire technology systems and sold his DOO dealing with secondary raw materials at a five-time lower price than could be sold at any other scrap metal in Serbia. It's privatisation, Magnochrom. When you say Magnochrom, then you know exactly what that meant. Once again, I ask you to accept Mr Arsic's amendment to delete Article 6 and not to vote for amendments to the Privatisation Act, because it already includes a member, i.e. Amendment Susane Grubjesic, who is actually an amendment to Government 5a, and that is the only way to prevent what we are talking about, and it is about Article 19 of the Basic Law on Privatisation. We will closely monitor what is going on here, and we will carefully monitor who will now become the owners of the company in which the debt will be released. Please, this is a key moment in privatisation in Serbia, a key moment, because here practically now anyone who has financial obligations that are large will enter this system and workers will be treated from these companies as well as workers from companies in bankruptcy. We're going to have huge social pressures on the state, huge pressures on the budget, and those who buy blood money will be the owners of something they can sell and can do with what they want, but they have nothing to do with the workers. I'm telling the workers, an apology and commendation for what we're saying they can send into the ballot box because they voted for right-wing parties, and they want left-wing solutions, it's not possible anywhere in the world. One party when it wins power, it translates its political programme into laws, that's this privatisation law, that's this amendment 5a, and that's what we call transition today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14719	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, based on this "later mind of the Government of the Republic of Serbia", seven years after the first Privatisation Act, which is diametrically contrary to what before leaving the office of Minister of Economy Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, however, the law could not be voted in the Serbian Parliament, because we had to defend the state and people from NATO aggression and to fight for Kosovo and Metohija. So, when the first Privatisation Act was passed in 2001, it was clear that, as in all countries in transition, there would be a privileged position of those who were close to the current authorities, that people from the front of the government with those who had gone into business crime or decided to get rich, end up in a fast-track job in that first phase of the sale of Serbian enterprises, and that workers, as the years pass, without the social programme, without health care, without the help of really difficult people, would be able to get into the situation of getting into a vacuum, which, for years, they suffered it, because of the fact that many of them do not know, when they retire, what pensions they will be, and whether they will be able to do those enterprises in which they were employed, and are still working, and are still waiting for the privatisation process of their obligations. Is this, Minister Dinkic, a good way and what he's telling us. If your colleague and the head of your parliamentary group, obviously in agreement with you, Mrs Susana Grubjesic, has amended the proposed Article 6 of the Law, and you do not accept the amendment of counterpart Arsic, who is indeed in the right and only asking to protect those in the privatisation process, as he said - that in the privatisation process provided for by this law, the discharge of debts by state creditors, which are taxingly listed in a member now adopted by counterpart Grubjesic, could create a space for irregularity since the buyer in the privatisation process buys a business entity with all debts and claims. That's really true. This is the only truth that a colleague wrote, because if you go back to the Sartida case, selling our sugars, cements, you will see why these people close to the current government, Zoran Djindjic, DS, the DOS regime, for free, for three euros, three euros each, bought Serbian businesses, and inherited debts that amounted to 10-20m euros. To this day, they have not fulfilled their obligations. That's the whole truth. Mr. Dinkic, you have to tell us, because you know yourself that big systems didn't want, like NIS, Elektroprivreda, to discharge debts when Sartid was sold. What's up with that? Will that one day have his epilogue in court? I think he will, and he'll have to. What about the sugars and cements, and what about the debts? Last night, Mr Nikolic spoke of it, when the Business Centre of Ustasha was sold, you were not there because you were celebrating your birthday, but that ended the debate under this law, he asked the only logical question - who is and did he from those customers, in fact, the tycoon that is close to the authorities, give everything he owes to the state? So we come to one situation that still, in the rest of the privatisation process, those who are privileged will be able to use practically this kind of benefit. The question is, how long is it? Until everything is sold out, and until they become rich or multiply their wealth, all those who started doing it with the aid of the 2001 regime. You don't think people or average economists, with their knowledge, are so stupid, they don't know how to make business by buying candy and cements for two or three euros each. The night before last I watched the contribution, I told Oliver Dulic, on state television, it's so trendy to crash the highest legislative body, and now they're polling some citizens, and then they say that only 18% of people have trust in the National Assembly, that MPs are like this or like that, they say -- there's science doctors, they're sluts, there's people who don't know if they have four grades of elementary school. No, this is where elected representatives of the people sit, someone with this type of qualifications. But it's our job to tell thieves, criminals, tycoons -- a lot more and it can't. Let's tell the government -- don't do that anymore, don't put them in a privileged position to put up with the people on the other side. I am fully convinced that everything will have to be cleared up, that all those who have abused and the Privatisation Act, therefore the applicable law, which has been mocked, and the first, changed second, will have to respond to the competent courts, and directly to the people of the judiciary involved in economic crime, and must start from the top of the state government. You, my colleague Grujic, know that as a young and successful man, I suppose legally acquired capital, but you know that, although the SRS is in order to fight for rich society and individuals in them, all of this must be acquired in a legitimate way. The one who hasn't done it, the one who hasn't paid off the debts to the state, who are huge, and the workers have suffered damage or lost their jobs, or have no health book, can't be treated, have no basic living conditions, I'm sorry, one day it has to end. Now I can doubt and say, you're afraid, and since you're dealing with dangerous people, that this or that will happen to you. You've just entered with these dangerous people and criminals in combination. The one who is not afraid, the one who will be able to stand in the way of anyone who deals with crime and corruption is Tomislav Nikolic, and therefore is a convincing favourite in the elections, and that is why citizens will choose him as president of the state. You have to tell everyone how far he can go, and our country is going down, the economy is collapsing, people are out of work, the situation is getting worse and worse. You must, Mr Dinkic, know that those who pat you on the shoulder and who give you some rewards there – which, by the way, are not a prestigious character, how do you have the custom of presenting on domestic media or through paid media – have no good intentions towards our country and the people. You can see about Kosovo and the Metohija that the European Union wants to steal our southern province from us after and after, especially in the case of the Serbian economy. Why it's important for someone to come to the head of the country who's going to make a complete turn in relation to everything that's happened to you so far. For the simple reason, I'll take this opportunity, you won't mind me, I end up Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I believe you'll agree with me, because you're also a great Russian and a man who cherishes these traditional relations with the Russian Federation, look at today's "Justice", one of the most investigative daily newspapers, as part of an interview with the American "Time" president of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin. Look what he says - NATO is out of line. So what the whole righteous world knows, what a man of one of the most powerful states knows and what he says and explains to them, means, he says, without the strong Russia, without the strong other countries that are our traditional friends, which are not in the NATO alliance, there is no strong America either. You have to look for allies on the other side. You can't, on the one hand, Minister, tell us -- we'll try to get the finished product, the Serbian car, the one that's being produced in Kragujeva's flag, so you said, another factory is going to be made, to be exported to the big Russian market, and on the other hand, to push the Russians' fingers into the eye and to say no, we're going with those who want to take away Kosovo and Metohija, and we're going to be Euro-Atlantic integration. And the man perfectly explained everything said - this Western military alliance, except for the politics of the naked force, except for the policy of preventing normal development and the existence of other countries, except that it did not protect its citizens on 11 September, which Putin well explained, there is neither the peace role nor the role of the prosperity of any nation in the world. Therefore, as I see and know, it is also your ideology, and the DS, that you cannot change that and that the threat of stealing your territory is not enough indication where Serbia should go, I believe in the citizens of Serbia and their willingness and determination to vote for the Serbian Putin on January 20th, if I may say so, Tomislav Nikolic, to become president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14721	I thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. The word is Rajko Djuric, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14722	Dear Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Crescent, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Crescent, allow me to express my admiration for you, because you are truly a model of dignity in this building. I am obliged to remind myself of the following, namely, host of this building, as a civilized and polite man, issued a manual that can be read in the toilets in this building. After the instructions, this civilized man wrote, "Because there are people after you who will need the toilet." Don't mind me, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that here, for this speaker, there should also be a manual: "Because even after you, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, there are people who will need this payphone." The National Assembly has turned, unfortunately and to shame, into an EPP programme, an advertising workshop for individual parties recommending their candidate as president of the state. I must say that this is the most terrible abuse of this pay phone, the worst form of human soul fishing, as philosopher Djuro Sušnic said, and the greatest humiliation of Serbian citizens. I say, Serbia is the law and there will come a time when we will all answer to that law. Please, we are the Messengers of the people, not the messengers of our parties, and let us no longer allow the humiliation of this land and the humiliation of its reputation. I ask the President and the Chairman to disabling anyone who advertises his candidate, take away his word, and according to the Rules of Procedure, simply punish him for insulting his reputation, the dignity of the National Assembly. It is inevitable that such a punishment must be imposed, because we receive salaries from taxpayers, and taxpayers do not pay us to advertise candidates of these or not parties, but to pass mind laws, to make appropriate proposals and solutions, because in this country, as we know, there are a series of burning problems. Finally, on the occasion of yesterday's speaker, I have to finish my presentation, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and in order to sum up my thought, the message of Đura Jaksic, "Pass brothers, gasses in blood", has only, fortunately, literary and historical significance, but no longer a moral political message. In our time, the message must inevitably read, "You mean brothers, you shut down in work, in honesty and in knowledge." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14723	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, following an amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14724	Dear gentlemen, I hope that I will not contribute to the extension of this debate, but I had a need to say a few numerical data that should be given to us, as well as to citizens who observe, yet bring to some point the real knowledge of this process. So privatisation is always done the moment when the state will, and in other countries, to deficiently fund itself, not to spend its money on deficiting public enterprises. This is when privatisation takes place in these countries that have complete private property. We were privatized by the plebiscitarian will of all parties because social property had failed in balance. Please, those who don't understand balances should really be very restrained when they speak. Anyone who doesn't understand balance enough must be very restrained when speaking. The balances of our companies were ruined, they were unreadable for economic analysts, who really did do this job. Unreadable. Here's how it was privatization. The bookkeeping or estimated value is determined, the starting price is 20%. Why only 20%, why such a low starting price? So that the bad ones have a buyer, and the good ones, because they go to the public auction and the public tender, they'll always have a buyer. Here's the information. The average selling price of those around 2,100 was sold through bookkeeping, over an estimated 20%. It's proof that those who are worthy have found a buyer through a method -- who gives more. In that case, I'm not defending abuse. There's the law enforcement system. All those who have abused this public tender procedure, public auctions, must indeed and should respond, but I repeat, the sale price is higher than the bookkeeping price, although it is 20% initial, I repeat, for bad companies to get the buyer. And they didn't get it again. For example, cement factories, here's the data, accurate data. Lafarz bought Beocin for 86,000,000 euros, the largest privatisation of that time. Holcim bought Popovac for 60.5m euros. Titan bought the Koseric cement factory for about 35,000 euros. They're all leaders in the cement industry, big foreign companies. Gentlemen, you understand, with all the dissatisfaction as much as and as the purchase contract is fulfilled, especially in the part of the economy, you have to understand that the balances of these companies, outside of these nearly 200,000.00 euros that have come into the state budget, the balances are far better than they were. You know, who's close to Popovac, it was a factory in the trash, people had their own packages, employees packed, it's one system of corruption. Now it's the leader of the construction industry. We can't argue about what's real. It's the same with Koseric. It's the same with Beocino. Sugars - three euros. Gentlemen, it's free. Three euros, it wasn't sold out of bankruptcy or restructuring, so only property was bought. Gentlemen, that's where the balance was sold, and the balance is black. That candy balance is catastrophic. There's no capital in the passport, only obligations. So they were paid three euros, plus 20m euros in liabilities and plus employees. That's the facts. Is it much, is it little, whoever offered four euros, he would have won because he was the tender method. (Zeljko Vasiljevic, from the place: But the state would not write off his debt. When did she write off? That's not true. There's no debt written off for sugars. Finally, discharge of debt. Gentlemen, 70 firms in restructuring, I've been repeating this and everyone's repeating it, it's a known fact, 70 companies are in restructuring. So far, 35 companies have been sold. Incomes are 300-400m euros highest, with around 7 billion euros spent through direct subsidies to salaries and other current expenditures of billions over the discharge. Therefore, these changes that are being made should once be a terrible delay in the sale of enterprises, in restructuring, or defining them, to end this once, because otherwise they will not be sold at all. Come on, gentlemen, let's get some Jagodina. Where are your customers? I'm really well-intentioned because I think I know that, that I'm doing these close-up jobs. Where are those customers for Jagodina, where are the buyers for other companies: IMT, IMR and others? Come on, Russians, let them come. But where are they? It's gonna be hard for someone to come because they're firms with unreadable balances. Remember, unreadable. That's our truth right now. As much as we can politicize and speak, lamentate over workers, over others, but basically we're just pulling them away from the solution, from a truly realistic existential solution by slowing down the process of restructuring, the discharge of debts, sales and all other actions that should once lead to no more encounters, I repeat, but I said that there is no more close encounter between any property, i.e. social and private, because this close encounter inevitably and legally gives birth to corruption. One more word for Rocket. I happen to know about Rocket. It's true, that's one example, of a large number of cases of unfortunate privatisations. The Rocket is that example. Gentlemen, what my colleague was saying is, it's like the Rocket is pre-privileged. I know that because my friend was the director and I helped him find a solution. And then she was in complete trouble. Before the privatisation of Rocket had no bus, it was necessary that colleague, the director of Rockets, asked him to buy several buses to repair the structure, and otherwise the balances were very, very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14725	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Vujadinovic. Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14726	Comrade Vujadinovic, you cannot defend what is indefensible. You, as an economist and as a man who's well-assessed what the real balance is or cannot be determined by those companies, you know what the balance was for these sugars and cements you're talking about. I don't know what your interest is in defending Serb tycoons. Last night I talked to you about it and asked you nicely, and he asked you and Tomislav Nikolic -- the debts that remained, which these people took over, you say - no one made the write-off. I ask Minister Dinkic, and I ask you, did they pay for them? Don't lie on your shoulders. So you're defending them, and you don't know if they gave them what they needed. If they are not, they will go to prison, Mr. Vujadinovic, but when the president of the state arrives and the government that will punish criminals for their abuses. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm asking you to protect me from any individual, ignorant, political dilettante or someone who doesn't know what this pay phone is for, because I've been serving it for 12 years, to promote SRS attitudes. As far as I'm concerned, the question is, however, the citizens give the same answer to me and other Serbian radicals. For now, we are the most in Serbia, so far the citizens trust us most and there are more and more of us. While the election campaign is going on and there is a session of the Assembly of course that I will talk about who is best, about Tomislav Nikolic and the fact, because I come from a city where there really are many members of the Roma minority, I am convinced that 99.9% of those in my Kragujevac will vote for their fellow citizen, for who they grew up with, go to the nearby school "Stanislav Sremčević" and who they have known since their birth, for our Tom Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14727	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. First Slobodan Maras, according to the Business, then Rajko Baralić, according to the Business, then Dr Rajko Đurić, according to the Business and then Goran Cvetanović replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've called about an article. 225 and 226. A short time ago, we received a letter from the Citizens' Protector, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, who was elected here on July 23rd and who sent a letter and warned the Assembly, and above all its president, that by who knows which time the law was not respected. The legal deadline of two months has not been respected to start operating in full capacity after his proposal for his deputies in the Assembly of Votes on them and the Citizens' Protector as an institution. However, it is just another proof that this government, or the ruling majority in the Assembly, is experiencing institutions that should control the work of state authorities, control the spending of budget funds and help citizens if some of their human or minority rights are compromised. I'll remind you of the Antimonopoly Commission. We had a chance to talk to them on the Trade Committee. They said, Mr. Minister, among other things, that your name was mentioned, the President of the Competition Protection Commission said that you and Mr. Bubalo were putting pressure on those working at the Antimonopoly Commission. Also, Parliament Speaker Mr. Dulic failed to fulfil his legal obligation and made his public promise to propose candidates, or members of the Lustration Commission. The Anti-Corruption Council received less money in the 2008 budget this year than in 2007. The state audit institution received less money than it requested. The question is whether all of its control functions will be able to perform, and above all, what is most important, what we have talked about in previous days, to control how the budget of the Republic of Serbia is spent. The Council of the State Auditing Institution is a tenant on the fifth floor in the Assembly. The other day, we had the opportunity to hear the Commissioner for Public Information, and in several places, he reiterated that he had a major lack of co-operation with state authorities, especially with some ministers, and particularly with the Minister for Infrastructure. What I mean is, if the government behaves in such a way that everything that could control its work stalls, I expect at least from the Assembly, or its president, to do as Mr. Jankovic asked, to sort of put it in the agenda by the end of this session and select its deputies, for the simple reason that the Citizens' Protector has functioned for a certain time, a few months, without any means. They didn't have where to pay. I invite you, Mr. Chairman, to remind Mr. Dulic of the letter Sasa Jankovic sent us. It has also been addressed to us MPs, to do this as soon as possible, and to allow citizens to have protection from those whom the Assembly has chosen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14729	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14730	There goes Mr. Minister, and an important witness was for what I'm about to say. Mr. Vujadinović, never again take the privatisation of these three cements as a good example because, at this session, an esteemed colleague is now on the agenda, in addition to the amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act for the first time, the obligation of these thieves to pay to the state the compensation for mineral raw materials that they have received so far, according to the thief's contract you signed. That's the first thing. The second thing, the price of cement in Serbia is more expensive today than in France. Mr. Vujadinović, it's like you bought a bakery, and someone gave you free flour for five years, and you're talking about an effective cement store. How do you feel about saying that in front of Serbian citizens? How can you represent such a thesis? Lafarg uses the Mayan Laporac in Fruska Gora National Park. Three crimes do so by doing so, and the state has so far been involved in this criminal enterprise. You don't understand what this is about, and you're an honest man. Is it possible that those who bought three cements and a creamy deer up to five years had the right not to pay the state a fee for the use of a mineral factor? You know it well and represent them here today in one completely different light. Then why is it on the agenda of this session of amendments and the addition of the Budgetary System Act, and why does one member treat what I'm talking about now? Because Mr Dinkic, he came out, four years ago, said the state is losing 50m euros a year because of it. He said that as governor of the National Bank, so I warned him about it when he was Minister of Finance, so six times so far. This year you put it in an amendment to the Budgetary System Act. Sell mineral water "Knjiz Miloš", and he does not pay anyone who draws natural wealth from the belly of the earth. It's so easy for someone to be efficient and to achieve efficiency in self-inflictedness. I'm not talking about ideological differences here. I'm talking about the fact that there is no concession agreement, that there is no compensation for the natural factor and that it works from the National ParkFruška Gora. What else do you need? Let's just say, thank you for coming to rob us? When he bought a cement store, he only bought a rotational stove, a rolling stock and a guard's house, but he didn't buy a mayday lapora. We're not talking about ideological differences here, but we're talking about the opportunities someone got to fire half the workers, that 500 of them buy a cab, in Beocino nobody needs a taxi, that after that they become social cases, that those who are there are actually getting bigger salaries now, and the state is losing 100 million euros a year. That's the point. That's what we're talking about here. We don't compromise on whether we understand balances. They were not invisible there, but an invisible position in which they pay compensation for using the laporate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14731	The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, and a note. The voting time moves from 12:00 to 13.00 hours, so it moves in one hour. The vote will be at 1:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14732	The amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act have been changed four times, precisely because many of the shortcomings of these laws have been defined. The biggest drawbacks are auction privatisations, over-indebtedness, discrepancies with the current Company Act, partial balance sheet, nationalised property, property registration, use of permits, undisclosed liabilities and the like. The Privatisation Agency for High Accounting Subjects has mostly submitted the cases to consultants, who have kept the documentation very often and very long, which meant that these terms were prolonged. The company's liquidity, blocked accounts, are often conditioned by impossible taxi payments, as well as expenses, especially when it comes to geodetic conditions that had to be met in order to register these companies. Examples of unsuccessful privatisation certainly do not encourage actors in the transition of social capital. I'll define some more problems: reduced market, outdated equipment and technology in enterprises, low level of crafts, large debt. For these very reasons, unfortunately, the market is lost, the prospects are not promising. Contract termination charges were transferred from court to court, equipment and installations were blown up and mainly destroyed. The common characteristics of failed privatised enterprises are the neglect of professions, the neglect of the concept of interdependence and insufficient, very little or no introduction of fresh capital. Finally, it may be a question for non-governmental ministers, whether the majority owners really wanted to enable at least a two-year period of continuous production of existing programmes and profits provided for by the collective agreement. If we look at any district, we'll see that these negative examples have many and very few positive examples. There are only three positive examples in Jablanič County: the "Predejane" motel, the Lemind and the Leskovac dairy plant, which was still a perspective company in the former Yugoslavia. Almost Mr. Djelic spoke of "Health Actavis", as a pearl of the wood industry, that it is a positive example of privatisation. The company that was sold for three and a half million euros and the value of the company is 45m euros. Only finished products, the medications were in the 12m-euro storerooms and it was immediately sold on the market. If you know there were 2,200 workers at the time, and there are now about 800 workers, I'm not sure it's a quality, good and fair privatisation. About six months ago, the head of the Jablanic district and the president of the Leskovac municipality, both members of the DS, pledged a successful privatisation of the Leteks factory. "Letex" produces wool-type fabric and was always known for its textile production. A woman after 30 years of working in Australia came and bought a factory, these workers didn't receive a salary for six months, we just have the sale of machines, the destruction of what was inherited, and no employee is employed, and the county chief and president promised 2,000 new jobs. If it's a successful privatisation, well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14733	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14734	I'm going to have to make a conclusion, because I had, unlike the others who were answering the Rules of Procedure, and they didn't even say by which member they called, and they just had a replica like me. Unlike others, I'm reporting on a basis that I think I should answer. It's just a conclusion and I'm done. The reform of society, the efficient market economy and the measures for its implementation are in the hands of the state. That is why the future president of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, is because of these reforms, and that is the answer to your position and to your question, because MPs here represent the interests of all Serbian citizens. The MPs are making the most of the problems and the one who has the greatest basis and the largest number of votes, he is obliged from this booth to pass on the problems, but also hope for both our children and our future. As I'm sure almost all Roma in the Jablanic district will vote with Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I'm sure the Roma in the other districts will vote, unlike you who are obviously doing the task that the other has defined for you and paid you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14735	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Rajko Đuric, and then the MP, Mrs Vesna Pesic, and then the MP, Jovan Damjanovic. The word is Dr. Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14736	Dear Mr. Grouchy, ladies and gentlemen, I don't feel called, because I have in mind the wisdom of the famous Gete - happy is he who forgets what can't be changed. We've had a visual example of beings or things that don't change. Secondly, even though the Russian language was family language, my language, I must say publicly, I am a sickle to the core. Let our dear colleagues learn lessons from that. Thirdly, I end up, a one-dimensional man is worthy of pity, a one-dimensional politician is worthy of contempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14737	You're waiting for the minister, Mrs. Pesic? Well, then give it to me like this, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic. I'm asking the service to ask Mr Dinkic, I hope he hasn't left. Please be correct and hold the dignity of the congregation, as you have already learned. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly wouldn't have called to discuss it, since it's about dignity here. Please, is that dignified, a man who spoke against his country, who spoke against Orthodoxism, who openly defended the interests of the West, who loved Paul's pope's laps, who sold cyanide to kill Serbs, Roma and other citizens in conclogos, a man who defended decent Serbia, so he spoke like this because there was no mild truth. In Bijeljina, people were slaughtered with knives, thousands of young men in Zvornik were forced to lie on the streets, Arkan ordered trucks to cross them, and so they were simply ground up people who were not Serbian nationalities. Mr. Gjuric, if you're a decent man and you defend Orthodox men like this, and you're a great Serbian, for God's sake, you wouldn't say. As far as this pay phone is concerned, it's sad, it's not to laugh, it's to cry, you're always complaining, and someone's always threatening to liquidate you. You were threatened by the SFRY to be liquidated by Milosevic. You know that you were in Germany, expelled from Germany, you know what you were doing in Germany, how much you embezzled millions, the damage of the Holocaust Roma. You know, Mr. Rajko Guric, that you've been in psychiatry, I don't mind, because of your psychiatric pathological...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14739	Please, colleague Damjanović, you are a serious gentleman, please don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14740	You weren't prosecuted at court, but you were expelled from Germany. You say with dignity that you have dignity, you attack here people who are honest and honest citizens, who have gained some right here by their work. You know that Mr. Mishko Komertz did not abuse, he did nothing that would be dealt with by the law, but was working on the interests of his company and his people who work at the firm. You're saying you shouldn't be talking here about people who are supposed to run for president of the state. Why? If these people deserve, if they have dignity, if they have a program, visions for a better life, for this country and for this people, then why don't we talk about them? We won't talk about those who haven't done anything for this country. I will always affirm and always speak for every man, whether he is in the SRS or not, if he works for the sake of this Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14741	Dr. Rajko Đuric has his word again, but I beg you, Dr. Djuric has not offended anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14742	I'm not a man of insult, Mr. Grouchy, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, because they don't allow me to be my age or my education. However, given that I have been one of the best known for no reason, I must remind myself that I have just asked the question of the Police Minister, the Minister of Justice, who are the ambassadors of the murderers? It referred to Mr Damjanovic, because he was processed and there is an official report that the MP was 12 years and 2 months in prison. That is the Messenger, and I said: For such I will come with a gas mask on my face to this building. Secondly, I have citizenship and Germany and Serbia, and I say to the citizens -- let the people who look like Husa a chickener from the novel "On the Drina Cupri" not believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14743	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14744	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, reporting under Rule 104. Mr. Đurić, who came out of the O.R., it's your manners to insult, so you're leaving the session, and you didn't interrupt him, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because he told you all those praises and I agree in the most part with the fact that you're trying as a correct man to chair the assembly. But when someone from the assembly pay phone accuses one political party or individuals that, I quote what Rajko Đuric said, since some respected colleagues were not then in the "human soul hunters", tell me if there are any major insults and is it normal for someone to say something like that from the assembly pay phone? So it's the most difficult insult I've heard, I don't know for how many years back, that in this way people are accused, honorable, honest, Serbian radicals or representatives of other parties, who feel the same way about themselves, who promote their ideas to their presidential candidate. As for me and the SRS, the vast number of Roma citizens in this country, I am proud of Jovanovic Damjanovic, I am proud of the fact that he is the only Roma in the history of the Serbian state and people who served as minister at the proposal of our party's president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. All the others, not to say nebulose, but vomit and disgusting lies, I will not comment on it, because it does not allow me my dignity as both the Serbian Radical and Vice President of the Assembly, but I am also proud of all others who are involved in the work of the SRS as representatives of national minorities, and of Ms Marina Toman, and of Stefan Zankov, and of our esteemed brother Spaha and all others, Otto Kishmarton, and of others you do not know, who live and work in their cities and as committees, and as directors of public enterprises, as loyal citizens of Serbia, responsible people. Because they know very well that our party and the president of our party, who protects in the Hague case not only Serbs, but also non-Serbs for the charges and for the destruction of our country and the destruction of our people and all loyal citizens of the state, will know very well that their interests, in the way that every Serbian radical that is in the parliamentary benches, and is a representative of the national minority, will protect the elected Serbian President, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. We have never abused national minorities only for the purpose of the electoral body and machinery that should lead voters in the second election round. They know it and understand it all, and Hungarians, and Roma, and Slovaks, and Russians, and Bulgarians, and Serbs of Muslim religions, and all those whose Serbia is a country of heart and who fight for the interest of the state and this people. Listen carefully to the words, whenever they appear at the assembly speaker, Mr. Jovanovic Damjanovic. He tells you - I am a Roma, a radical, but I call on all well-intentioned people, all people whose freedom is at heart and country to work in the interests of this country and this people. Those are words for every respect, which is why I thank him for the representatives of the people he represents as a Serbian radical in the parliamentary bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14745	Mr. Jovan Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure. I have to answer to Miss Jovanovic. I will never use this position to advertise myself personally. So that's my attitude and don't be mad at it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14746	Ladies and gentlemen, for my activities and the implementation of the programme that and how they make progress to the Roma people and the affirmation of our country, I have been elected Vice President of the World Parliament of the Roma. I've received the greatest charter, the three of us men we've only received in the world such a charter for fighting and for the rights of the Roma people and for the affirmation of our country in an honorable and fair manner. Is it worthy of it and morally for one of the presidents of the Roma political party to exclude it, to call upon an extraordinary assembly to exclude it from the party? Is it worthy that whoever brought him into that party that they're criminals now, that they're now people who sell all kinds of opiates, which doesn't have a soft spot? Is it worthy to say the worst about who's honorable, who's honest, because they don't support him in his dictatorial actions in the Roma political party? Is it worthy that he cheated on the nation? It's not the Roma Party. I have nothing against any political party. These are all brotherly, Serbian political parties, these are all Serbs, and I am Orthodox too. We can, on a political basis, disagree, but we can't hate each other. My Serbian people, my brotherly people don't hate my country, I don't hate it, I hate it in all world and international frameworks, wherever I have international conferences, that we don't violate the civil and human rights of the Roma people and other national minorities. Dr. Rajko Djuric, when he was president of the World Organisation of Roma, he stole from us. He received a billion and 200 million Swiss francs for damages from the Holocaust Roma in Switzerland. He took it upon himself and therefore has many applications, complaints from Switzerland, Romania, Bulgaria, and even from Serbia. He's protected by immunity, but that immunity will move away. Do I need it now, after he cheated on the Roma nation – that it is a Roma party. It's not a Roma party, it's what we see here. It doesn't matter who he lobbys for. It's his right. I am a member of the SRS, and I will work with dignity on all programmes that affirm both our country and our people, and the Roma minority to help. Is that evil? It's not. It's mean when a man says I'm a murderer. I claim, criminally and materially, I've never killed anyone in my life. Mr Đurić, this is his what he says, whoever bothers him and tells him the truth, and we know about every truth, then he calls us various labels and gives us what we really don't know, or what they say – it doesn't belong to us. It's embarrassing, I've never been in Europe to speak against Serbia, against Yugoslavia, against our representatives, which is what Dr Rajko Djuric was doing permanently while he was 12 years old, until he was expelled.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14747	I thank MP Jovan Damjanovic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14748	I would primarily like to address my colleagues Roma, Mr Djuric and Mr Damjanovic, and I would really like to ask them to release the pay phone from these things on mutual charges, to leave this situation, not to work here in parliament, to try to do it elsewhere. It is not correct for the people of Serbia, both of whom both of you are in favour and who both of you are calling for, to abuse this pay phone for these purposes. I'm not getting into this situation who caused it, who didn't, but I think we should put an end to it, that we Roma show that we're dignitaries of this house and that we simply transfer these discussions to another field, and here we send messages to our voters by fighting to get into the laws of something, to get into the budget, and to define differently the institutional framework of Serbia. In that direction, I'd say just a few sentences. The Roma Party in that direction, we are not interested in who was doing what, who was stealing, we are interested in the government of the Republic of Serbia forming a Council for Roma Integration, we are interested in no longer being falsely represented in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is what I want to inform all MPs, that yesterday we finally came to the Deputy Prime Minister's conclusion that in the Service for Human and Minority Rights, one man is falsely represented as the Head of Secretariat. A colleague who is chairman of the Legislative Committee knows that secretaries can only form a government, that the government only forms directors of the Secretariat. However, in the government of the Republic of Serbia a year ago, one man is represented as the head of the ministry's secretariat, abuses the overall Roma population. Come on, colleague Damjanovic and counterpart Rajko Đuric, who is not there, to help this country be formed, to help in addition to 40 million, which I expect today in the budget to vote for Roma integration and 60 million to improve the situation of refugees, displaced persons and others, to help create an institution that will help these people, and in three years, voters will say how much we helped them and whether we deserve to get a mandate here again. That's my appeal to you. Information to MPs that, although I asked two months ago to give me an answer to the parliamentary question - whether there is a secretariat for Roma issues, I did not get that answer, and I cannot get it because simply the Service for Human and Minority Rights cannot give an answer because it abuses and there false people represent themselves. This is what we go to jail for, and we deceive ministers, we deceive the Roma people, we deceive the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we all keep quiet about it, and we don't want to answer that. Even worse to be bigger, today the same man tried, and despite being clearly undermined by the Deputy Prime Minister, that this body doesn't exist and that it has to be appointed by the Government, this same man today in the government tried to get a certain number of people, activists who are involved in Roma integration, I don't want to talk about people, talk about the system, the same man tried today to give certain people orders and say - I don't care about Parliament, I don't care about anyone, I'm interested here to implement the policy of those who told me. Brothers, dear friends, honourable MPs from the ruling parties, I expect you to truly, in the spirit of what the Deputy Prime Minister said last night, vote for it, calculate yourself with these illegal things in the government, and once and for all, show the seriousness that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to resolve Roma issues in institutions, and only legally and legitimately.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14749	I thank the People's MP Srdjan Shin. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Vesna Pesic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mrs. Vesna Pesic. I failed to bring the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14750	I really wanted to ask Mr. Secretary one question, and it really wasn't a question of contention. I'm not asking him about any malfeasance or if he's involved anywhere. I wanted to ask one question about privatisation, and then with this law that we've discussed here in a very detailed way, and that's the law on free shares of public enterprises and financial fees. First of all, I have to say that until now, the privatisation that has been going on in Serbia has been major problems, and here in Parliament we have heard about it. It was really quite untransparent, it was sold for nothing, it was set up and sold, etc. So there were good sales, just as it was going, but it's never been sold to anyone before, and it wasn't private capital. It means that some social property is turning itself in to some kind of private property. And that's why I'm saying-- what's the matter, we know, but now I want to ask you a question. He's going through the press, and if the citizens and we in parliament hadn't been informed, there's been some sort of memorandum, some kind of document by Gazprom and the Russian government regarding the NIS. I wanted to discuss the issue with Mr. Minister because he started privatisation, the idea of privatising public enterprises, and I wanted to ask the question directly -- how much did we pay for Meryl Lynch's consulting services to tell us how to privatise NIS as the first to come? How much money did we give and can one public campaign go that because of the southern stream, to get the pipeline through Serbia, that we need without a tender to give the state a public enterprise? That's a very important question. So we can't give to another country without a tender and how it's going to affect the ever-increasing privatisation of public enterprises if we do so. Please, "Policy" in the introductions every day advertises something like that, and then says this -- just as Serbia used to position itself between the West and the East, because that pipeline connects through Serbia, which is supposed to pass there, east of the West, so we will, as during the titoism, settle between the West and the East, and we will harvest some fruits. Wait, please, what's this about? First, Mr Popovic, who is in charge of energy, cannot hide the document. I also call on the President of the Republic. He had an interview the other day. He said something about that letter is wrong, we'll talk. Please make the letter, the memo, the document published, that the public knows what it says, to answer how much money has been paid to the consulting firm. One more thing to tell you, what are the gentlemen of colonial mentality in this Serbia? What's wrong with us? Are we going to have this church to pay off some Russians, who need what little oil processing in Serbia, to give it to them? And this is how to kidnap, without any public influence. This muggerish mentality that is being shown here, just to tell you, no one of the authorities has ever burned a candle to the end. To remind you of Serbian history, the greatest and most famous patriot Dragutin Dimitrijevic - Apis, who was leader as you know Unity or death, was responsible for high treason. Gentlemen, this is about classic high treason. Someone's gonna be responsible for this. So, I wanted Mr. Minister to say what it says in that document, what it's all about, when the public will be informed, and that applies to both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, everyone is informed about it, just not us. Please, it can't be torn apart like this, and it can't be given to other countries by our state property. We paid, let Mr. Service pay Meryl Lynch out of his pocket, what did we pay for it? Who's going to make it up to us. How long are we gonna pay for that? So that's one big subject that concerns the functioning of the state, let's see what patriotism is today, who sells out this country. I wanted to get information about it, but here's Mr. Minister's work is far more important than when the Serbian state is sold out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14751	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to confirm on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group what our friend Mrkonjic said will never be advertised from this place where he sits. It's in the nature of his being, but there's also no need because there are works behind him, and the works speak. I reported to the Rules of Procedure to protest the question we raised two hours ago, the minister did not give an answer. The fact that Mr. Vujadinovic answers instead of the minister does not count, because he answers questions that are not asked, and I ask the minister to answer the question he is asked. Here, Mr. Vujadinovic, the key issue is the restructuring of enterprises that are in restructuring. Whole capital or property is sold. Is that right? Yes, it is. I ask the minister once again to explain to the public why the creditors, who are obliged to fire the debt, do not have the right to collect their claims from the sale of capital or property, because total capital and property are being sold. That's the key question. Mr. Vujadinovicu, you've skillfully escaped from this topic and listed a whole series of questions that you think you're going to turn away from the topic that's being set here. I just want to warn you, Mr. Vujadinovic, the SPS parliamentary group said that, we even used the term - we worship every privatisation that was fair. Anyone who bought the company, started production, invested, saved employees, which is the essence of privatisation, and we bow down, that's what we said. By listing examples, we've listed the ones where it's not. We are looking for answers here, because Serbia needs first to regain confidence, if it is possible to regain confidence in privatisation. Serbia is unemployed, needs such processes that will enable employment, start a business. That's the point. Just to warn you, otherwise I don't mind when you answer the word, we're starting to get new letters right away. Since I'm from Belgrade, I can't get a chance to list these privatisations that are in Belgrade, from C Market, Centrotextile, Sugar factories, Robing houses, Soko Sturk, PIK Zemun, PKB, you don't know anymore. I can't even count it all. Here he comes a little while ago, you say - why are we taking care of the workers? Who's going to worry? Who should he take care of rather than the workers? Here's just a detail, the S.H.I.E.L.D. company, came in 15 minutes ago. It was sold to a foreign citizen, to a German, through the Agency, a few months ago. From the time of purchase until ten days ago, a certain amount of waterproof plywood was produced, which he delivered to his firm in Germany. He sold some machines along the way, took the money, to leave his company a month ago, and sent word that he wasn't coming back. Meanwhile, the credentials launched a bankruptcy procedure, which was initiated 20 days ago by an emergency procedure. There are over 500 workers left with a dozen, while everyone has been fired and as it says - follows everything by law, etc. Actually, it's a sale. Who's the loser here? These 500 workers. Who should protect them? They should be protected by the state and the SPS will all the time cite such examples, in order to resolve them and take responsibility for all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14753	The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government and the Privatisation Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with a correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with a correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Privatisation Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Pause until 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have, first of all, a notice for you, moving the day for the 2008 budget vote. You will be informed of a new date when it will be voting day. We will continue the debate in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, by setting a break of 45 minutes and at 1400 hours, the debate on amendments continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14755	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Saša Valjarevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic. Here you go, Mr. Valyarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, to remove the full member. Before I begin to explain why we feel that Article 9 should be deleted. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, SRS MPs, when the first Privatisation Act was adopted in 2001, pointed to failures in the proposed law at the time. However, there was no hearing at that time to accept the amendments and amend them under the proposed law. Now, after seven years, you are proposing that, under the Privatisation Law proposal, to protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia from capital inflows stemming from crime, corruption, money laundering and to introduce certain restrictions in the law on conditions of participation in privatisation procedures, as additional reasons for the termination of concluded contracts. Several thousand companies have already been privatised from 2000 to 2007. We know that there has been a lot of dirty money in these privatisations, or money obtained in an illegal way. The evidence of this is daily affairs that are revealed in the framework of privatisations carried out in all local self-governments, where some criminals or people who are on the other side of the law, money acquired illegally participated in privatisations and bought certain social enterprises, so that, in the minority, they became masters of these local self-governments. What was going on in those privatisations? No one was allowed to appear at auctions, and if they did, they were just fictitious people who raised a price. They also had an impact on bankruptcy managers, who carried out an unrealistic assessment of the value of the assets, so that in the course of privatisation many social enterprises, which could continue to work and which were, say, in good condition, not being brought into bankruptcy, were sold for unrealistically low cost. An example of such privatisation comes from the municipality of Požarec, where after October 5th, all the loved ones of the then DOS regime started to buy one social enterprise at a time in the municipality of Požarec and in the Branič district at all. Here, now the latest affair that came out is when more than 30 and some participants were arrested in the affair itself, it's the social enterprise of Avala, which is one of the largest catering companies in Braničevsky County, which had a huge value of capital, with the facilities itself, starting from a hotel that is the only hotel in the municipality of Požarec. I'll give you only in parallel, they bought a total catering company of “Avala” for 5,000 dinars back then in 2002, and they took over 10,000 for the sale of Matijević. Now you see how different that is. It's one of the catering facilities, and there are over 10, next to the hotel located in the center of town. So the discovery of other illegal activities that were within the framework of the privatisation began to take place and began from city to city to discover phantom companies. In the end, they also came to the Public Communal Enterprise of Cleanness, where a DS member, otherwise Director General Ignjatovic, participated, where the state was damaged for several million euros in the privatisation itself and in all the illegal and illegal actions that accompanied the entire criminal association. It's just one of the privatisations. We had a social company called Angopromet, which was in every city and every village, its own store or its own place, in the best place in each of the cities, in the very center. It happens that a petty smuggler, who sold on flea markets by 2000, becomes one of the owners of one of the most powerful trading companies in Braničevsky County. After that, since they were then in the local self-government, there seems to be an argument when the division of the spoils that they managed to do in this privatization, then they prosecuted him, as a result of tax evasion, and now it comes to the fact that the company goes bankrupt, that the workers remain on the street and are still under trial. These are just two examples of how much dirty money and all kinds of machinations were in the privatisation process, where after seven years over a million people were out of work. I am wrong again, because yesterday, when I explained the amendment of my colleague Nebojja Stefanovic, Minister Dinkic was not present to ask him, since he was one of the main creators of the sale and destruction of our entire banking system, where in Pozarevec, where there was the headquarters of the Belgrade Bank, one of the best banks then in Serbia, in one day 400 workers were left without a job when he took the fire-fighting bank into bankruptcy. All these machinations, within all these privatisations and destruction of this economy, have led me now in Serbia, when privatisation is mentioned, citizens are simply beginning to fear whether they will have a job tomorrow and how they will provide for their families. So that story of the minister and the general leadership of the current government and the DOS in 2000 in the European Union, about life in some better conditions, about life in prosperity, there's nothing from that story. It's just a fairy tale that was told then to citizens who believed then, but I don't think they'll ever believe such a beautiful story again, because after all these privatisations and all the machinations that have been, many ministers who have come since 2000, become multimillionaires, so we had an example of Djelic, who, after one term, as minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic, became richer by 11,000,000 euros. There we also have Mr Vlahovic, who is one of the participants of the privatisation of the "New Home", who also had the best places to manufacture and sell furniture in all the cities in Serbia. So suddenly there are enormously wealthy representatives of the government, which this story doesn't touch much, because they have all the leverage of the authorities that they can protect, immunity and everything else. However, all of this will change after 20 January and when this government falls, when citizens vote with all their heart for Serbia and Tomislav Nikolic, when there is a change in the country's top man, who will know how to lead this country and who will control all the privatisations made from 2000 to 2007. As for the amendment to Article 9, we requested that it be deleted, or I tabled an amendment on behalf of the MPs of the SRS. We believe that the proposed legal solution could be to the detriment of creditors, privatisation entities, so a decision to ban the collection during the privatisation process could be the basis for corruption. So we warn you and point out the shortcomings and the bad solutions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. You haven't listened since 2000, so you've come back to warn you that what Serbian radicals have warned you now. But I think it's already too late, because a huge amount of dirty money has entered Serbia and all this privatisation that has been done, and the rest is very little. We therefore warn you to adopt this amendment to Article 9, and we will see whether you will listen to the voice of reason and start to think about the citizens of Serbia, not just your own personal or party interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14757	The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14758	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, since the debate on the changes to privatisation, the Association of Workers and Pensioners of Beolot asked me to read part of a criminal report filed against the heads of Serbia's state lottery. Subject: Criminal charges against Belgrade's Beolota management, Serbia's "Serbian" and state lottery. "We file criminal charges against Bojana Kriste, Director General of the Serbian State lottery Branimir Bozovic, Executive Director of the Serbia State lottery Ljiljana Simonovic, Financial Director of the State lottery, Olivera Markovic, Director of Legal Affairs Slobodan Bojic, V.d. Director at "Serbialote", V.D. Director at Beolot and V.D. Director of the State lottery of Serbia, Franca Gerjava, by April 2007 v.d. The director of Beolot, Tomislav Ivkovic, the head of the "Serbian", the president of the Independent Union and several other natural persons." What's this about? The workers have spoken, asked to read it just when the debate was on privatisation, and for which, you will hear. "We file criminal charges, we express our reasonable suspicion that the above-mentioned abuses of their position by exceeding the powers in many cases and in many segments, so concisely and with intent, and for personal gain, have caused invaluable damage to society since July 2004, immediately after the adoption of the Law on Games on Happiness. In June 2004, the law on gambling, three subjects: Serbia's Luttrija, Uskočka 4-6, Belgrade; Belgrade's Luttria, Negoseva 13, Belgrade; National Lottery, Boulevard of Liberation, Novi Sad. On September 23rd, Bojan Kristo was appointed "the Official Messenger" as director of the Serbian State lottery. Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister at the time, comes up with a incorrect budget for the debt of lottery companies to the state. We demand an audit of the application of the law and an explanation of the gambling administration at the head with Vladimir Ilic. It was then found: "Serbian" 63% state capital, 37% lottery capital; "Beolot" 75% state capital, 25% lottery capital; "Panonia" declared bankruptcy and sale of assets. From June 2004 to 23 September 2004, examine how much money Bojan Kristo took from Beolot, with the approval of director Franca Gerjav and financial director Ljiljana Simonovic, on behalf of marketing. By January 2005, Bojan Kristo, as director of the State Lottery, based in the Beolota rooms, in Svetozar Marković, organizes a reorganisation, with the air help of financial director Ljiljana Simonović, director of Franca Gerjav and lawyer Olivera Marković, spends the resources of Beolot for continuous construction work, procurement, travel, bloated accounts through controversial marketing agencies, such as Silvertus. In January, Bojan Kristo comes to the office building "Serbialota", Uskočka 4-6, and makes a vacuum in the extraction of the 18th lottery. 1. In 2007, in fact, it abolishes games such as "Sport Forecast", "Two drawouts of Loto 7 out of 39", illegal sale of funds from other games to the weekly fund, for "Loto 7 out of 39" and concludes a contract with Pink TV to extract the lottery, and this contract to this day represents a business secret". I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14759	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 and suggested that it be deleted. Reason: ''Decision provided for by this member of the law which determines the amount of capital or property in the privatisation entity by the method of public auction is bad and can lead to various abuses. ''The Government's opinion is that the amendment is not accepted ''for the reasons why this provision was contained in the basic text of the 2001 law, and the proposed amendment is of legal and editorial character. Also, we point out that the amendment promoter misread the norm. The proposed member is not intended to provide for an auction to determine the capital value range, but to establish the capital value range for privatisation entities that are privatised by the auction method. It is true that in July 2001, the Privatisation Act entered into force, but it is true that you destroyed and destroyed everything that was done in that law for the past seven years. Only now did you remember to point out the need for our MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, more specifically to amend certain provisions of this law for a fairer privatisation. In fact, what has been decomposed in Serbia for seven years, it will be difficult for someone to take a hand to bring at least about those positions where both workers and employers were satisfied. But now with this bill of law you want to prevent the inflow of capital that comes from crime and corruption or money laundering. I ask you -- how, when you bought most of Serbia's companies with exactly that kind of dirty money, you now want to put order in the privatisation process, which the SRS MPs, as well as Serbian citizens, believe that as far as this is concerned, the bill is very late. Through the chronology of privatisations that you have done since 2001 and beyond, under suspicious circumstances, you can see a decrease in the value of the companies you privatized, suspicious buyers of companies in financial and criminal terms, and yours are, both business and personal friends. It was not then that the origins of the assets of these dubious businessmen who have become rich since the arrival of DOS to power, using your connections and privileges. Examples of such privatisations are full of Serbia, and I will list a couple of companies from the municipality from which I come from, means Prepolje, which are, as I have said many times from this pay phone, the textile combination "Ljubisa Miodragović", the shoe factory "Limka", which is currently in liquidation, and others have already been brought in the same way, such as the "Iris" factory, such as the "Poljoproduct", which was the main basis for the peasant to place its products, while today neither have anyone, except the various buyers, who blackmail them. I can also point out FAP, which is part of the Preboj car factory, means FAP with upgrades, which employs a total of 1,200 radios, while Prijepolje currently has 380 employees, although privatisation has not yet moved nearly. Mr. Minister isn't here, he's familiar with the fact that the Czech "Tatra" was interested, but that tender failed, as I recall. However, workers are unhappy about the upgrade in Prepolje. Looking at the last seven years of your reign, that all companies were either deliberately pushed into bankruptcy or liquidation, or privatized at extremely low prices, which at that time did not represent the true value of privatized companies. Workers are out of work, without the existence of their family members, with no prospect of re-employment. Most of these privatisations are carried out so that future owners of small money companies will receive both basic and crafts. No social or development programme has been done in many companies, while the role of the union to protect workers' interests has been reduced to a minimum, negligible, better said none. A growing wave of dissatisfaction is observed by workers of privatised companies in Serbia. The shares shared in privatised companies are mostly not worth much, nor is the stock market interested in them. Not only are the actions unscathed, but all the effort and roles, the investment of workers through their working lives in these companies has been destroyed and demoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14761	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of Serbia, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14762	I see you're uncomfortable, colleague Albianic, reporting to Article 93. Rules of Procedure and 226, you can give me the answers to all the questions. I'd like to know where Mladjan Dinkic is. He was 20 minutes this morning, I mean not so much, in the Assembly Hall, he went to work, and then, since he was obviously not informed that you had problems with the ruling coalition, I need to inform the citizens, which they could see, that you didn't have a quorum to vote the 2008 budget, it's time to tell us when the minister was coming back, so we can talk about the amendments that we submitted to the Law on Privatisation, because fellow Serbian radicals all day, today and yesterday, went away because of a birthday celebration, raised questions of abuse in the privatisation process from various parts of Serbia. So we didn't speak at all here, but with concrete examples of what happened, because of the fact that close associates of the DOS regime, above all DS, abused their position, or used it for themselves and for obtaining enormous wealth, and that the workers remained damaged. All of what my colleague Despotovic said, what I was saying yesterday about the car factory, "Philip Kljajic", "Rockets" Užice, "Magnochroma" Kraljevo, PIK Zemun, are just some in a series of examples where workers are in the process, so-called "Magnochrom". transitions ran out of anything, on the street, because the laws were bad, and you didn't want to accept either 2001 or 2004, or now in 2007 the SRS amendment. Indeed, the most interesting member of the 6th with the discharge of debts from the Republic Fund, one and the other, for social security, health care, the Republic Development Fund, and to explain to us, throughout the day we ask Mladjan Dinkic, his associates, miss and Mr. Assistant Secretary of State, cannot answer that right, whether these Serbian tycoons, who made a fortune during the DOS regime, paid the state all those debts they inherited when they bought those enterprises. It was easy to buy for two or three euros in factories and to keep people out of work, but their debt to the state and to other creditors is very large and we are interested in having someone answer us, as the group has multiplied, spread for years. Now it's an election campaign, and we have to be responsible people to give citizens a message -- who's the one who's going to deal with crime and corruption. Not Dinkic, not Tadic, because they are all his tycoons, not Bozidar Djelic, because he is one of them, Tomislav Nikolic wants. That is why, Mr Albianic, until you find out and find Mladjan Dinkic, I am taking the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, citizens of Kragujevac and Šumadija, to invite you as host of the event, to arrive at the start of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's winning campaign on Monday, December 24th, at 1800 hours. In Kragujevac, at the Lake Sports Hall, we hold a large pre-election rally, we expect a large number of people to arrive, much greater than the hall itself can accept, aware of the fact that Kragujevci and the Shumadins, just like all Serbian citizens, will vote with all their heart for change, for Serbia, for Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14763	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. As for the Minister's arrival, I apologize for having continued our work at an unusual time. He thought the sequel would be at 15.00 hours and he was informed to come and he's on his way, so I'm asking you to understand. The associates are here. Let's get back to work. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14764	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, I will continue reading criminal charges against Bojan Krist, Branimir Bozovic, Ljiljana Simonovic, Olivera Markovic, Slobodan Bojic, Franca Gerjav, Tomislav Ivković, Ljiljana Marinkovic, Miodrag Marinkovic, Stanimir Miljkovic, Nikola Carevic, Mališa Kristolu and Darko Nikolic. The Association of Workers and Pensioners of Beolota has given that criminal story. I'm sorry Mr. Dinkic isn't here, because Bojan Kristo is his student, his full. We'll continue to report it. So, as we've already read, Bojan Kristo is entering the Heartbolota Building 4-6. Bojan Kristo obtained an apartment of 208 square meters in the street of the International Brigades. Seven. (President: Please take care of the data. I'm reading a criminal report that the workers asked me to do. (President: Doesn't have to mean it's true. I didn't say it was true. Bojan Kristo buys 3,000 lottery deposit machines without a tender, referring to the previous tender of the director of "Serbialota" Ivo Lubarde. Car procurement "octavia damage" costs 5,000 euros, which is the regular price at Franco Gerjav, who signed it. Using Pink Air Taxi Dubai twice a week London-Dubrovnik. Currently there are 80 cars in the lottery, and they drive selected employees, they are available 24 hours, even go abroad for a vacation and receive petrol stamps at the expense of the lottery. In all tenders, Stanimir Miljkovic's firm, or his brother, if anyone more favourable, wins, the tender cancels. For these services to legalise illegal actions, the attorney-in-chief, Olivera Markovic, is in charge. Everything and everything is being bought, and there's a book of entry invoices to be checked. The only person with the right to play games is Serbia's state lottery, and Beolot and Serbia are agents. First, they received five percent of the total traffic, and later Bojan Kristo decided how many shares of spending and disbursement shares and bloated bills were signed by the then director "Beolot" Franc Žerjav, and then the director "Serbilot" Branimir Božovic. There are more interesting details about the purchase of software. For example. For one software, V.D. is signed. Director of "Serbia" Slobodan Bojic signs V.d. for one software. Director of Beolota Franc Žerjav, although they do not have the right to play games, thus neither the obligation to pay. In 2006 Franc Žerjav signs the sale of a business building on Svetozar Marković Street. 40, ground floor, Beolota property, since the state's capital is 75.5%, do not seek consent to the property of the Republic of Serbia and without asking for consent and obtaining permission to sell the business building "Metals Bank", and funds are transferred to the account of the Serbian State lottery. Ljiljana Simonovic, Finance Director and Olivera Markovic, a lawyer and director, participate. In what way, when are "Beolot" and Serbia's state lottery two different entities? In 2006, all "Beolota" business facilities from Belgrade's territory are transferred to "Serbialota", with employees who survived the cleanup of Bojan Krist and Ljiljana Simonovic. The inventory, tables, chairs are ruined, and the biggest customer is one of Branimir Bozovic's friends. The financial director of "Serbialota" Jelena Radusina received a contractual breakup or a technological surplus because she did not want to sign at the request of Bojan Kristi amortising a business building in Uskoga 4-6 for 30%, because Kristo has a habit of selling someone else's, and he takes the money. The head of the rolling stock and the warehouse Miodrag Marinkovic, a mechanic, is a storage room where instant-to-earth scratches and treasures are stored with prizes of goods, such as "mercedes" and coins, such as 50,000 euros and other small rewards. One series is 10 million pieces. There is a reasonable doubt that the printing is more by the rules of the determined quantity. What else is interesting? Ljiljana Marinkovic is the head of accounting in the State lottery of Serbia, and therefore accounts also have a pass-by. Lists for the lottery printing company "Intergraf" Kotjes, Krnjak, owned by Sister Predrag Markovic of the G17 Plusi former president of the Serbian Parliament. The leaves are of poor quality, a distorted bar code, so they are often thrown in a larger amount. Service of new lotto payment machines, Stanimir Miljkovic's company or brother, 12 pieces of machines for 10,000 euros. The Association of Workers and Pensioners Beolot has been forced to file criminal charges against the above mentioned persons for the reason that property in the privatisation entity has been destroyed and stolen, and employees have been fired and declared a technological surplus, while employees have been admitted to their posts through a youth cooperative, mostly children of directors and other management staff, which is illegal. The Association of Workers and Pensioners considers that the company's management deliberately prepares the bankruptcy of Beolota and that when they introduce bankruptcy, they also force bankruptcy and Serbia to prevent workers and pensioners from entering actions in the privatisation entity. The Association of Workers and Pensioners considers that there is a deliberate destruction of companies that are staffed and prepared for the organisation of gambling for the basic reason to take over the business in private management and to be resold to a third operator for which the commission would be taken. I have to say something about the character and the Sunday of Bojan Krishti. Mr. Bojan Kristo was awarded as director of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and here yesterday, Mr. Dinkic or one of the ministers explained to us a member of this bill's 3rd proposal, means crimes based on which some persons or business entities cannot be in the privatisation process, to participate in the process. He noted that someone who has a criminal record of these crimes cannot perform any functions in state enterprises. I'm asking the question, first of all, the Minister of Justice -- whether he's going to investigate, with criminal acts; and for the Home Secretary -- whether he's taken the necessary measures to deprive persons of their freedom and to launch an investigation against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14765	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, after the amendment. By reading someone's criminal record, Mr. Topalovic said they don't have to be correct. It's important to point out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14766	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, especially MPs who were MPs and in the previous term, remember very well that four years ago on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group from this pay phone, I warn of the incredible robbery that took place in the Serbia lottery by the arrival of Bojan Krist and...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14767	Please, let's take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14768	Please, I was bringing papers, if you didn't chair at the time or if you forgot or if it hurts that Bojan Kristo is from G17, that's your problem. I remind Serbian citizens that for nearly four years, the first robbery took place by turning the lottery of Serbia, a state-owned company, into Lutri Serbia d.o.o. She fun or fan firm. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, incredible robberies begin. I ask the Ministry of Finance to provide documentation to all MPs as to how much money has been collected whenever the lottery is concerned, that is, when all gambling is at stake, and they go beyond that, how much, according to the law, has been allocated from these funds for humanitarian purposes, how much further it has gone to competitors, participants in gambling get prizes if they have received them. How much money was robbed? I ask that the financial inspection enter the lottery of Serbia and finally put an end to one of these affairs. However, I also asked to examine where the money from Cyprus, which Dinkic found in Cyprus, was the last to find. I remind you that there were many ministers from the first DOS government and they were leaving and they found money, and they stayed there, and then they were gone. I want to point to another one, repeat, for another robbery involving flight control. The only firm that has between Serbia and Montenegro, the joint firm for Serbia-Montenegro, is flight control. Just because they're great valves both there and here so there's a lot to rob. Dinkic, however, no longer wears a sock and a kalashnikov, but he takes more than he has taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14769	Mr. Markovic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14770	I remind you of how he entered the National Bank. And let's remind ourselves, in that National Bank there were some images of incredible value, works of art, now they're gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14771	Mr. Markovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14772	Isn't that right, Mrs. Wolfie? There were images of incredible value, works of art in the National Bank. Now they're gone. I remind you, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, an incredible robbery; the Museum of Contemporary Art at the mouth; right now, from the museum to some depot of Mladjan Dinkic... (President: Mr. Markovic... )......................................................................................................... the relationship of the works of enormous value. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Serbia, after 3 February, we begin to clear up all criminal affairs, because then the president of Serbia will be Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and then all services will be able to do their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14773	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? (No) Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14774	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. In order to make it clear to the citizens, this is the article: ''The subject of the sale is 70 per cent of the capital that is privatised, unless the regulations governing the legal position of economic operators, i.e. the conditions and manner of individual business and other activities are arranged differently. The percentage of capital sold in privatisation entities with majority government capital whose legal position, i.e. the conditions and method of carrying out certain business and other activities is not regulated by specific regulations, is determined by the Government. The privatisation entity which is restructured under this law shall sell the total capital or assets. ''Now I will explain what my amendment is about and, in my view, where would be the advantages if these amendments were adopted and much better regulated not only by this member, but by the whole privatisation, especially by these public enterprises where the state is the majority owner. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 12, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The bill reads - in Article 12, in the point of view of the 1st percent "70" is replaced by the percentage "49". In attitude 2 after the word "determined by the Government", the point is replaced by a comma and the words "up to 49 per cent" are added. Item 3 is deleted. My motive was, not only what we talked about and what the MPs of the SRS and the other MPs were giving amendments, to fix this Privatisation Act, which is extremely important, not only for the citizens, but also for the state of Serbia. By the way, if we had these companies, companies, public enterprises, and we know for ourselves that the NIS story now, the energy system would be sold to the airport, Galenika would enter this part, these are companies very strategically important to Serbia. Especially if we start from NIS, we'd be able to get someone who buys 70% of the NIS stock to be a monopoliest. He would literally be a monopoliest, and he could tell us how the prices of the derivatives would go further, and that owner could influence the creation of a dinar course because of the increase in energy prices and the rest. If you look at the EPS now, if we go into this privatisation as proposed here with 70%, it would be truly devastating for the Serbian economy. If you sell someone 70% of the EPS, it would really be something that a customer who would buy EPS could literally get us into such an absurd situation by dictating his prices and raising the prices of all other prices to a little bit. He could simply determine whether to export electricity. We could even get into a situation where he, by his decision and by his board of directors, can decide that he simply will not now supply Serbia with electricity, but could simply export all that electricity. When we touch this why we went to 49%, we believe that 49% of the sale of capital is something that guarantees the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and shareholders of these public enterprises that the state will lead the development path of these companies. The state will try to make sure that the social programme is done so that the unions ask themselves, simply to make all these companies stronger, to prove themselves through the development programme, the social programme towards employees, through employment, through something that will bring more and more money into the budget and everything else. Secondly, companies that will be engaged and will try to acquire all ISO quality licenses, to improve quality control at a maximum level, where it could be reflected, when I say quality controls especially think of Galenika, which will be the subject of privatisation by who knows which way in this chronological series, where it is safe to control quality at a high level and that it will be something that would be absurd for most capital to be sold. Why the 70%? Now I'm going to tell you, I'm going to take an example of a company that explains why 70% is not desirable to sell. I'll take an example from Posavina Obrenovac. The auction date was 14. 09. 2006. The percentage of total sales capital is exactly 70%. The sale price was 56 million 309 thousand dinars, the starting price. An investment programme that was set up by five million 268,000 dinars. The buyer is "Interrexport d.o.o.", a limited liability society, means it fits with its capital, two tables, three chairs, and that's it. The buyer literally bought the company cheaper "Posavina" for 11 times because the estimated value of the same company's net capital is 11.178,785 euros, according to data obtained from the company. Minority shareholders, and there are 675 members, are not in the governing bodies, which is unimaginable. By the number of actions they must have a voice and must be in the meeting of shareholders. There's obviously a violation of the very part, where it appears that the majority owner is over 70. He's no longer interested in buying out that part of the action, but he can manipulate, abuse all this other data. I'll tell you how it turned out, how it was abused. The buyer owns a large number of companies, and still buys businesses, even on behalf of family members. For example, the S.H.I.E.L.D. company is reregistering the company, taking credit, although there is a ban on the same court. If he takes credit, and it's forbidden, he's mortgaged on something that literally he hasn't become yet, he hasn't become the owner. The department stores, in order for everyone to know that, the Posavina who had its most retail large facilities, and these are the Robe houses in Obrenovac, now nobody works there, they rent it now. The rent payments for 2006 and 2007 did not go through the company's giro-account. The Agency's control was more about the reform. The company has been reregistered, a major link between the privatisation agency and the company's management. A large counterfeit was made in re-registration. Minister, when such an offence is seen, it should immediately end the contract and launch sanctions against who was working. The company "Posavina" was founded in 1946, and the new owner reregistered it and states that it was founded in 2002, while Mr. Velimir Smolic, although the man, the same gentleman, came to Obrenovac only at the end of 2006. He couldn't even physically be here. Secondly, if I didn't say it was a public story that someone in the structure of the government was in that firm, I could tell a lot more examples about all the other events and companies. I will also say an example of "Nikola Tesla", not to repeat what was said about Mr. Krisht, but I am interested in how that employer who came, Mr. Kristo, and before him Mr. Nedeljkovic, has the right to abolish a union organisation that does not exist now, that literally pressure is being placed on employees at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport to go on their own voluntarily and get six net salaries for it. No social programme has been done, nor to be declared a technological surplus, or anything else. And now that I'm on my way from Nicole Tesla Airport, we know about VIP salons and how much money they've gone, the money that went to the CEOs on favourable terms and everything. He's planning to fire 400 workers. I have more information, but here's when the minister came, and I'd like to talk to you about Galenika. Mr. Minister, that's where I spoke last time, Mr. Djelic was there, but he wasn't very much referred to in Galenika, you know the situation in Galenika much better. You know that Galenika, by those transformations that were also owned by Mr. Milan Panic, has, on the other hand, changed its ownership structure by dividing the Galenika medications and the Galenika holding, that after that, there was also a lawsuit, against Mr. Panic. Mr. Panic was courted in Paris, as much as I remember three million reparations. That's what all the Galenika workers from their own incomes paid for. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to explain where that money was lost, which was literally separated, and the Galenika workers themselves paid for what someone else messed up. They had to correct the wrong Drina and pay by separating from their own personal incomes, they paid it all nicely. We know what it was like on October 5th, what happened. Already on the 6th with the masked hats in Galennik, I didn't specifically think about Mr Dinkic, he didn't go in then, but he knows the Galenika problem, they took the money they found in the vault, the dinars and the exchanges, and then they set off to unload the Galenika. I will specifically tell you, Mr Dinkic, Galenika in Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Russia has huge capital, its resorts, even some process parts of production we have had, and none of it has returned to Galenika's property. This was all happening during the period of DOS rule, in 2001. After that came the period of development and the creation of a new factory even during Panic when he came here. That factory still stands unfinished. I asked Mr. Djelic a question, and I'm asking you -- whose interest is it that this factory doesn't end this age and not take credit, even though the Italians did? When I mentioned it, then Mr. Djelic said that we would now take a loan from the Italians and we would finish that factory and go Galenika forward. Galenika is a company that must be a big firm, a good firm, with tradition in Europe and the world. Another problem is that Yugoslavia and Habitfarm, companies who want to take the monopoly on this domestic market. Secondly, I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in where Galenika's actions, which had shares in the Commercial Bank, in Yugoslavia, are nowhere to be mentioned now where these actions are, which is the value of the action, but simply everything that was from Galenika, it was all cleared up on all sides, and then Mrs. Slavica Radovic comes along, she picks up her funds, Mr. Strepčić picks up her assets, I don't say her own, but the resources from the workers who worked honestly, which is in the right place female population working in three shifts. So what I said was to move the ampoule department to Turkey, Portugal, so that Galenika would become as poor as possible and that Galenika would come, so that someone would buy those actions of Galenika and then he would tell us. What's going to happen, Mr. Minister, when 70 percent is sold, it's majority capital, the majority boss comes and says -- now I forbid it to be done, to be produced in Galenica penicillin. The Minister doesn't care, he chats like that. What's going to happen to that, and what's going to happen to the most popular drug since you came in 2000 to power, to besedin? They'll say there's no bensedin. This people will never be able to normalize themselves, with all that's happening to them. Obviously, the principle of privatisation that you advocate is 70% something that is very bad. And now I'm telling you, when someone buys 70% of the stock and becomes 70% of the owner of the capital, he doesn't even have a big interest in buying out those 30% shares. It's just that he's got most of it. Secondly, what he has, then he can put pressure on employees and on all other structures like the union, endanger them through work, have no developmental path at all, simply create a social programme, and by law you know all 10% of employers have the right to fire workers, send them to the bureau, without explanation and declaration of technological surplus, only over 10% is something that you have to do social program and everything else. I also say for the EPS, you will sell the EPS 70%. Customers come, they buy these tycoons, who hold that resistor around the power supply anyway, and they set the price of electricity that no citizen who works fairly will be able to pay. They say, "Now we're not going to give you electricity, now we're going to export some electricity, and you're going to freeze in the middle of the heat season." The second is the privatisation of JAT. We can privatize JAT, so others will fly, but the airport can't. We can't privatize the airport, because then someone will give us flight control and when they will fly, so when there will be airport fees. Our biggest taxes are certainly in the world now anyway. Galenika, I told you that, and all of this, NIS Jugopetrol, if you give them more than 70%, whoever comes will dictate the price of oil and oil derivatives. It's not just going to be reflected through the price of oil that the citizens are going to pay, but all the other energies are going to pull back, they're going to go up to a little bit, all the prices are going to go up, and then what are we going to talk about, what are we going to talk about? Then we'll talk - we've done the wrong thing, i.e. You've done a bad law, but then it'll be too late because someone's gonna take it. Furthermore, the one who has 70% of the capital, do you really think it's his interest that he invests so much in the company now when he has the majority, is not interested in printing the shares, or is getting out of the company's development plan to advance, to buy basic assets, machines, supply new plants, to expand production, to introduce new programs, to share profits with shareholders, to allocate funds to dividends that shareholders will get. All these shareholders have been fair so far, so they paid that profit, unlike Mr. Djelic who never paid for it, and you as Minister of Economy, you should start applying against Mr. Djelic and his actions at Meridian Bank. And that's where you made the precedent, so you put the law into that law so that someone who's been guarding the stock for three years wouldn't pay the profit tax now. How did all these people pay profit taxes? It's written directly because of Mr. Djelic. Let me just ask you one more thing, Minister. Since I see that Mr. Albianic is already substantiating that my time is slowly running out, our time is just coming, just to ask you, on what basis and law do foreigners who buy our shares here, from our successful companies, not pay taxes on profits when they sell? The citizens will also recognize it on January 20th – The heart for Tomu – when the real host comes, Mr. Toma Nikolic, you too, Mr. Dinkic, will not be able to do what you do, and especially Mr. Djelic and the other structures of the government that abuse everything they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14775	Here you go, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister of economy and regional development, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14776	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just answer this question about the Galenika. Therefore, given that Galenika, meanwhile, lost the dispute at international arbitration and that the state has an obligation to pay the corresponding amount on behalf of it, then the next replacement was made. The state will pay that debt, it has taken over to pay Galenika's debt, and on the other hand it has also taken over the stakes that Galenika has in all the banks that you mentioned to businesses. So, there's been a conversion. It seems to me that this debt, perhaps now I can't remember, is something more than 30m euros in the end, which was negotiated to pay, although arbitration has reached about 50, I think, millions of euros. The state, therefore, continues to serve. She paid off, I mean, if not for the entire debt, but then a good part of the debt, and she took over in return the contributions that Galenika has in these companies and debts to the RZZO, the Health Insurance Fund, so that the essential state is 100% the owner of the Galenika. Whether through the Health Insurance Fund, these shares, if they are not formally taken over now, will be taken over, contracts will be concluded, as it is simply not appropriate for the state to pay for Galenika's debt from the budget and to keep the stakes. Therefore, the ownership structure is now essentially 100% state, regardless of whether the Health Insurance Fund is co-owner and how much budget. What was the last thing you were talking about? It's about public enterprises. The idea is, our proposal, that public enterprises should certainly be listed on the stock market and that the minority stake in Belgrade Airport is offered on the capital market, up to 15%, plus 15% which is free of charge. In other words, the state will certainly remain 70% owner of the airport. Afterwards, the question was, should the state privatise most of the airport? Our plan is not to privatise a majority airport, but a minority stake to privatise itself through the initial offer of stock on the market, to then quote airport actions on the stock market to know what market value is, to enable the greater public to work, better management, better business. The same is the plan for EPS, Galenika and also for Telekom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14777	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Vlado Sekulić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14778	Mr. Minister, this is the last question I asked you to explain to me how do foreigners who buy stock here on the market when they sell not pay capital gains, and we all other Serbian citizens pay? Before that, there was a question for Mr. Djelic. You, as Minister of Economy, would have to know if he had sold those shares if he had paid in the municipality where he lives and how much it is. If that's 10 million, let me explain, 10 million is a package of shares, he got another million on the dividend, it's 11. If he sold all that, 20% must pay, that's two million and 200 grand. Two million and 200,000 euros were to be paid. It would have been noticed somewhere if he'd paid off, and this poor guy who sells five shares doesn't pay some five grand, well, interest him right away, even in prison he's threatened, by confiscation of property, and he's got nothing. You confiscate that fairy he bought a new one, we'll leave his aunt's couch, so we don't touch that couch so he doesn't get angry. Here, let me tell you about Galenika. You said it well, you know where Galenika has the stake. In the Commercial Bank, Hemofarm and Velefarm. There was a lot of investment in Velefarm. If you remember, and I see you don't know much, now you've apologized, so I figured you didn't get along well with Galenika. Galenika is the company through which Velefarm was founded, and Jugochemija, and Mileusnic, who was the director of the Galenika, so all of them worth it, are all of them, Stipčić and the rest of the society that I have given you, are all of them from this regime, and everyone has taken something from this Galenika. Secondly, Galenika settled her obligations. Shall we talk about Prolek too? Sir, where did the money go from selling Prolek? You know what Prolek is, in November 29th, the Galenika factory that left. The Galenika workers reconciled their obligations to Panic, but at the RZZO, as you said, that's where the money was directed. Where's that money and who spent it? That's what we need you to answer, not to say that you've taken over now, so you've made peace with Panic, and even with what was Galenika's, you're taking back what was theirs. Here, for the sake of debate, I'll be nice, but I'll give you what, frankly, you know, they've ordered employees of the Galenics. It is mostly a female population. If we care about 2,000 women running out of work, some foreign companies are bringing in drugs here, and now it's just one segment, a suspicious quality and unexplored drugs, and we have such a good company here. The second is that you want to make a monopoly in some companies, in some drug companies. It is known to be said by the largest mafia in health, that this is where the world's largest money is turning. Now I'm going to hand this over to you with my hand and hand and I'm going to hand over this material to you, there's nothing to hide here. You judge for yourself and answer whether it's good or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14779	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14780	Just a quick answer to this question. If Serbia has signed a double taxation agreement with a country, then if the country's citizens buy shares in our market do not pay a capital gains tax and even a legal person from that country with whom there is a double tax avoidance agreement they are exempt from paying the capital gains tax. That's the answer to this question. As for Galenika, I repeat once again, the idea is to provide funds for investment and investment in Galenik through I-pi (IPO-initial public offering). So Galenika has a good plan to make two more drug factories, to modernise that production. She'll do it by withdrawing credit funds on very favourable terms and starting immediately to build the first of these factories, it's a solid drug factory. After that, it is planned to go with an initial offer of actions on the Galenika Stock Exchange in 2009, where all full-year citizens of Serbia will be able to buy up to 5,000 euros in the maximum amount of Galenika shares per citizen and thus those who want to place their capital in Galenika's actions, and the money provided not to the state but to the Galenica itself, which will finance this arrangement and another investment. This is how we expect to significantly increase the value of Galenika. It currently stands at around 200m euros. We expect it to increase significantly over the next two years through new investments that are going on immediately, and will be partially refinanced by the funds raised on the stock market. The idea is that it remains a Serbian company, with it not being 100% state-owned, but will be the majority state-owned, while 30% will be small shareholders, citizens who get free shares, as well as those who buy them on the stock market when the initial offer of shares is held.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14781	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to welcome the delegation of the strike committee of Toplici County's military reservers, who are upstairs at the gallery and fortunately, things about their protest, which is now entering the 100th day, are slowly starting to improve. We had a meeting with Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. The strike reservers have delivered a number of judgments, first-degree and second-degrees, from which they can be seen in which way the judicial authorities in the Toplic district function, first and foremost in Kursumlia and Prokuplje, as different arches of justice, how selective justice is divided there, how there are similar and inadequate, how there are citizens of first, second-row and entropy order, and I think things will go better because Mr. Petrovic will take steps within the limits of his powers to move things from the dead point at the level of the judicial authorities. What is particularly important is Minister Petrovic's promise that, with regard to the second dimension, human, moral, ethical, social situation in which we are located, the situation in the Toplic district and in southern Serbia, at the government level, some common language will be tried to compensate people for the fees for outstanding daily fees. They will come out on their own with a proposal, then the government at some inter-resor or inter-minister level will come out again with an offer of another kind, if of course it is true. There have been various attempts at promises. So there won't be a promise of crazy joy. Their protest continues until their demands are met, but I think this is for the first time a hint that people in the government, including Minister Ljajic's personal position, are trying to see the dramatic situation in southern Serbia and especially in the Toplic district, meet events. Another welcome to the Toplih County Reserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14783	Dear reservers, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Vujadinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14784	Dear gentlemen, a very brief clarification of the general nature. I think that the amendment of Col. Seculic probably made a mistake because practically this Article 12 changed nothing in article 25 of the basic law. So, in the sale of our capital there are three types of enterprises. The first type is 70% of the capital of former social enterprises sold. It's the first type of company. The second type of sale is restructured enterprises. There were 70 of them, 35 of them, and there's all the property being sold, 100% of the property being sold. That's the other guy. The third type are public enterprises that are not practically sold yet, but only 15% are allocated for free action. And what Mr. Sekulić said, he's afraid, maybe he'll be 49, maybe he'll be 70. So, public enterprises, the third type of republican importance, have not yet come to the privatisation agenda and are selling them to the government with a special act. Therefore, each of the 17 companies must have its own special sales law, after the privatisation adviser proposes to sell, and in that sense Mr Seculić's fear is immaterial in relation to public enterprises. Personally, if someone asked me, I would run for the majority or all of these public enterprises to become most private, given the very problems you're talking about, both the salary and all the other inefficient business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14785	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14786	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, for us MPs, this topic is interesting and I must say that what I heard from my colleagues, Vujadinovic, at the end of the day, as he spoke from his corner, caused further interest, since Mr. Vujadinovic's position as a member of the DS parliamentary group is very interesting for the reasons why this attitude does not share the leadership of his party, so we will be in a position to follow very interesting and relations within the party regarding this issue. I'm not saying this by chance, but before I mention the democratic position, I want to say that the SPS position on whether the state should or should not have a majority package of actions, to be the owner of a majority share of capital in public enterprises long known. We think the state should have a majority package of actions, own 51% shares and we think there's a lot of reasons for that. I should remind myself that we and when we supported the previous minority government of Mr. Kostunica made it clear to him, and to others publicly, that if the government had come out with another concept then that they would no longer support this government and that it might have been one of the reasons why this issue did not come to the agenda in years when we supported the government. Now we're in a different situation, now we're an opposition, we've kept our attitude, and what the government will do is we'll see. Meanwhile, some other circumstances have obviously changed within the ruling coalition, so this issue will be very interesting when it comes to the agenda. Every company is public. I'm not saying this by accident. What I'm saying has nothing to do with any of the ministers individually. It's about the conceptual differences that we socialists have with others. We think that in the privatisation that follows, privatisation of public enterprises, the state should be the majority owner. There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, these public enterprises, EPS, NIS, PTT, etc., and how they affect the content of ordinary people's lives. The products they offer are such a character as to tang the lives of ordinary people, especially in the situation in which Serbia is, in a very difficult situation, with a huge number, over a million and some unemployed people, with an economy that did not give the expected results, with a privatisation that was unfortunately bad, and in our opinion it was not catastrophic, and so to speak, it was not an incentive to Serbia's economic development. So, in such conditions and how important it is that what the state offers through public enterprises as its product, as its service, be available to citizens and be at that level that citizens can pay for it. An objective state can, when the state of society is extremely difficult as it is with us, I say, a million and some unemployed, a few million people on the edge of existence, several hundred thousand living below that threshold of normal life of ordinary people, so the state can then, through public enterprises, lead social policy. You will say now, these economists, supporters of the liberal market, will say yes, but then it is another economy, that is, counterarguments, but it is a simple question, so what is the function of the state, whether it should take care of its people or most citizens on its territory, or should be subordinated to the interest of a small number of people and what they are interested in, and that is profit. Then, objectively, it must also be seen, or seen, that the products that these public enterprises serve, which they offer to citizens, have their importance for the general economic situation. You see, as soon as there's a change in prices, let's say, gasoline or a change in the price of electricity, there's a chain of producers, who say, we have to increase prices, there's an increase in your price of heating, and this further increases your transport price, and then the price of this and the price of that, and then we get as the conclusion of the whole story that the price has to be increased, i.e. that inflation has increased to a few degrees or so. That public enterprises have yet another very important function, with their importance, with their potential, whatever they mean in the life of a society, in this case Serbia, it and how they can be an incentive for economic development, above all I think of these large public enterprises, EPS and NIS, but the rest are not for underestimating either. So the point of the story is, and how important it is for the state to be the majority owner. After all, we don't need to be smarter than others or put our heads in the sand, so that we ignore the experiences of others, we should already see how these issues are resolved in other countries and then, take care of the economic situation of the Republic of Serbia and the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, apply the model of privatisation of public enterprises that are optimal for Serbia. I'm saying this because even in Western countries, regardless of whether it was left or right, it happened that in a time period public enterprises were privatizing, and it was a few years ago, so it was determined that the results were not expected or vice versa, that this had a negative meaning for the lives of the citizens of that country, and then the state decided to rationalise again, or to buy a majority package of actions. So, the state and how it takes care of the public sector and public enterprises, their offers. I think this issue is extremely important for ordinary citizens, and it seems to me that there are no more important questions for them, because it must be said that the state has provided for these public enterprises, precisely because of the character of these companies, a monopoly role, a role on the market, and has therefore set out all those directions that are interesting for future customers. Because the customer won't come just like that, enter this market, and start a job over again, but it comes largely to the finished thing. I'm saying this by no chance, I'm absolutely convinced that a number of large capitalists, tycoon, are thinking about what expression I can use, or huge enterprises, multinational companies, measure these companies and make a strategy on how to become a majority owner. I'm not saying this by accident. For those fellow MPs who are a little longer in this assembly, I will remind them only of the atmosphere that ruled two and a half years ago, in the spring of 2005, when we had one law here in the assembly debate, it seems to me that the NIS Law was a law on the organisation of NIS rather than a law on the privatisation of NIS, but those weeks that preceded the law, a few days after the law was passed, the atmosphere in the press was so heated that it was thought, really, if adopted, disaster, and if not adopted, disaster. It was an ordinary law on the organisation of NIS, for MPs who voted and for most ordinary people at all whether NIS was organised in three or four generals, business units. For those of you who had and have a strategy on what to do with NIS, it was important, because one part of that lobby that plans to do what tomorrow with NIS had a strategy, a scheme, a division of how to get there. I know that there has been such severe pressure, even lobbying within the ruling coalition by some tycoons, from man to man, from MPs to MPs, that this law is not voted out, not to be part of the assembly procedure and simply to challenge the crisis and the government's fall in this matter, which says it wasn't even about insignificant law. So someone was already preparing for what we're talking about at the end of 2007 and the beginning of 2008. In fact, it would be logical for the state of Serbia to see what is its economic interest and to be managed by that interest throughout this story about public enterprises. It's not a meaningless thing at all. Here it is essential that public enterprises have their own quality, their products that citizens need, and it would be logical for the state, as someone who owns these public enterprises, to see how through their management, how these public enterprises operate, whether they really justify the entire investment done years and decades ago, whether there are optimal numbers of employees, whether they have extra employees, whether they all get a reward in relation to the work they invest in these companies. I'm saying this by no chance, that's one of the questions that can be dominant. Otherwise, the claim that there will be no interest in buying, or in the actions of these companies, if the package is minority, is not objectively correct. There were other companies that had minority and majority, so no one bought them, because the buyer had no expected profit. The question now arises, who wants to achieve that expected gain, he may have completely different interests from the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying this because, you remember in the 1990s, the Socialists have been fiercely criticised since the opposition, and some have now been in power, and some have been, that privatisation, or 49% of Telekom, is a terrible move, a bad business move for Serbia, and it has shown that 49% of Telekom was then sold for 1,536.000,000 marks, and it seems to me that neither Greeks nor Italians, who bought parts of that public enterprise, then did not mind that proportion, because apparently they saw by buying that part that there are economic interests and that there are economic reasons, and of course they would make profits. They didn't just buy it. I refer to this as one case that was then criticised, and later when we entered the privatisation after 2000, it proved that these 1,536,000,000 marks had far more weight than it seemed in the 1990s. Why do they have more weight? Because privatisation in Serbia has been done in a way that 2,000 of the best companies have been sold for about two billion euros. So, you have 49% of a public company with 1,536,000,000 marks and two thousand best companies, that was the government's claim, with about two billion euros, not to speak that relationship between the mark and the euro, and then you come into a situation where the privatisation that was made was objectively done in such a way that it was not even economically fair, there were underestimations of the value of the company. You remember how many times there have been words from this pay phone from ministers after 2000 that no one will buy any businesses, so they have to be sold for two or three euros or something stronger, and then it happens that these buyers, after six months, after a year, sell these companies not for 15 euros, but for several million euros and, of course, draw huge profits. The purchase of attractive businesses in the city center, with huge assets, which was scattered somewhere along the edges of large cities, and only by selling these parts of these companies they returned what was invested. So, the privatisation that was done at the time was not only economically fair, it was neither economical, it was objectively used to launder money and to pour that money into the pockets of a small number of people and, unfortunately, it was bad and -- either way, it didn't happen again. This is what I'm saying, now I'm going back to the beginning of that story with my colleague Vujadinovic, we SPS MPs had in January of this year, when it came to forming a government, talks with DS leadership on other issues, but we also talked about the future of public enterprises in Serbia. At that time, we were told publicly, and I hear that some of the DS members have confirmed it, perhaps not everyone knows, so colleague Vujadinovic here has reason to come forward in this way, but well, he will also know in time, so he will have the opportunity to correct his position, that they share our opinions that we have been representing back for years - that the state should be the owner of a majority package of actions when it comes to public enterprises for all of these reasons. I think that, regardless of how any party explained that position, the most important thing is that there are so many MPs in parliament who will vote the law that public enterprises are owned by a majority state, because only then will they be able to prove themselves in the right way and that concern about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is no need to be afraid that they will not have a partner of the economically interested to buy part of public enterprises' actions. Do not be afraid, they will have, they will find here and how much interest they are, only a question at the height of the profits they will make. If they claim to have a majority action package, they expect an enormous profit. If they buy a piece of minority stock, they expect a smaller profit. I don't share my opinion with my colleague Sekulic when he says he's not going to sell electricity here, he's going to sell it to another. No, if a majority package were to be in private hands, it would sell that electricity here and how, but not at a price of five cents, but at a price of 12 cents, because then the profit would be far higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14787	The word has a folk MP Vlado Sekulic, then Zdravko Topalovic, then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14788	I thank you, Mr. Albianic, but I have to make a protest on my behalf and on behalf of the SRS and the audience protest, to you, you represent that President of the Assembly, in the part of the speech, when I was talking about Galenika, the tone was turned off and no one could hear what I said, which names I said, which questions I asked the minister. We have witnesses, they called from Vrbasa, Novi Sad, Belgrade, New Belgrade, where I came from. Then suddenly a ton disappeared. If we need someone here to translate with their fingers or synchronize something else, that's another thing. If someone's afraid of the truth I said, here's the minister, when he came out, did he challenge my allegations?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14789	I'm asking the service to deliver to us if it's okay with the TV feed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14790	Check it out. I'm not saying anything in my head. It's a degradation of all of us, and it's also a degradation of the truth, so the truth can be found out. I didn't do anything negative. Mr. Vujadinovicu, you said that I had said the amendment differently, I pointed out in my amendments, I'm explicit on these 49%. It says -- when it decides and determines the government's second principle, I added up to 49 percent, that when the government is allowed something to decide to be 49, and I explained why I insist on 49. So I said that this position was deleted in the privatisation entity that was restructured, in accordance with this law, the total capital or property was sold, I emphasized it, because I went chronologically and I wanted to explain it. I'm going to give you one more example, why I'm saying that "Gallenika" AD, "medicines", and then shifts to "Gallenika" AD DP, "Gallenika" and "Gallenika" workers have paid themselves back the debt Mr Panic received in arbitration. That money was being paid into the RZO, where after that money went missing, I asked Minister Dinkic. I said that this factory that we're talking about now, the day I called Mr. Djelic and told him that he was going back and forth on purpose, the factory exists, I've been working 23 years in Galenica, and by chance, that part of the holding, and then our minister was Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković, Galenika Holding was privatized under a special regime, 60 percent of the action went to free employees, 30 percent in the second round and 10 percent in the PIO fund. Everyone who got that stock profited, got a job internship, could buy in the second round every year, I say, Galenika shareholders, Fitopharmacies, where I've been since 2000, and before that, I've been at Galenika Plastics, getting a dividend, like a successful firm, a good firm, because we've been privatized and we've kept that capital. If I went back to Panic's system as he was blackmailing other stock companies at the time, then there were stock companies in holding and how he demanded that he take over the whole Galenika, but fortunately we had a good director, Mr. Nedeljko Puhar, so he said "Galenika Fitopharmacija" is stronger than Panic, so that she could buy him, and not he buy us all in the package. Mr Dinkic only has one question to explain to me when I asked questions about Djelic and his actions, and I deliberately asked why the foreigners do not pay? To answer whether Mr Djelic has dual citizenship, so he does not pay the share tax on that principle? If he has dual citizenship, French and ours, and on this principle he does not pay the share tax, if he has dual citizenship or French citizenship, how is he the Deputy Prime Minister, how is he a foreign citizen? Have Mr Dinkic explain to me whether he meant Mr Djelic when he said the stranger was not obliged to pay for the reciprocity. To know, our citizens of Serbia are on another market, buying other people's businesses. In particular, if Mr Djelic is a French citizen, who bought our citizen in France any action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14791	The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14792	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I don't know if I should quote it, Mr. Albianic. (President: No. No, no, no, Thank you. First, let me give you an explanation. So, no one filed criminal charges against employees, i.e. Those responsible for Serbia's state lottery, Beolot and Serbia, but the Association of Workers and Pensioners Beolot, Novopazarska 10, Belgrade. I have a question for Mr Dinkic, he's not in the O.R. right now, but let his associates take note, because I expect an answer from him. Article 3 of this Privatisation Act provides for anyone who cannot be a privatisation entity, who cannot participate in privatisation by buying privatisation entities. My question is, as Mr Dinkic explained yesterday, and who can't do everything in the authorities of the state administration and in public enterprises, based on which Bojan Kristo is the director of the "Nikola Tesla" airport when there is criminal charges against him and there are reasonable doubts about the unprecedented theft of Serbia's state lottery, as read in the allegations of this criminal report. That's the first one. I asked the question, I can't get an answer that he's not in charge of this or that minister, it's a question for the justice minister -- when will this criminal report be in the regular procedure? The second question of the police minister, what are the findings of the MUP, and were there any investigative actions in the Serbian State lottery on a number of labour irregularities? So I expect answers, no matter what Bojan Kristo is from G17 plus and the full moon of Mladjan Dinkic. Once again, if it is true that Bozidar Djelic is a French citizen, we expect him to be a minister in the government of Mr Sarkozy, not in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14793	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic, for both you and the others, we can't do it by article 225 and 226, because Article 103. The Rules of Procedure require that we talk about what is on the agenda, and at the end of our working hours we can ask questions. The word has been made by the MP Slobodan Marash in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14794	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, and in relation to Article 134. Rules of Procedure. I ask for an explanation from the chairman, or vice-president of the Assembly, and also from the speaker of the Assembly - is there a ruling majority in this assembly? I'm reporting under Article 134, on this article: "The National Assembly is passing laws, budgets" etc. We should've brought the budget and voted it out by December 15th. Mr. Albianic, today is December 21st, it was scheduled to vote in 12.00 hours and Mr. Dulic scheduled it yesterday around 13.00 hours. Mr. Chairman today, Mr. Mrkonjic, moved the vote by 13.00 hours and at 13.00 hours on a Volsheban request, it was not required to put cards in parliamentary units, to see how many MPs there were in the assembly, for the simple reason that the president of the Assembly was aware that there was no majority. Who didn't secure most of it? She didn't provide most of the most likely DSS parliamentary group. Is there a ruling majority here? Are we going to adopt the budget? We broke Article 14 anyway. The budget system law was due by December 15th. The citizens are probably aware of that. You are warning us that we cannot report by members of 225 and 226 and you are violating the Rules of Procedure, because we can report by any member of this Rules of Procedure. (President: You can't. We can. I beg you not to enter my word again, for I am not in your word. When you show me a member by whom you can enter my word without being offensive to anyone here, then you can talk like that. Stop the practice of breaking into the words of the MPs. So, is there a ruling majority, why did we not vote on the budget, when we will vote on the budget, when will the session on Kosovo be scheduled? I think it is extremely incorrect for MPs, according to citizens, that on such important issues as the budget, such as the Kosovo session, we do not have any information, here at 3:35 p.m., Friday, the day when it was due to vote for the budget. I ask you again, Mr. Albianic, to give us some information, so we know why the budget hasn't been voted on. I have another question: where is the minister who is in charge here to answer the questions of the MPs concerning the amendments that MPs are making and if they ask him any questions? He's gone again. We know he blew candles yesterday, but where is he today? 106 amendments were submitted to the Budget Law, the only one adopted, which was submitted by the head of the DS parliamentary group. See now the Privatisation Act, only those amendments submitted by the parliamentary group from whose ranks the minister comes. Either the minister was in a terrible hurry, so he couldn't write the law properly or only his MPs knew how to submit the amendment. You are putting MPs and the entire congregation in an incorrect position by your conduct. So, the ruling majority obviously doesn't exist in this assembly, and it's not fame today, so there's no one from the DSS except one or two MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14795	Mr. Marash, thank you for taking care of the ruling majority. National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14796	Mr. Chairman, you're obviously having fun chairing the National Assembly, you're joking, you're funny, you're in a situation where Serbia is the subject of fun, larceny and circus. (President: No. You can't behave like that, Mr. Albianic. I've warned you many times that it's often better to keep quiet in life. You don't always have to demonstrate what everyone sees, and I won't tell you what it is, it's seen and present in the hall, and the citizens of Serbia see it. What I want to advertise is Article 27. In fact, how long will this parliament and those who chair it be played by both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia? When will a session be held to discuss Kosovo and Metohija? It's a shame and a shame. The parliaments of most European countries deal with Kosovo and Metohija, but not the parliament of Serbia. Mr Milentievich, when will the Kosovo and Metohija Committee be? You can tell us or get out of the way, don't be the head of that committee. Why don't you schedule a committee session? Is there no quorum again? Are we going to listen to your cheap excuses? Or does the president of your party or the man from Kosovo, who is your master? We had Mrs. Petkovic over a month since she was exposed to the attack, and there is no session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Are we going to have a session of the Assembly, and before that, we will not have a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija? Let's get out of this fake patriotism, these cheap stories, geese and stuff. This doesn't apply to you, I'm just asking you when will be the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, because if you can't run that Committee, say, "I can't, can't, don't give me, goodbye, I'm going to ask those in Kosovo who rule Kosovo, they give donations, I'm more interested in them." We listen to the media that local and provincial elections will be scheduled. When will there be laws on the agenda? Do you know that today is December 21st, that we can't even finish this debate, and you want some laws, it comes to you, to bring it to the end of December? It is an insult to the Serbian citizens' intelligence. It's nonsense and it really doesn't make any sense. One question, very briefly: what about PIC Zemun's privatisation, who took the money, why did they shut up about the affair? Is it those who have some obscenities, allegedly criminals, bought hundreds of acres of PIK Zemun, of which 500 acres of city-building land, or was it bought by one of the favorite government tycoon and one of the former vice presidents of the government, also a tycoon, and now shut up, such as the faster and better privatized "Zelvos" to hide where 10,000 euros have gone?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14797	The word has a folk MP, Vlad Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14798	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Batic, you've made a good start on your exposure to the Rules of Procedure -- to intend all lies and deception, that would be the best solution for this assembly and for this home. However, I will have to answer you. I have presented three times the reasons why the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee on the case of our colleague Stojanka Petkovic has not been held. I won't do it again. Every day, either by the press or by this pay phone, you deceive the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, and I'll tell you the reasons. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee has three options for being scheduled. The first is to appoint the chairman of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. The second business provision is that five MPs can schedule it with their signatures and members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. He's the third president of the assembly. If there is such a need, go ahead and make an appointment. On a daily basis, you state that in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, indiscipline and unhappiness. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee has 15 members. One of them is you. Have someone come out of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee and confirm these allegations. I call on all members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to come out and confirm what is daily the folklore of Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14799	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14800	Mr. Milentievich, it is not said that the board's session can be scheduled by five MPs, but by five MPs. After all, you're a folk MP, and you need a little bit of grammar and language to come into harmony. Second, do you know what you just said? You said you didn't need to schedule a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. That's what you just explained. Since there is no need for you, it can be done by five MPs or by the president of the Assembly. Do you know what you said? You said you were not interested in Kosovo and Metohija. How does the needs of the SB, the Parliament of Europe, parliaments of almost all countries, and no Serbian Parliament? That doesn't make sense. There's no need for you, and if you need someone else to do it. It's your job and your duty or don't do it. And there's no folklore and there's no deception. Everything I said about this pay phone about fraud, deception, abuse of your midwives, our countrymen at KIM, those who dive crocodile tears, with them Kosovo and Serbia are growing smaller, and their accounts, their companies are getting bigger and bigger. That is why there is no session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. When I say that, since there are no answers and arguments, then I am Egyptian, Roma, gypsies, etc. You can't hide the truth that way. Yours is to schedule a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee or say - I resign because they don't give me those from my party to schedule it, because they have some other interest to hide the truth, to tell hollow stories. They are blinder than Filip Višnic, a blind pirate. Don't try to deceive everyone like that again. You said that if there was a need, let five MPs or president of the Assembly do so. Great, so there's no need for you. I will now ask my colleagues, I will make an immediate effort to ask five members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to initiate the session's appointment, as there is no need for that, according to the chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14801	National MP Vlad Milentijevic. Please, let's finish the controversy and proceed to the amendments, if possible, without the heat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14802	Mr Batic, again, seven sessions of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee have been held so far, whenever necessary. I say again, if there is a need for the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to be held, I will schedule it. That's not controversial. But, come on, I said about this pay phone and I won't go out again, some other 13 MPs, except for me and you, they say there's a need, and I'll make an appointment right away. That's what I said 15 days ago and now I'm telling you. What you're talking about in the field I've never slowed down, possibly there is, but you're saying that chaos, unhappiness and dissatisfaction in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I won't agree with that, and that's why I'm going out for a pay phone, because there are 13 other members, somebody get out and say that's the way it is in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14803	Thank you, Mr. Milentievich. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14804	Thank you very much, Mr. Albianic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr Albianic, you have just now, this does not apply to these members, one of your colleagues said that I cannot allow MPs to appear on the basis of these two members until the debate that is under way is over, which is counter-business and one of your arbitrary interpretations and I strongly recommend that you no longer play with the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to ask the President of Parliament, who is currently absent, but still, all the MPs know, and this speech is primarily because of the public, because of the citizens of Serbia, it was scheduled for today at 1200 hours to vote on the budget law. Also, when we discussed amendments to the budget law, you and the other chairman warned the MPs that they should not be spoken according to the Rules of Procedure, but that we should talk exclusively about amendments, because you were in a hurry somewhere, the budget law should be passed, in accordance with the Budget System Act, by December 15th. You never gave, nor did you, nor did the resolute minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who was there, explain why this was not done until December 15th. We didn't ask you, but the question we're asking today is this -- why didn't today's 12:00 vote on the budget law, why was that deadline moved to 13.00 hours, why didn't the President of Parliament determine whether there was a quorum or not, because on this table it said that 118 MPs were in the O.R.? What kind of deal does the real deal get? What kind of deal does it make? Why do you allow, Mr. Albianic, that Boris Tadic manages both your budget and all regulations? Nothing's funny, Mr. Stanimirovic, it's sad. You may laugh at the happiness that you don't have a government anymore, because in every normal country, if you don't vote the budget, there's no government anymore. Only in the state of Serbia, in order to preserve the chairs, can anything, and beyond the law, and beyond the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution. Question for Mr. Dulic - why didn't the budget law vote today? The debate is over, he scheduled the day and time for the vote and did not say why it was postponed, nor to what deadline it was postponed. Will this be voted by the Assembly in this session or in some new one, we expect an answer from the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14805	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The question is addressed to the president of the National Assembly. As for Art. In the 225th and 226th, which are addressed to me, I try to work on the Rules of Procedure and Rule 103. The Rules of Procedure obliges us to talk about what's on the agenda. The MPs can do what they want. It's our inspiration to do what's right. I really can't stop you from picking up, and I'm not interrupting you from saying everything. National MP Slobodan Maras according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, MP of the People's Republic of Rade according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14806	Mr. Chairman, what you're saying is completely incorrect. I reported in accordance with Article 27. What's the job of the President of the Assembly, or of the one who's changing it? It is to care for the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that it be recorded that in the voting day that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure because, first of all, you have defended the MPs from reporting to MPs per article. 225th and 226th and because... (President: I warned you, I did not defend you, you answered yourself. )......................................................................................................... and because you constantly enter the word of the MPs and comment after they leave, trying to be funny. Please put this to a vote in voting day. Mr. Albianich, where are we in a hurry? You do not allow MPs to report on Article 225, or comment that it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, although that is not true, and then we come to the day of voting on the budget, today at 1200 hours it was supposed to be a vote, it was moved by 13.00 hours, and what, there is no ruling majority. So, we're six days late, as Parliament, to pass the law. For what? Number one, because the government sent it to us a month later in the congregation. Two, because the ruling majority was not in the O.R. when it was due to vote on the budget law, the most important law the Assembly passed. I believe that it is clear to the citizens what is the interest of the ruling majority. You're making a story, now I'm going to explain to my colleague, you're making a story about how there's a conflict between DS and DSS and you're cheating on the public. The other day we read that you shared another board of directors and that a person from another party is coming to the head of one public firm than he has been before and that members of the board of directors, among other things, and from those two parties, means DS and DSS. You're still sharing the spoils, and you're distracting the public that you're in some kind of conflict. That's not true. I have to do it again. Boris Tadic is a candidate for Vojislav Kostunica in these elections, and citizens should know that. That if they vote for Tadic, they will vote again for Kostunica, as it was in the past republican elections. You went with the story that Bozidar Djelic will be prime minister. What happened? Whoever got twice as many votes is the prime minister again. Don't distract the citizens. Be here in the Parliament of the ruling majority and vote at least the most important law we have, which is the budget law. Don't make the citizens suffer for it. Mr. Chairman, please stick to the Rules of Procedure and don't violate him. You're supposed to be an example.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14807	Thank you, Mr. Marash. I pray that in the day of voting vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Batic. Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14808	I thank you, Mr. Albianic, for thanking the colleagues who gave up these intentions regarding the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the SPS, Col. Milisav Petronijevic submitted an amendment to the following content - in Article 12. The draft law amending the existing Article 25, in paragraph 2, is finally replaced by a comma and the following text is added: "having in mind the provision of part of capital that would be transferred to employees without compensation in actions based on work experience, as well as part of the capital for the privatisation register". Allow me, before I explain the amendment, and it is very much related to this amendment, to make one comment that has been made under the previous amendment, and it is very much about this amendment. Firstly, the monopoly position of public enterprises in Serbia is not defined only by the structure of the companies' capital. I'm surprised that the respected DS colleague, who is here in a four-time role, is the ruling majority MP, the columnist "Today", the economic analyst and model company "East Point" Mr. Dracula...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14809	Don't, Mr. Vujadinović, please, Mr. Baralic, that's our colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14810	Mr. Albianic, that's all true, he's a man on the payroll at Dracula and it's no shame. I'm just expressing my actual state of mind. So he is a soon-to-be MP, but he needs to know what laws have been passed in the National Assembly. I remind him, and the Serbian public, that in 2004 and 2005 rail laws, postal services, telecommunications and energy were passed. These laws, among other things, define the liberalisation of services. In the area of postal services, it is said that weight shipments, not to bid now which, and other postal services, will go into full liberalisation at the end of 2008; that in the area of telecommunications in a completely legitimate way, anyone who wants to deal with this type of work, will be able to do so since 2009; that only the upper machine will be possible in the area of railways, it will not be possible to sell the railway line, but it will be possible to sell wagons, locomotives and everything else, and it will be possible to sell anything other than the transmission system in the area of energy. I'm really plowing with anyone who wants to talk to me about this. It is only a matter of political will that the state will make a decision that existing public enterprises in this area are privatizing with more than 49% and thus handing over the control package to one of the private persons or enterprises, or a group of companies or private companies, and thus entering into competition with companies already under these four laws can deal with this activity. Please, let's follow that. The SPS doesn't support any of these four laws, to be exact. We don't think that's normal, but it happened. These laws have been passed and they will create real economic consequences, social and other already since next year. So, if, in addition, the providers in the area of the cable distribution system, such as SBB, Soroš's network and others, are already illegally competing with telecommunications systems and are already doing services as Internet providers and as providers of ordinary telephony, let me say, then this thing has gone much further than is thought here. We now have unfair competition, we talked about it here, he agreed with me on this, Mr. Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, when we talked about the budget law, etc. This isn't about selling mail or railways now, or EPS or other firms I've been talking about to acquire what's been the subject of controversy here. No, on the contrary, there will only be a state being forced here, if it remains a majority owner to fight at a lower price and a better service against those who do it privately, otherwise it's not ugly in itself, or such companies will die, so it will leave it to those who deal with this business under these four laws that I have listed here. And I mean here, it's not easy, because a number of people don't look at the whole problem, it's not easy to put into someone's hands, and I remind you, based on the Energy Act, it's possible to sell Gjerdap, and it's not just possible to sell a trafo station and power lines. It is possible to sell any hydro and thermal power plant, if the state has the courage to make such a political decision and sell it. So here we are talking about a complex problem, and we know here that in the next few years Serbia is entering into a delicate economic, political and social problem, because there will be a lot of things going on here. I ask that people be prepared to do so, that in a year, when someone says, I apologize, the Post Office of Serbia has lost its services, and otherwise DHL and this other one already works as a serious competition, or every bus stop in Serbia is a serious competition post office, because 5,000 packages are sent to Belgrade daily for elementary service and for this service 100 or 200 dinars are charged. So, if someone hadn't said it in two years, the mail had run out of favors, because someone else was doing it and because we didn't know it. No, but the MPs passed such laws three years ago. Therefore, these are important issues that should help us simply inform the citizens of Serbia about what might happen. Another question, very important, is that there is a super-monopoly firm in Serbia, it is NIS. The 2001 government regulation has made it completely impossible to import derivatives, except for those our refineries are unable to produce, which is Euro diesel and some other factions, I don't know exactly what they're dealing with. In addition, these days, the Government has made a regulation to all the owners of gas stations or other, associations, such as AD Oil and others dealing with imports, obliged them to have a licensed customs warehouse, while it is not clear exactly what anyone should do, and that it practically provided NIS with one position, and otherwise I don't mind, that someone doesn't deport with me on this subject, but has provided NIS, Southpetrol, a position that no one can dream of. So let's see what concept you're up for, liberal economy or market economy. If it's a liberal economy, then take off this regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, so everyone can import the gasoline from where they want and sell it as they please. If someone didn't get me wrong, I don't stand for it because I know what the state has to do at this stage after the shortened refinery of NATO bombings to do and that this is a safe income, because this is an excise product. Just so we know what we're talking about and what the point is. Some of these companies, such as NIS, already have privatisation consultants doing the job as they do. In addition, some of the powerful states already have a political interest in becoming the owners of parts or these systems, without having to do with any economic logic, but will have to do with political logic, which I understand as a politician. All we have to do is figure out what's less harmful and what's more beneficial. Now, specifically after the amendment, this was all the same after the amendment. So, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, the MP of the SPS, asked this amendment to ensure legal and social security in privatisation entities with majority government capital and to regulate it in the way he suggested. We're not hypersensitive, I have to say, to employees in public enterprises, because they certainly had a better position in the past, economically and socially, than many others, but that doesn't mean that they should be punished because they worked in these companies. This amendment makes sense and it goes that way. In addition, there is no Mr Dinkic here now, on the Legislative Committee, will be under the second law debate on this, I have expressed my doubts about two things in a law called colloquially about the division of free actions. It says that employees, I am talking about these six public enterprises, which are employees of public enterprises, will receive 200 euros per year of employment in the public enterprise or in another public enterprise, if they have worked in it before. What does that mean? This means that if someone started working at NIS today he cannot achieve a single euro, because he is not in those four million citizens who will receive up to 1,000 euros based on the registration of free shares, and in his firm he did not spend a year of training to account for 200 euros per year of internship, or if that same citizen has 35 years of employment in the agricultural community, so he is employed at NIS, then he cannot get 1,000 euros there, like those who are unemployed, housewives, pensioners, soldiers, etc., but he cannot get 200 euros per year of internships, because he did not spend a year in the company. I tried yesterday on the Legislative Committee to explain that 20,000 lawsuits were going to happen to get rid of this, and I'm simply going to beg for an answer. I'm sorry that Mr Dinkic is not here, because there is still time for the board of directors to submit an amendment to correct this. It is enough to say that such citizens have the right to choose a more favourable variant, which means that they can exercise the right as unemployed or to be recognised as a total job internship in that company 200 euros, however, it is not for the worker, but it is important for us as a legislative authority to get this out and give a precise solution. Otherwise, otherwise we're going to have a really big problem here, we're going to deal with one of the consequences we didn't expect. So, once again, Mr Petronivic's amendment is trying to address some of the potential problems of employees in enterprises with majority state capital. He's more righteous. I also want to say that the positions of the Independent Union of Serbia regarding this amendment are the same as the political position of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14811	By amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that this authority has decided to break up most of the previous privatisations, in the light of Article 3 of this law, which says who cannot participate in privatisation - a natural person who has been convicted or who is being prosecuted for the next crimes - against the economy against official duty, murder, theft, robbery, etc. When you look at the structure of those who were princes of power and in one way or another privatized some of the enterprises, then you realize that either this Article 3 of this law will not apply or these will be left without property that has already been privatized. Let me remind you, Mr Batic has just said - one vice-president of the government. To remind Mr. Batic, one Prime Minister after the murder of Zoran Djindjic was Prime Minister, he bought a Hotel "The Lake" in Blac, a Hotel "Sun" in Sokobanja, a wine cellar in the village of Malca, with a huge vineyard, and a resort on Jastrepec, and all of this was acquired by selling probably a fatherland from Gagrovec. There is one more question, before I move on to this amendment - why does a budget inspection not enter the Museum at the mouth, where nothing is done and the tender is already over? Whether the government is afraid of the Dimitrijevic clan, I mean Vojin Dimitrijevic, his son, who was the director of Soros for Serbia or sister-in-law, who is the director of the Museum. Secondly, why the financial police, the budgetary inspection, don't enter the Deposit Insurance Agency, the recovery and bankruptcy of banks. There was fat money there, there was no more, there was no more inspection to determine where they were. Let's go back to this amendment now and one huge scam that I assume the citizens of Serbia recognize. It's about privatizing these several public enterprises. First of all, they're told they're going to get action. Djelic was sitting here when he said - but he won't be able to sell them until we say so. What does that mean? He'll get the paper worthless, which he won't be able to cash. The 200 euros per year is also a fraud and will not be able to cash. Secondly, if anyone buys NIS, say, and buys 70 per cent of the capital, what would he buy from employees, from Serbian citizens where those other 15 per cent will go and what do they say 1,000 euros per piece of paper? The fat fraud, as part of the election campaign, felt that the ground under their feet was slipping, they felt that these presidential elections were only the first in a series of choices to be completed and that, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, Serbian citizens, the map, empty and dirty, which is currently being played. Mr. Petronijevic submitted an amendment where he wanted to protect the citizens who, just a little while ago, said yesterday, the day before, five months ago, were employed in a public enterprise 11 months ago, so they can't take part in it either. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, the adoption of Mr Petronijevic's amendments will resolve at least one in a series of illogicalities, in a series of dilemmas that this law leaves behind. Otherwise, the law certainly won't apply. The elections will pass, and the interest in applying this law will pass, and by the way, I wonder if all criminal privatisations will be annulled. That is what the Serbian government is obliged to respond to, which is what Dinkic is obliged to respond to. I understand his tiredness since yesterday's birthday, but he has to sit here and answer to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14813	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14814	I wonder what the government was doing when she refused this amendment. Article 13 states that the Agency, Article 13 of the Supplement, suspends the privatisation procedure in the event of knowledge of circumstances which were not known at the time of the initiation of the procedure, which completely prevents the sale of capital, i.e. the property of the privatisation entity. Which you didn't know about. The privatisation agency is a privileged seller and signer of a purchase contract. There's no telling. He who is a privileged seller, the signator of the contract and who is a public institution, who is authorized by the Privatisation Act to know and to bear damage to information that can be known, so she didn't know them. So the fact that a cup breaks itself isn't even possible in the privatisation process. How does the government explain the refusal? The amendment is not accepted for reasons that responsibility for the damage the Privatisation Agency could bear is not possible because, in the light of the principles of the Liabilities Act, on the basis of responsibility, it is impossible. I really don't understand who's writing to the government these arguments and who dares to leave this in the archives of the Assembly. The law on public procurement is a specific lex specialis which derogates the laws of other jurisdiction as special and specific. Just because I'm an economist doesn't mean that part of the law that concerns these laws doesn't mean that I don't have to study and that I know, you at least. So, the Privatisation Act that prescribed the look of the contract, all the special clauses that the contract treats, and I have one amendment later on, is also a law of Lex specialis that derivated the Law on Liaison Relations. You know it well. You're in denial of my amendment right now relying on the Bond Act. You forget that there are many scientific papers, practical texts that define what you say and literally question the rights of those who have done this proposal to amend and supplement, in terms of the Agency's responsibility for the knowledge of facts, because it sells, signes and controls the procedure of the Privatisation Act as a special law. So, sales, signing the contract, it's authorized to do control, and it has to answer, in the sense of the Bond Act, which you're calling on, and for the damage you're not aware of, it's a particular issue of rude negligence or even intent, it either applies to the buyer, or to the subject of privatisation. At the moment of the amendment, which was the pure logic of the things of an economist who implies, one citizen of Serbia, that every right bear any obligation. So, if someone points out you by special law in selling social and state property, then you have some obligations. You know, in life, only motherly love is unconditional. Everything else is rights and obligations. The moment I submitted that amendment, I was under the obligation of one who was doing a responsible job not to wash his hands using one of the return pronouns. Yes later, by preparing for these amendments, because you have given us many important financial laws as accompanying budgets, and also those we need to discuss, I find my seriousness, however immodestly it seems to you, a scientific text that has been done by a man who has recently chosen as judge of the Constitutional Court, who has a lot to object to in some other sense, but in a professional sense I was simply surprised by how he explained what was the healthy logic of an economist who well knows your failures in the privatisation process. What journalists do, for example. text, for you it's a yellow print, where they say -- the SouthInspect is preparing for privatisation, but it's hiding that it's building apartments, that it's so much property, so it calls on the Privatisation Agency not to move it around like an property that's going to apply. When you do this privatisation, you'll say - but you didn't know about the fact that not all the property was reported. For you, the newspaper text and the letter you receive is not enough warning. It wasn't enough warning for you when you were told that you were selling other people's property for the Belgrade Robing Houses. You have published a prospectus and you are making mad, I apologize to the citizens but there are no nicer words, both citizens and former owners, the state of Serbia, you are selling as an agency the property of the Serbian state as a property of a social enterprise, and you say we are selling actions, not real estates, and it is signed by your director of the Privatisation Agency, and in a call for the sale of a bankruptcy debtor -- it is selling real estates, and not far away, but in Prince Michael's. Something that I'm naked about, and it's owned by the state of Serbia. Someone's got to be responsible for that. The amendment seeks to establish the damage done by the Privatisation Agency, as it had to know about these facts, as the Constitutional Court language puts it. The Privatisation Agency must answer, under the Law on Liabilities, for the damage it inflicts, although it is a special law, the Law on Privatisation. This fact arises from Article 265(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on bond relations, which you called for when you called for me, not for a member but for a law, refused the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS, because the Privatisation Agency is signing a contract on the sale of social and state capital. This is the party responsible for the damage because it has the status of the privileged contracting party. You know perfectly what legal means. It shall write a contract which shall be submitted to the participant at an auction or tender for signature prior to participation in the auction or tender itself. You're asking a future buyer to agree with his statement that he's familiar with all the facts. Do you think we forgot how the candy was sold? Do you think no one knows that there is a lawsuit against "MK Komerca" and an authorised person who paid twice as much for old and rusty equipment as it really is worth, even though it is private funds, and this is even harder because it is about management and sale on behalf of the state. So, falsely depicted, unsupervised assets, supplies, land, machines, to buy low-cost political friends from the Privatisation Agency. Why not when the Agency, which is authorized to sell, sign and control the procedure, is ready to defend itself with one statement from a future buyer and says – if the company you bought has so many debts, we are not guilty, they have not shown, they have signed a statement that they have told the truth. It's not our fault that some rusty machines are shown as I don't know what kind of equipment and paid twice, and so washed and carried the money out. They wrote a statement guaranteeing it. Dear citizens, who took 126m euros from 2002 to September 2007 as a clean tip at the deduction of all the costs for privatising businesses, what the Minister in the Memorandum calls the real sector, must be responsible for checking the allegations showing assets, supplies, land, machinery and corporate debts. When I say stockpiles, I'm thinking of MK Komertz again. They bought three sugars for three euros each, allegedly taking over a debt of 20 million to the NIS, which again had political friendships, abuse, in economic science it is said by renting political friendships, bypassed, but you do not tell us how many supplies they came from, which they could and still did not settle those debts. That the Agency is responding, that no one washes their hands, that the minister doesn't say – I don't know if Calcedonia really started doing something, I'll ask around, and I signed a contract to give them 800 thousand euros for 400 jobs times 2,000, which is the lowest that is promised to foreign direct investors, someone has to bear responsibility. The text I refer to is the text of the Constitutional Court judge in which there is no element of the right, no argument to reject that responsibility. On the contrary, for the damage caused by the failure suffered by the privatisation entity, the Agency must respond, because the law establishes the obligation of the Agency to exercise control and verify the accuracy and complete of all data contained in the privatisation documentation which is essential for the implementation of the privatisation process. You know perfectly well that the Agency is obliged to check everything I've listed when it is filed, so if it finds that something has not been entered, the solution to the correction and the deadline for the completion will be returned. So you have mechanisms, you're a public institution. It's not the Privatisation Agency that took, like, the middleman, that does it for some commission. You have the status of a privileged contractor and executioner of this job on behalf of the state, and you cannot do this job without responsibility. I'm surprised, I really don't see any reason here anyone's wrong, or you who think that the people you choose for the Constitutional Court have no knowledge, it's an economic issue, or it's simply enough to have 128 hands to cover the conceited, harsh negligence and thieving, there's no softer words. I'm also surprised by the fact that you put "Gallenika" on the list of companies whose property will be the subject of sharing free shares, and you show basic ignorance. Now let me tell you, on March 24, 1998, a government was formed in which the SRS took part. To my party's trust and with the support of my boss, the absent man Vojislav Seselj, whose badge I am proud to wear, I led the resort, implementing the inherited Privatisation Act, which Milan Beko and his crew worked. "Gallenika" was then sold to Milan Panic, a political friend who came from America, for $50m and promises to enter unifications for some medicines that have never been recognised. When I came as minister in possession of the document, a complaint that Panic complained that the "Fitormation" would not give him a pass, a path to its drive, I found in the text and a confession that the man had invested 50 million, and that the generic medicine he had promised would enter when he approved it in America. With the support of my boss, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj, Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, I have launched a process of reviewing values and roles. Mr. Tesic of Loznica was the director of the Directorate, signed a new solution because we could not intend to recognise the role of someone as a role. For 50m of these invested money, which has been recovered by arbitration, the state has preserved Galenika, whose value is estimated between 800m and more euros. That's how the SRS did it in the former coalition government with the Socialists. When I just remember how many newspaper texts were written about how we wanted to fight with the world; no, who can get paid, including Panic. Anyone who doesn't pay can't claim someone else's property. Whoever sells as a Privatisation Agency and has the right to control, he has to answer. Please, Mr. Vice President, I very much respect you, during the speech of my colleague, Vlad Sekulić, who spoke of "Galenica" and the way of establishing "Hemopharma" and many other pharmaceutical houses, I know with confidence that the orderly tone came out of the technical devices of this hall. Where and whoever listens and controls and censors what the citizens will hear, you are required to examine. During his speech on "Galenica" the tone was distracted and the citizens absolutely heard nothing. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14815	I'm asking you to answer the question why there was no tone on TV. This is where the system functioned normally. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) Parliamentarian Rajko Baralic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14816	Mr. Albianic, gentlemen of the government, I don't know exactly what ministry you're from, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from, I'm not surprised that the government didn't accept the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SPS because it's simply two different concepts, but I'm going to try to explain to employees in enterprises with majority state capital why this amendment is better for them. What's better for the government, I don't care. Let me tell you exactly what the subject of the amendment is. Article 13. The draft law should be amended in such a way that the existing Article 25a is changed in the current position of 2rd position, which becomes the position of 3rd and reads: "A company operating with majority social capital can, during the privatisation process, change the provisions of an individual collective contract relating to the level of earnings of employees, only with the prior consent of the Agency. “ It is an amendment, and this is what the Government says as a proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act: “Amendment is not accepted, because the existing legislative solution has proved to be cellular in the practice of implementing privatisation. Indeed, before the introduction of this provision into the Privatisation Act in 2003 (it is true that this member was changed in 2003), it was noted that employees of privatisation entities operating in majority state capital had unwarrantedly increased profits, resulting in the inattractiveness of the company for the potential buyer. Also, in the application of this standard from 2003 to today, there was no problem... ''So, the respected employees, in public enterprises, public companies who have the courage to set up an apparition with the government of the Republic of Serbia in the boards of these public enterprises, for example, in NIS, the chairman of the board of directors has 10 average earnings in NIS, that is 470,000 dinars, to translate into Serbian, which everyone understands, and members have only eight, which is about 370,000 dinars. So, they explain to me why employees in these companies can't raise salaries without getting along with it. What do you want them to do? Those who are on the board of directors and supervisory board of public enterprises, therefore, companies with state-owned majority capital are so well paid that they work against the interests of workers, that they will do whatever is necessary to keep it the way it is. You, distinguished ladies and gentlemen employed in public enterprises, every time you go to the election, you get into a box of these parties that are now organizing boards of directors with this solution. Good luck to you. So, every wedding in a hurry produces remorse. It's coming back to you with a big interest. We can give a few examples of that in a relationship, but it's not necessary, this one's enough. I asked in the amendment that this be resolved in a better, more elastic way, for trade unions representing companies with majority state capital to have higher importance in these positions as the Independent Union of Serbia. So, the union struggle, among other things, involves fighting monopolies, in a way that I tried to explain in the previous reporting, but the union struggle between them implies that they build up a flow and know what will happen if one or more political parties exercise power and what the laws will be like when these parties exercise power, because they are by definition obliged to translate the economic programme from their political agenda into legal solutions. That's the situation now. So, I know that some of the unions in public enterprises were distasteful of SPS services, like last year when we only voted here for those famous four laws of petition half a million Serbian citizens, but once again I warn them and keep them informed, however they will, this is all regulated by the election of a political programme. The left-wing political programme means left-wing solutions in laws. The concept of a liberal economy means that one boss is the owner of the NIS, that another boss is the owner of the EPS, that the third boss is the owner of what I don't know, and that they all have some boss in the world and that prices of services or products, depending on what these companies are dealing with, are such that mainly citizens with average earnings in Serbia can't pay. The other day I told you exactly what 16 products cost in Germany and how much they cost in Serbia. Thus, the purchase price of milk in Germany is lower than 2.7 dinars in Serbia, and the retail price of milk in Germany is higher by nearly eight dinars. So this is a matter of concept and a question of choice. Those who can decide this are only citizens of Serbia. I'm absolutely sure they'll be able to assess it, because when you do something two or three times in favor of your own damage, then it's obviously a teaching that helps you to choose a better solution for the cold heads next time. If that does not happen, we will be honored by the SPS to represent the union and employees' attitudes both in public and in other companies. One day we'll meet at the same job, in the same place, and take responsibility for the proper legal solutions I see, very happy to the gentlemen of the ministry. Otherwise, there is a manner in which no one informs us who attends the National Assembly sessions, because when the chairman says who submitted the amendment, then the public, and you distinguished MPs and you present guests, you know my name is Rajko Baralic, you know whose party I'm in, you know what my political program is. I don't know your names, because no one will let me know. When the minister is away, I don't know who you represent, I don't know who you represent, and I just see you laughing. Good luck to you. So it's a very interesting behavior. In my village, it's rude behavior. It's elemental rudeness. I'm working here with my other colleagues on serious business, and you can go out and have some coffee, you don't have to spend time here, because the Rules of Procedure doesn't give you the opportunity to call and say anything, and those of you who left you so naked on the cold, that you can't say anything, discuss it with them. Please, it is rude to communicate in this way with MPs who talk about serious issues, which concern 70,000 employees in Serbia. So, your laughter doesn't hurt me, it doesn't touch me, you can't defocus me, but I have to tell you that you're making a bad impression of the government of my country which is, I don't have any other, I don't have a spare and I don't intend to change it, unless you've come from some other countries and you have another citizenship, like some of the ministers have, some have a double. In that government, the first DOS, eight ministers had dual citizenship of French-Serbian, German-Serbian, Canadian-Serbian, and one had no Serbian citizenship at all. So I hope that's not the case now. I'm asking for your elemental decency. I'm not laughing at any of you when you're talking, and I'd like to hear it on the board, where I'm taking part, what is it you have to say to this situation. Otherwise, don't, don't need to, this isn't a laugh, this isn't a quiz, this isn't a circus, people are coming here talking about serious issues, and you're sitting in front of the circumstances, but please don't do it because we're not doing it to you either. Also, I invite Mr. Secretary or one of the three authorised representatives to come here. Don't honor us that you're wasting your time for us. You've lost two hours today because you haven't been able to get most of them to vote on the budget. So 9,500 direct and indirect users of the budget depend on whether or not this ruling majority can be crushed and come here and vote on the budget. Guys, it's simple, you say, we can't exercise power, as you say, we no longer have the capacity to exercise power. You're saying, okay, we can't, we're asking the election, it's being settled in these institutions in a manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law. No, you're telling us that we're wasting your time, and you can't provide basic conditions here to pass the most important law in one year, and that's the budget of one state, the budget of the Republic of Serbia in this case. We're already late, he was late on his way in, and now he's late for his adoption. As far as we're concerned, we're going to be doing our job until the last second in line with the Rules of Procedure, but really, no arguments, no apologies, twice today, the SPS MPs and other opposition parties were here when the budget vote was scheduled, only you were 117. Let me remind you, it's mathematics for second grade primary school, calculating, addition, seizing, dividing and multiplying up to 1000, it's a program for second grade primary school.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14817	The multiplication is in the second, and the division is later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14818	I see you're doing your best, so you've split up that no one in this country can put you together anymore. So, no amalgam, no those of the European Union, no these outside, etc. So 117 were present, and it needs 126. You're unable to secure most of it. So you don't exist. You are the ruling majority in ruins or have the courage to say, "We are no longer." Or bring in, I'm sorry -- they bring in cattle, people call here to come, I apologize, I didn't mean to say, I never say it that way -- make sure people come here, vote for the budget, and we do more work, because there's a few more things here to get rid of. To remind everyone what's on the agenda -- ten laws -- we have to vote on them, and four more to come into the process, to make a statement about them, and you still don't even know what local self-government laws should look like. So you're in no condition. I'm going to speak your language one more time - you don't have the capacity to exercise power. You argued about the government, not the concept. So, it's not enough for these 200, 300 and 500,000 applications on boards to be an amalgam for your exercise of power. You obviously need something more, we'll wait a few more days, we'll see how that thing works, and we'll respond politically to what you're trying to do here. Now there are several members of the ruling majority sitting in this room. I don't mind that, and I'll explain the next amendment and my colleagues, too, and we'll make you say every single one of them in the voting day, if it comes to that day, I'm under the impression that today is half-d.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14819	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. As far as the objections are concerned, Mr Luka Andric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and Nebojsa Ciric, assistant minister at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, have been called by the president of the Assembly in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14820	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to say, Mr. Minister, but unfortunately the minister is not in the O.R. The SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law amending Article 41 The Privatization Act. This Article 41 reads: "The contract on the sale of capital or property contains provisions on contracting parties, the subject of sale, the contract price, the payment period, the use of land... How to resolve employee issues... "We consider, in the light of, above all, the practice that has so far taken place in this transition privatisation, that it is necessary to stress, in fact add to the way in which employees' issues are resolved and specifically'respecting the rights of employees established by collective agreement, the Labour Act and the Labour Contract, the deadline for maintaining the continuity of production', etc. Why do I say that? Because, first of all, we have the impression that more attention has been paid in the privatisation process, when the agreed parties were referred to the customers, first of all the company management and possibly those entities, i.e. those customers, who, in conjunction with the company's management, will benefit themselves from privatisation and possibly for the political party that supports them, and that very little or even no attention has been paid to the workers, and also the practice of often writing one thing, and the other is happening in practice. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment, it is said: "Amendment is not accepted because resolving employees' issues is arranged through the social programme (which is only one fictitious state, mostly)... Accepting the proposed amendment would mean unnecessary complementarity of existing standards, especially given that the buyer, as a new employer, is legally required to respect collective agreements." On this occasion, I would like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are the ones who evaluate, and not you, you know it well, that in many companies of collective agreements there were no valid ones, and that there are not many in today, and that it is precisely one of the goals of numerous strikes in Serbia and requires that collective agreements be signed. In fact, the SPS has repeatedly pointed to numerous anomalies that occurred precisely in the process of a transitional privatisation. These anomalies mainly referred to labour standards and labour rights, as labour standards and rights were at the expense of workers' standards and rights. First of all, the SPS has pointed to bankruptcy many times, and this is what our people in the jargon would say, that many companies, which did not deserve to go into bankruptcy, still lead to such a situation, which is what our people in the jargon would say - throw their eyes at a particular firm, bring it into bankruptcy, and thus privatise some people who would certainly achieve, even politically, if not the personal interest of some of the parties in charge. The SPS had previously pointed to these crisis headquarters that were a mechanism for such actions. Most of the time, the best workers were fired through these crisis headquarters, the flow of production stalled. As a result, for example, in the municipality of Negotin, i.e. in eastern Serbia many companies were brought to bankruptcy, many social enterprises, such as the Autotransport company Lasta, such as the Krajina Wine, which was once a brand of Serbia, with the Negotinka Confection Factory, and Negotinska Press, Milkar, etc. Most of the time, the economy of eastern Serbia, where about 7,000 people were out of work, was left on the streets. Many of them have now gone with their belly after bread, so abroad. But I remind you that these are not people who went abroad voluntarily many years ago and in a easy and nice way, but people who were forced because they stayed on the streets. I want this opportunity to remind the state of state in eastern Serbia, above all, that it is exposed, that the situation is very bad and that I am afraid that some political options will not abuse this, first of all, to portray it as a violation of human rights precisely from some foreign politicians who have other aspirations towards these areas. As for these social programmes, those who bought bankruptcy companies had no obligation to work, so the state offered them some fictitious social programs. What does that mean? This means a symbolic cash compensation that normally cannot survive, and also a very fast loss of social and health insurance rights, and soon such people gained the right to social and health insurance on other grounds. These are social programmes that were, as a rule, much less milder, much worse than social programs in many public institutions that were being implemented, and they were also not very good, even on the contrary, worse, where the years of work experience were minimally worth, where people practically allowed for little money to lose, or sell their right to social and health insurance, and where they did not do so well, but were forced to accept such social programs, explaining that they were technological surpluses, which turned out to be not true, because some other people came to their places, but they are known to be people, that they are mostly obedient and party-defined people. So I would say one example of a social firm in Negotin, where 60 people are out of work, where four thousand square meters of business space are in several halls and a few dozen acres of land belonging to this company sold for only 170,000 euros, equal to 42 euros per square metre for business space alone, not counting equipment, not counting everything else. What's going on with those workers who stay in those companies? In fact, they are the ones that this amendment applies to. How's their working hours? Most often it is not eight hours, as the Labour Act admits to them, most often it is 10 and 12 hours of working time, which is considered normal working hours, and if workers stay behind, they are not paid overtime. It's even a common anomaly to keep their vacations from being admitted. So the employer won't let them use their vacations, and there were examples, if they use vacations, he doesn't pay them that time. What happens next? As a doctor, I personally participated in the disclosure of many anomalies, because many people were sick and did not even have the right to be sick, i.e. to sit at home and heal themselves to the end, so that, during the use of therapy, they had to go to work, and even have a few examples, where I am a personal witness, that in the early postoperative course, these workers had to leave and work without saying that they were raising crates, or doing physical jobs that are not compatible with their health conditions at all. They may only be admitted to some serious illness, an incurable disease, but they are admitted by being eventually fired as a shear. We are also witnessing many examples that the new employer is even changing the basic activity of the company he bought, so that people who have worked there for years, who are masters in their work, are forced to do now some new work that they don't know, what our people in the jargon would say, under the old days to do new jobs and there turns out to be conflicts of all kinds. O right to strike, o right to any other form of union organization, not to mention that there is none, nor may they ask the employer whether they are regularly declared, whether they are paid contributions or not. I hardly remember for the past seven years that I've heard that people like this have won a jubilee award in such a company or that they've been sent to retirement in a decent way. They were mostly paid into retirement humiliated by certain criminalised new owners of such companies. Even the SPS has seen another common phenomenon and anomaly, which is that legal representatives, who represent the rights of employment of just such people, through certain unions of workers who have been damaged by this process of transition privatisation, have misused it, connected with employers and connected with the people of the judiciary and worked at the expense of workers' rights, such as, for example, and the double-crossed heirs of those citizens who, and under this law on the right to free action and cash compensation, will not be able to inherit that right from those who died in the time period since 2001, when the Law on Privatisation was passed, to this day, because the state, according to us, was supposed to register, here is the opportunity, that it had had a unique electoral list, perhaps it would have been done, that these people too would not be deprived, i.e. by the legal heirs of these people. Also, the Safety and Health Act at work is a fictional one. Otherwise, many construction firms are not respected, which are controlled by the inspection. The inspection detected a high percentage of unreported workers, then a high percentage of workers without HTZ equipment, who are on construction sites and many construction sites that were not provided enough. The fact is that many professional diseases, which is an employer, otherwise, are obliged to report an inspection, such as vibrational disease, skin disease, etc., during this year none of them are even reported. Now I'd ask, but unfortunately, there's no minister to tell us what's going on with a company called the Railway Association, which hasn't worked for almost two years, where many clients have lost their rights and no explanation of what's going on with the company, why it's being taken into bankruptcy. Most have filed a lawsuit with a trade court in their place of residence, but there is no minister, there is an opportunity to explain what is going on with the company. After all, in order to support my observations and observations of the SPS, I have time to read how the workers of a company from Piroth, it is a "Grafi" Pirot, a social firm that has worked for 40 years, acquired and acquired a two thousand square-square business building, a machine for the graphic industry, had even better salaries than "Tiger" Piroth, which, by the way, was a brand in Pirote, which had a market even in Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija, etc., which was taken into bankruptcy, where it was of 165 workers, you will hear what happened. This is a memo sent to the Privatisation Agency and is said to be sold on December 30th 2002. All the employees of about 115 workers were delighted with the sale. At the first meeting right after the new year, where everyone was employed, the owners said they would provide a job, and we are obliged to work out of eight hours and we will all be satisfied with the profits. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. The work was getting smaller, the customers were leaving us for some very certain reasons. The financial situation is getting worse. The promised unsettled salaries for October, November and December 2002 have not been paid to date. We didn't have direct phone connections anymore and all the calls went through the answering machine they hired. Our demands to call someone who needed to work, she usually called in late or she'd forget, so we had to pray again. Since two members of the consortium had their own company, they moved their staff into the Graphics, they gave the Graphics staff only three rooms, where they barely settled. The Secretary of Graphics was ordered to be there until she puts on a new one, and then she doesn't need it anymore. All teams, drinks, juices, etc. They went to the "Graffics" cargo, even though it was used by other company workers. The threats were daily." One more moment, so I don't answer the Rules of Procedure... (President: Please finish. )......................................................................................................... The fleet's gone. Excessive situations were very common. For the end, I'll just say that there was a control from the Nish Privatisation Agency, where a meeting in the owner's office, in the presence of the union president, was attended by a worker who carried out the controls. She was brought out of town by one of the owners and returned to town after talking. The union said representatives of the agency had not been paid sales tax for two years, there was no division in costs between this new and old company etc. She said, in principle, she commented, "You didn't receive seven salaries? You're lucky to have owners like this. Do you know that there are companies where they don't receive salaries for years? What the owner wants to declare you a technological surplus, of 90 of you 60, is to be happy, because it will pay you back, and it doesn't have to do that. A 25-year-old employee is due to receive 50 grand, seven backlogs and severance. She told the director of the company to copy her balance sheet and bring her into town because she doesn't have time to wait. That's how the Privatization Agency control was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14821	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Is anyone else answering this amendment? National MP Vlado Sekulic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14822	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. What's your hurry? The new year will come 31st at midnight. You'd like to before that... (President: You don't have much time. How can we not? We have 15 minutes under this amendment, our parliamentary group. Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment to Article 16 and Article 16. The draft law amending Article 41 of the applicable law and above the initial sentence shall be adopted the following text - in Article 41(1) after the wording - of the question of employees, the following words shall be inserted and added - to respect the rights of employees established by collective agreement, the Labour and Labour Act, the deadline for maintaining the continuity of production. The reason is that the amendment is not accepted because resolving employees' issues is regulated through a social programme which forms an integral part of a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, and also constitutes a break-up condition laid down in Article 41a point 6 of Article 41a. The Privatisation Act, under which a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, is considered to be broken because of the non-execution of the provisions on how to resolve the issue of employees, so it is said - the acceptance of the proposed amendment would mean the unnecessary fulfilment of existing standards, especially given that the buyer, as a new employer, is required under the law to respect collective agreements. Mr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic's amendment explains nicely. What you wrote as an explanation, why don't you accept the amendment, if all this were as ideal and as good as you claim, we wouldn't have protested in Jugoramedia, so what I said to Posavina, so the demands of the Galenika employees, then the Tamnavac Ub. Now I'm going to apostrophe this company, where it's proven to be a relevant violation of all these regulations that are laid down. First, this amendment finely regulates to continue in the continuity of production. Maybe someone from the DS will say, or you, I don't know who you are here, this is all ideal, the Agency sold, all employers stick to each other, and we keep seeing that companies, workers, employees are fired, that production doesn't go into continuum. You may have another theory. If we were asked to continue this continuity, then you have a theory -- what's someone interested in manufacturing and buying such a company? He is interested in buying the company, which he bought out of interest, not because he loves Serbia and Serbian businesses and Serbian workers, but to increase his profits, to make his capital stronger, so that his shares would be worth more on the stock market tomorrow, if he wants to sell, he can sell those shares. This is an amendment that should show something. The goal of each company, here, literally comes down to what Honorable counterpart Dimitrijevic was saying, he spoke about the status of health workers, the social programme, the adherence to a collective contract, the individual contract; the role of the union. The role of the union is minor in businesses now in Serbia. Secondly, you have a surplus of imaginary unions, and you have 5-6 unions. The representative union is the one representing the most employees in front of its union organisation in the firm. But you've got more union organizations, and then there can be some kind of interference, so the employer will offer another union to be against this. Five percent is minimum during the strike to maintain production, the production process must also be maintained when a 5% strike takes place. Every company that wants to go, as Mr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic wrote here, shows that man knows the health status of all workers, is to continue the observed state of production, to improve production, to improve quality control, to adopt Iso standards. Environmental protection, both environmental and all employees in production cycles and production parts of the company. What's most expensive in manufacturing companies, it's so-called. 'nou hau', that's what strangers know when they come here, and that's the knowledge and technology that's here. Serbia's economy can also be the poorest, but it has the best professional staff to pay the least. All the foreigners who come to buy here, they buy, because for an electric engineer abroad, 200 thousand euros should be invested in a good electric engineer. This is where our electric engineers work for 200-300 euros. That's why it's interesting. These and next amendments, regardless of whether Mr Albianic will watch us not answer, why, if something is good, we will include ourselves to show, but the example is what you said, it already says in the law, there is nothing special that can be prejudged, because the employer is obliged. Where does it say he's bound? I was just talking about Posavina, the same one Slavisa Puric bought the company Tamnavac, so all the employees, since the employer did not adhere to his obligations, wrote to Mr Dinkic on August 10th 2007, pointed to his failures, and that is usually this company, and the entire assessment of the company is worth less than this one here Silos, which is because of the accounting value, the depreciation ate this, because it says that the silo of 86, and not since 86, but since 98. The silo is worth more than this whole factory that's been sold. They also have a place in Valjevo, and in other places their excursions, where they send their workers to recover, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic knows, where they are working under special conditions of work, companies and employers are obliged to send workers to seven days of recovery on the company's cost, because these are risky conditions, I will set an example of the "Borders of phytopharmacies" due to poisons from the first to the sixth group. These are some obligations that need to be respected. This is an exact example that it was not respected, so they changed, so they founded two of the company's nurseries, so now they don't know which older company, which is younger, but everything worth it, they transferred to a new company founded by the Tamnavac Falls, and then, as Canyon Tara, a series of waterfalls, will eventually reach Niagara. It is the same man who destroyed Posavina in Obrenovac, but was therefore rewarded by the visit of Šuki Plazem - Sutanovac, as Verica Radeta named him yes, Mrs. Komic even received a picture from Mr. Puric when they visited such a successful company. And such a successful firm, when I first mentioned the company Tamnavac, the director called all the members known to be SRS, so he lined them up there to see who gave up the data. Mr. Dinkic knows, he could have, but he didn't. What do these workers need, which you protect from the employer, who has taken over the role of working from the Chamber of Commerce, the Agency, the Register, the newspaper. It's a memo to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and I'm going to leave it on the table, as I left Galenika and all the other items, and I'm going to make him an archive this good, so we're going to see if the amendment that indicates that employers don't adhere to the provisions written down. These are individual amendments that handle this problem perfectly, especially in this continuity of production. The continuity of production is even the interest of the strategic partner, the buyer, to continue this continuous production, to introduce even new programs, new machines, with more productivity, in electronic form, that these are machines that work much more, to replace people, but not in the sense that people would be fired, but to facilitate workers working in such difficult conditions, to spend as much. You know that the century in production is not like in office, one is intellectual spending, the other is physical. So this amendment is an excellent amendment and should be included, if Mr Dinkic were there, he would respond, he would probably accept this amendment. And I'd like him to answer my question about what was cut, whether Mr. Djelic is a foreigner, with a double passport, so he didn't pay the capital gains tax for the shares, because Mr. Djelic didn't answer me. He replied that the government cannot answer me, and Bozidar Djelic signed it. I didn't write that Obershal there so he could answer me, which Mr. Seselj also called, so he didn't know how to calculate the roots of two. (From bench: What is the root of two? That's 1.22. Tell Mr. Dinkic, this is a remark, the viewers have not heard, this is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, every Serbian radical and his child in the first grade knows what your science doctor Obershal didn't know. We'll see about that on the 20th. With a heart for Tom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14823	Thank you, Mr. Sekuli. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14824	Mr. Sekuliæ, Mr. Dinkic will handle it, I remind you of that fight they had when they told each other at the funeral not to, therefore, it's too long a deadline...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14825	Don't, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14826	So I'm sure Mr Dinkic will do something about these 11m euros in Djelic's. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if privatisation had started right from the beginning, if social programs had gone right from the start, there would be no reason to even now submit to this law an amendment submitted by Mr Dimitrijevic. He's asking to protect the rights of workers. Dot. In response, the Government says this way: "Amendment is not accepted because resolving the issue of employees is regulated through a social programme which forms an integral part of a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, and also constitutes a break-up condition under Article 41a point 6 of the Privatisation Act, under which a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. property is considered to be broken due to non-execution" obligation. How many strikes have those whose companies have been privatized since you started this burazer privatisation until today? How many people are out of work? How many people are maimed for reception and working conditions? Why don't you think about it a little bit more than you say, because if you applied it wouldn't be necessary for the amendment to be passed on to this law. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition. The people gather in the streets, mention you, mention you closer and further relatives, carry banners. If you start taking down their banners, they'll be left with sticks in their hands. Take care. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should be adopted. With this amendment, at least for this few workers who are still working in state, social and public enterprises in privatisation, we will protect their rights. If you haven't already succeeded in 70% of the privatisation to protect the rights of workers, because in the end you didn't care about it, but you tried to make them into the flag, as it was called, the WHO, and then you crossed them and now you pushed them into the street after a year or two. You must adopt this amendment, that at least with these public enterprises, which you will give back to some of your friends, as far as I can see the burazer privatisation still works, the hand of the menu will still be by a few euros, and this little bit that remains to be protected by the employees of these companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14827	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14828	Amendment to Article 16 The amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act to an existing member is added the following sentence: ''A contract on the sale of capital, or assets, must contain provisions on investment guarantees and provisions on fees for the use of natural resources. '"I warned the government what would be in the light of this amendment, but it seems it wasn't enough. I have put into account a simple, non-respectable sentence, which is why they will now listen to their 2006 final account and hear the weight of the argument that I am defending this amendment. I wrote that the experience so far is about the necessary definition of the elements listed in the amendment, because the lack of investment guarantees meant the lack of investment, and often the termination of the contract, and the use of natural resources without any compensation damaged the budget and citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens, the Government answers: The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposals contained in the amendment should not constitute an important element of the contract. It doesn't matter if we get investment guarantees. What's the big deal? Not to leave them with an obligation to continue their work, not to worry about the workers, to extend their hours from 12 to 18 hours, as in Jumko, where they were recently fired, to leave the First May Standard in Babušnica, the German owner of the Lego company, fired 290 workers, was a fully successful firm. So, without any reason, after the privatisation of 290 people are found on the labour market. What's the big deal? Whoever doesn't believe, I'll do it again. The proposals contained in the amendment should not represent the essential element of the contract, but rather the provisions, he said, which are specified by the contract on the sale of capital, now it is the comic side of the arguments, and all previous contracts on the sale of capital, regardless of the methods, contain provisions on guarantees. Well, then why are privatisation contracts broken down? If the investment guarantees were so defined, they were strict and important, and they were binding investors. There is no Mr. Novakovic to tell us how many privatisation contracts have been terminated for this very reason. The government is afraid to accept a legally prescribed obligation to guarantee investment, because then someone can start responsibility for breaking the law, because in the previous amendment, which I have submitted, you saw the government flee to put any kind of obligation on the Agency for damage to either the privatisation entity or the buyer. The fact that, under the authority it has as a public service, it will not, under the authority it has as a priority contractual and privileged contractual party, control what is the obligation and such agencies. But he wants to take 5% of the sales price as a reward for success. They repeat a hundred times, 126m euros so far, after the government's recognition, without 2001, which is the year when privatisation was not allowed until the law was passed, until sales agents were established and services, bodies and agencies were established, as prescribed by the agreement with the trust fund, which was quickly and unsuspectingly translated in September 2001. That's what the Bulgarian analyst says, participates in the political party elections, some of them get most, form a government, and then someone comes from the World Bank and tells them what their economic programme is. Here, this is proof. You're saying investment isn't an important element and it shouldn't be in the legal part of the contract, and you're still saying it's been applied so far. Wait, what country do we live in? We in one, you in the other. We're one reality, and you're the other. Another interesting provision, you say, is that contracts also contain compensation for the use of natural resources. Dear citizens, respected colleagues, how many companies have been privatised so far, in which one of Serbia's natural resources has been handed over without any compensation, with the sale of shares or what is called the subject of privatisation here, you can assess, because we cannot, regardless of the law established, supplying the data to the Agency and obtaining them, because I repeatedly ask questions on which there are no government and vice president and minister. On the revenue side of the budget, on the EC Contact 7.4.1. - incomes, the lease of unproduced assets, that's what it's called, and in fact, in our Serbian language it's called - a compensation for the use of natural goods. The items stand - compensation for mineral raw materials, cut forest, wood, forest land, extracted material from the water stream, those cases of sand abuse, forest and agricultural land, for example, compensation for the use of forest land in the lease, compensation for the use of river shores, tourist benefits, spas, healing factor, water, etc. On the continent, which has over 25 items, in 2006, the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to all these grounds, was planned by the government for 458 million, with 417 million dinars. In 2006, this was agreed by a contract obliged, not by law, to make a difference, to pay a fee – 417 million for the whole of 2006. Before the bombing, in 1999, the initialed purchase contract for part of Beocinski's cement factory's capital amounted to an annual compensation for the use of mineral raw materials worth $10m. Annually, only for Beocinska cement factory, but with precisely established parcels of laporac and with a precisely determined amount of laporac to be exploited at a specified price of cement and the production capacity of Beocinska cement factory. So, just on that basis, just for the Beocian cement factory that it's been charged at these prices, that the revenue for the compensation of mineral raw materials, you know how much it would be -- 800 million just for the compensation of mineral raw materials at the Beocian cement factory. That year, the contract included a guarantee for investment, so that buyer could count on actions only if he entered from a country where money comes from to invest, not that from this hungry market, from the supplies found and from the reserves found in the factory, which he allegedly pays realistically, to extract profits from and invest our money from our citizens, from this profit into our factories, but to be called someone else's, and to determine working time, social security, pensions, etc. So, the government, dear citizens, steals us from not charging fees for the use of natural resources. It's not her resource. We give the Government the right to preserve on our behalf this grace called natural wealth. They fooled certain municipalities into taking environmental fees on this, not charging mineral raw materials. I am openly and clearly saying - The government is not charging, but using what is called rent-saking in theory, searching for indirect apps and commissions, guessing and negotiating with foreign investors on this basis. It's not enough to say - we haven't sold them what is a natural wealth because the law says, it's not allowed to privatise what's called a natural wealth, but you have to provide a legal mechanism to collect compensation for the use of natural resources. With this amendment, I ask that this part of the contract be legally binding, not to remain at the will of the Agency, which, in practice, has repeatedly convinced us not to worry about it, but even the property listed in the cadastrian books on its behalf allows someone else to sell as someone else's. I guess there are lawyers among you, so you know that the first court dispute was at the time of Cicero when someone else's sugar was sold, when that thing was decided properly. We meet in the 21st century with the situation that the government, represented by this majority, does not care about natural wealth, and when you warn it that the natural wealth of this country and the investment, the preservation of production capacities, that tomorrow they have children where to work, when it is the preservation of natural wealth and what it is by definition and what the budget law says, its income side, and when you warn them and give them the mechanism, they won't hear it. I won't even refer to the data published in the Energy Observatory for how much the state loses when NIS, the EPS doesn't charge a fee for mineral raw materials. While the company is owned by the state, while its price is controlled, we have the right not to charge that fee from our businesses, but at a time when such companies are privatised and when natural resources become the basis for making extra profit, and what's called a state that doesn't want to charge it -- irresponsible, wasteful.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14829	The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14830	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Minister, I wanted to commend you this morning, but you're out, but here I am now. As governor of the National Bank, you said exactly what Mrs Tabakovic said now: that the state loses 50m euros annually because it is unable to charge for all this that has been said by Tabakovic. I've talked about it, Mr. Dinkic, seven times over this pay phone until the day before yesterday, nine with the current announcement, and three times in the presence of your MPs from last call during one round table and education. So you've seen the problem correctly, like all of us. After that, I remind you, you were the finance minister, and I believe you didn't deal with this, because, in this area, Mrs. Tabakovic, the state is not irresponsible here, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here, according to protectionist conditions, the state privatised three cementers, a cretined Jelen Do and various other water-exploited firms in Serbia, "Knjiz Milos" and others, because someone gave the word not to say something else that this would not be a certain number of years of real charge, but that charge would be symbolic. In 1930, King Alexander passed a law defining that everything located 30 centimeters below the surface of the country belonged to the state, which is why every farmer or cooperative who had a vineyard, and vineyarding implies so-called rigoring, double Ringing, which means 40 centimetres, paid more taxes than farmers who only sow corn, because the state considered it right, and this should do today, that all that lies beneath the surface of the ground is national wealth, especially when this national wealth is unrenewable. This is a question that is considered with due care by all serious states and all serious governments, because when you give someone such mineral sites, then you endanger the environment, then you make it impossible for the region to do anything normal, other than exploiting that gravel or limestone, or laporate, or water, etc., and beyond that, by definition, to keep the slags, the ruined banks of rivers, etc. Let's draw a line today below all of this. I'm asking you seriously now: does the state now have the capacity to charge this to the level of 100m euros per year? I believe it's projected capacity financially, that it's projected revenue from these few things. Instead of boasting about how these cementists work effectively, how they do everything they do, etc., I always have to remind myself that the cement prices in Serbia are more than the countries from which the companies that bought our cements are. No more cheap construction for Serbia's poverty because the cost of concrete cubicity in Serbia today is 30% more expensive than the cost of cubic concrete in France, where Lafarz has its headquarters, otherwise there are 19 cements, there are none in Paris. So these are issues that are of interest to every citizen of Serbia. Can we do this so it doesn't? We can talk about Ellen Doll. Our esteemed colleague Ivan Zivadinović, who until the other day was our colleague, is now an assistant director, and who has all my respect, I must say, no matter what party he is from, knows this very well what I'm talking about. Cretan deer Do is a gold mine, not a stone, in a symbolic sense. That's where Mesic's daughter bought it and some others, etc., also got the right to exploit the limestone without paying anyone for it. The fact that they got the obligation to use water fog, so to speak, to stop the dust, that doesn't mean anything. There's the environment still at the same level as it was a few years ago. They inherited several acres of potential Mayan, and that's a few acres up, a few hundred meters, that's a whole hill. This morning I was talking about Lafarg exploiting it, a hundred times I'm saying it, and I want to say it 150 times, a laser in the territory of Fruska Gora National Park. No concession, the privatisation contract is not regulated as it will. Now I ask how it is possible for the state to pass the law to declare Golia to be protected by natural well-being. One institute, such as the Institute of Potato Gucha, is officially informed that it can no longer produce any potatoes in Golia because it is protected natural well-being, and now we are having a big debate to decompose the institute, and that in the middle of Fruska National Park, Lafarž has been uninterrupted to exploit the laporac. I remind you, it wasn't Lafarg who bought anything other than a rotational stove, a fax machine, a car, a desk with a secretary, a few light bulbs, and I don't know what else. He didn't buy a mayday, and no one can sell him a mayonnaise, that's what he's talking about. He can, on the basis of the concession law, get the right to exploit the laporac for a number of years under certain conditions that are very precise and very strict. In that sense, I beg for seriousness. So, I'm extremely serious, Mr. Minister. So, in this matter, we give you support. I've been giving you support on this issue for seven years. So I used your data seven times here. Now, can I ask you, to bring this to an end and say, okay, we'll get it in next year, in this year, because look at any river in Serbia, criminals, hohstapplers, destroy the water streams, take thousands of cubic gravel, that's the worst, blackest mobsters in Serbia. In Cačka, people died because of this, the famous case of Svetovic. Therefore, please, can we stop this savagery in this area, that those who do so do so with permission and that those who do so with a fair salary to the state of Serbia, that all citizens benefit from it, because the price of one apartment in Serbia, Belgrade, is 2,000 euros, among other things, because cement is expensive and because these thieves steal gravel and sell it because they want sand in Serbia, and that the state does not benefit from it. All those who are seriously involved in this work will have our absolute support both in local congregations and in parliament. If the law is to be passed, here's public on behalf of the SPS I say, we'll vote for every law and we won't write any amendments, we won't spend one second of our time, just bring it in to ensure that the state benefits from it, that criminals are where they're supposed to be. Once again, Mr. Minister, I ask you to push this thing all the way out, I believe you can. If this is over with this privatisation protectionist thing, let's start now from the beginning if possible, because many of the privatisations were like this. Once the opportunity comes, I will explain what the change in excise duty looked like right before the tobacco industry was bought, so the one who became owner of the tobacco factories in Serbia became a domestic cigarette producer overnight. We said the excise on domestic cigarettes was smaller, so one billion, in 2002, we eliminated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14831	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14832	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think Mrs. Tabakovic's amendment is far too much. I don't want to repeat any long arguments, of course I do, and I always thought it was very good that the factory owner, anything, should have his name and name. So, I support privatisation, but of course I also support the protection of state interests in this privatisation. I don't see why we don't get guarantees about the future owner of the factory or anything else in our house, why don't we have a clear insight into how much and how it needs to invest in the future factory. You know, I can own a factory in Romania or Hungary, a competitive factory, and I have an interest in buying a factory in Serbia and putting a lock on that factory tomorrow, either literally, or in some kind of transferable sense, so I won't invest anything in it, so it'll lose itself in a few years. As for this second part on the protection of natural resources, of course it does not need to be explained in particular. Of course, as a state, we're interested in protecting natural resources, because today being the owner of one factory doesn't mean that tomorrow it won't be owned by someone else's factory, who will work again in accordance with its interests, of course, but also by the state. So, to make a short story short, I think there's enough reason for the bill promoter to think about it one more time. I think it would be good to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14833	Thank you, Professor. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14834	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague Misa Petronijevic has submitted an amendment to be in Article 16. The bill, which amends Article 41 of the current law, changes the initial sentence and reads, and then adds Article 7 which reads: "The content of the social programme on employee issues is determined by an agreement between the representative trade unions of branches at the level of the Republic and the Privatisation Agency". Namely, counterpart Petronijevic felt that there was a need to define the content of the social programme, i.e. resolving the issues of employees by some type of agreement between representative unions of branches and activities at Serbia-Privatisation Agency level, and that this need stems from the fact that it is a social programme that should define and establish social partners, not only the Privatisation Agency. Of course, I do not need to remind that counterpart Misa Petronijevic submitted this amendment on behalf of the SPS, but I must say that some of these amendments have been submitted in agreement with the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, because there is a mutual interest in the provisions of this law, which today is the subject of a parliamentary debate and the subject of an amendment, being as good as possible in the interest of those categories of people to which this law applies, in this case of these employees. In order for me to explain as best as possible some of the reasons for submitting this amendment, allow me to quote and respond to this amendment. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the amendment because, in the government's view, social programmes dealing with the issue of employees are an integral part of the privatisation programme, i.e. tender documentation. The government says "that employees of different economic branches and different privatisation entities in terms of resolving the situation of employees would not be in an unequal position, social programmes have been tailored to the needs of the privatisation process. In view of the fact that the social enterprises that are to be privatised, in a number of cases, are unattractive (as a result of the work done or due to the debt-confidential relationship) for the further flow of privatisation and the time limit in which privatisation should be completed, we believe that the conduct of trade negotiations with trade unions and additional social burdens on customers would be irrational and would, to an even greater extent, eliminate the number of potential customers and eventually lead to the bankruptcy of such companies. ''I think this response by the Government of the Republic of Serbia speaks of the concept represented by the Government in the privatisation process, it is necessary to sell everything at any cost. It is not at all the point of the interest of the Republic of Serbia, at least not to the extent to which we have an example for the sake of the Socialists, we estimate that this can be the interest of the Republic of Serbia. The point here is that as soon as companies are privatized, this process ends, as they like to say, turning social property into private property, and that's the process they've been working on for years back. According to this answer, it could be concluded that so far everything has been great, and what has been a bad change is being made through changes and additions to the law in order to create conditions for privatisation to be even more effective. Since I said that part of the amendment, my colleague Petronijevic and the other SPS MPs have submitted together with the Alliance of Independent Unions, I must say that we have received from them the appropriate documentation that speaks of the process of privatisation from the angle at which the union sees it, and I must say that this angle is no different from the angle that we have in the SPS and which gives a different picture of the privatisation process in Serbia. In fact, not a few times we socialists have said that privatisation was a robbery, because if you sell 2,000 of the best companies for two billion dollars, it's in itself saying that a huge social fortune has been sold below the price. I mentioned today on the second amendment that 49% of Telekom was sold for a billion and 536 million marks, meaning 49% of one part of a public enterprise and two thousand of the best companies for two billion, which says the DOS after 2000 had a concept of how to rob Serbia's economy through the privatisation process. If there's another expression for the privatisation process that's been done, then I'd like someone here to expose it and say that privatisation was just, economical development, economically just, socially just and transparent. Why? Because none of it was, on the contrary, privatisation was everything but that. The union gave us a number of information that tells us what was going on in the privatisation process, the way of course the union observes it, and these were the motives that were run by the union to turn to us to submit some amendments on their behalf. Obviously, the rejection of this amendment shows that simply the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want any union as a partner that would appear in the privatisation process, not only the union, but anyone. It simply wants to be the first and last factor of the whole privatisation process and to determine the whole privatisation process, to make privatisation as plastic as easy as possible and, of course, to satisfy the final customer. In fact, over the past few years, we've heard the type's explanation -- no one will answer if there's a possible protection of employees' rights, and if a union shows up in any part of it from the point of view of the privatisation process. Not to mention this story about the best companies that have been sold for a living. I have to, I just think it's an obligation for us MPs who disagree with the concept of privatisation that DOS promoted in 2001 and beyond. Not only have they reduced the rights of employees, but what was part of the wealth of these companies has been sold for good reason. Remember, respected colleagues, that at the centre of Belgrade, companies for funny money were sold here, and that later the sale of parts of these companies paid off their liabilities to the state. The trade union, for example, works in this material that has provided us finds that for most privatised enterprises, it is a common disregard for purchase contracts in the part relating to the social programme. I deliberately mention the social programme, investments and obligations relating to the care of extra employees. The "Lateks" from Cačka is mentioned, so the "Slog" from Vladic's Han, the Mitrovica industry, "Zupa" from Kruševac, "Ukras" from Bela Palanka, "Gervin" from Književec, "Putnik" from Belgrade, "Srbijaturs" from Nis, "The Paper Factory from Belgrade etc., is mentioned as cases that are known, and you can only imagine how many of these other cases that have not been known and which have occurred, which have been objectively very bad. It was clearly seen throughout the privatisation process that privatisation was done in a way that simply did not want to be allowed to respect employees' rights in any way. You yourself know that the content of the social programme is also related to the length of payment of those who stayed in the company, to some level of profit, and then to the obligation of the new owner not to be fired or to provide for the release of a small number, so there are talk of possible requalification, stimulation for increasing the number of employees, etc. Unfortunately, I have to say, at least from what we saw, that in practice it wasn't so, that the new owners did literally what they wanted, that privatisation had consequences not only a drastic violation of employees' rights, not in the work relating to employees' rights, the height of personal income, the way in which they were paid personal income, but simply brought into a state that they were no longer employed. And this is one of the few privatisations that has resulted in the increase in the number of unemployed people in Serbia by more than 290,000, as the union finds, saying what the concept of privatisation was. We felt that there was absolutely a need for representative trade unions to be involved and to establish simple basic elements of importance for employee issues. I know the other concept has other content, but we thought this amendment absolutely made sense. If something was wrong, I guess the logic is now at the end of 2007 to pass a law that will fix it. If it continues with bad practice, and yet the independent union is a representative union and it has a brightness of very logical, accurate and convincing factual claims about what it says, or evidence, then it would be logical to listen to them too. If the essence of the whole privatisation process is that huge social wealth is sold, that the state simply shows up as a repairman, that it has no strategy. I asked the other minister the other day if he had one company in Serbia that was the subject of privatisation, and if the state had shown interest in him, to say this is our strategic partner, and that I would like to hear it, and I cited an example of a factory from Alexandrovac to clean up raw materials for the production of water that was privatized, and it was the only one in Serbia, and if it had not come to what happened, it would have happened that we would have bought these raw materials from our neighbours from Bulgaria. So either the concept is to privatize everything, so when the privateer becomes the owner of that company, then the state will say, this is our strategic partner. In that privatisation, unfortunately, there were so many blurry things. Because of what happened years ago, I'm not convinced and I'm socialists that the many abuses that took place during the privatisation will be seen at a recent time by light days, but will see for sure sooner or later. The crimes committed during privatisation cannot become obsolete and individual persons will sooner or later respond. It seems to me that my SPS colleagues and I have been dealing with the privatisation of Sartida for several years, the largest corruption case in the Republic of Serbia, and everyone is silent and closing their eyes. How is it possible that the company, whose value by the Economic Institute is estimated at $56 million, will be sold for $23 million, and that our ambassador to America announces that it's $33 million and that it never deny itself, that it doesn't know where $10 million is missing just in that case alone. The Council's report on the fight against corruption says that the government is directly involved to the top, headed by the Prime Minister, the Resort Minister and the people who technically served, politically or economically, we'll see when it comes out in the light of day, serving these people. How can the case be excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Commerce and transferred to the Commercial Court in Belgrade overnight? How is it possible for privatisations to be carried out without the possibility of public competition, for someone else to make their offer, how is it possible for the state to take over the "Sartida" obligations it was? All this talk of doing it to achieve some ultimate goal, unfortunately, is not true. In fact, no, it's true, but for someone, someone has achieved a very specific goal, someone has filled the money and opened up some new accounts in the Sessels and other islands and become rich, and someone has achieved the goal exactly. But from the point of view of the people who are in Smederev, and since I mentioned Smedereva, people have asked, where is that part of the money that should be, or that goes to local self-government? I mentioned one example, not to mention everything else. You remember that the Germans reacted in one way, so they threatened to launch a court dispute, so apparently they calmed down in another way, since it was a public secret that the Serbian market was defined in different areas, so the Greeks got their share in banking, the Germans got their share, the Austrians got their share, and then the banks grow like mushrooms after the rain, and the citizens, of course, have to because of the economic situation that exists in Serbia to take credit with huge interest rates. Otherwise, you can't find such interest rates in the west. So, if privatisation wasn't the way it was, there would certainly be no reason for us to react to the SPS and there would be no reason for the stand-alone union's views, nor for the submission of this amendment. In bad experiences, we're trying to make a bad law anyway, to make something better, at least in one part of protecting employees' rights, because that's our goal, the rights of employees. The second goal is to sell the company or to have one of the private clients, unfortunately, get this small-money company from advance customers, we have the interest of employees, because they have their family members and their jobs and, of course, we care about their interest as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-21-0.u14835	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We have reached an amendment to Article 16 submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Thank you all very much, we'll finish today's work and continue Monday at 10.00 hours.
