ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6631	Mr. President, honourable MPs, the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia is today the most important topic in our country and clearly opens the controversy on macroeconomic policy. Of course, when Serbia is measured with countries around the world, according to macroeconomic stability today, Serbia, measured at the world economic forum, takes 89th place. The question is, and where is Serbia in its power? The power of the state of Serbia is somewhere around 60th of the world. Then the question arises, why, by macroeconomic stability, by these main parameters, does Serbia not take the very place it deserves? It is necessary, as the National Bank of Serbia is doing today, to be committed to macroeconomic stability in the longer run. Because, as you know, our country has defined itself as European integration, and that involves certain processes, and that means taking monetary policy in that direction. What does that really mean? So in order to join the monetary union, what today is modern values in the European Union, it is necessary to meet certain criteria, called convergence criteria, which are stable prices of number one. Number one in the European Union are stable prices, number two - exchange rate stability, three - good public finances, four - low interest rates and five - laws that this country complies with the EU's Aki communitre regulations. What is the use of such a policy? It is useful to have the end of the uncertainty of exchange rates, to reduce transaction costs, to have higher price stability and that the guarantee of future monetary stability exists due to the commitment to price stability. One segment deliberately points out, and that's price stability. Why am I doing this? When you look at the National Bank of Serbia's Memorandum on the principles of a new monetary policy framework on the path towards achieving low inflation objectives, it says that the new monetary framework adopted as part of the programme aims to create an environment characterised by a low and stable inflation rate consistent with the criteria foreseen for the accession process to the European Union, to encourage the use of domestic currency and trust in domestic currency. In other words, inflation will no longer be the main concerns of citizens and businesses, i.e. The fear of preserving the real value of income and cash assets will stop, the savings in dinars will be more cost-effective than the savings in foreign exchanges, etc. Of course, it's not enough just to run a responsible monetary policy. We need to lead monetary policy in a good partner way with good public finance management. Because when the issue of low inflation is raised, the question is inevitably raised, I'm sorry, and how much is it to bring inflation to an appropriate low level? It is most important to point out that the cost of cost is less than the effect low inflation has on a longer period of time. In the whole world, a process called creating low inflation, a process called the creation of central bank independence, would not be an active process that is now being conducted not only in the EU, it is also known in the US, Canada, Japan. Clearly, commitment to the solid dinar process is something that is characterized by the National Bank of Serbia today. It should certainly be said that it is not enough to leave only to the National Bank of Serbia to conduct monetary policy. The restructuring of public enterprises and privatisation of the part of public enterprises needed is needed, which is important for stopping public spending, because the National Bank of Serbia cannot do it alone. So when we hear criticisms from the governors of the National Bank of Serbia against finance ministers, and from the previous finance minister and the current one, this is for a reason and an excuse to jointly lead a good public finance policy and a good monetary policy in Serbia. If we recall, a dinar in Serbia was introduced 134 years ago. Somehow, due to the name and appearance of the dinars is Cedomilj Mijatovic, who is also the godfathers of the currency. Somehow inflation appeared in 1923 and since 1923, long inflation has been impossible to contain or prevent. But the people who had been the priority and the task of introducing a stable currency in our country, of course, will remember Grandpa Avram, and Mladjan Dinkic, and Radovan Jelasic. The psychic advocate of European integration and the man most responsible for those steps in that direction was Jean Mone. He said nothing can do without an individual and nothing is permanent without institutions. This individual, named Radovan Jelasic, has all the necessary characteristics and merits to continue to do the job to keep our dinar firm, that there is no inflation in Serbia and that he seeks to insist on leading a consistent monetary policy, together with public finances, that we have macroeconomic stability in the longer term. Also, by choosing Radovan Jelasic, we guarantee the stability of an institution that is the National Bank of Serbia. The stability of long-term institutions is something that also brings foreign direct investment, is something that creates suitable conditions for investors, because it means security. Thank you and I invite all Members of the People to choose Radovan Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you and cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6632	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and then MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared, and then MP Milosav Milickovic, and then MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. That's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6633	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I would also like to address the issue to the President of the Assembly and to all others who are in charge of the case of citizens and health insurance officers of the Municipality of Stara Paz. In fact, six months ago, the health insurance companies of the municipality of Stara Paz addressed the Ministry of Health and Government, the Republic and the Regional Institute of Health Insurance and all others they thought were responsible for, to solve a very complicated case, or to solve what made it impossible for them to receive medical services from health institutions that they had been addressing since after the war. Since 1 January 2007, by way of implementing the Regulation on the way and procedure of exercising health insurance obligations, they have been denied the right to go to treatment, i.e. to specialist-consultative examinations and hospital treatment at the institutions of Belgrade and Zemun for one administrative reason, despite the fact that they belong to the Sremska Mitrovica branches. With all due respect, colleagues from Sremska Mitrovica, it is not a professional moment, but it is that they do not, first of all, have adequate transport, there are no public communications lines, no buses, no railways, no other services, so they would have to address these services by personal transport or by using a taxi, but for one or the other standard does not allow them. Furthermore, Sremska Mitrovica is on average 60 to 80 km away from Stara Pazova. On the other side of the municipalities of Stara Pazova borders the municipality of Belgrade, there are many public transport lines, so railways, there are two communications, two highways, one highway, even local lines. The citizens addressed everyone in charge six months ago. No one said anything to them. They spoke to the SPS, hoping that the SPS would have the hearing to see the problem, to potentiate it, and to help solve a problem like this. We believe that the rules, first of all, have abolished what the law has so far allowed them, and on the other hand, the SAA believes that all rules, all legal and sublegal acts should be adopted primarily in order to assist and facilitate citizens of Serbia in the exercise of their legal and constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6634	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and then MP Milosav Milickovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6635	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have reported in advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure not with the intention of launching now discussions that are common and characteristic for the Serbian parliament, but with the intention of showing that there are situations in which we are able to behave in a way that would imply a broader context than a party. Mr. President, I have reported in accordance with Article 80, although I am not even sure that this member is sufficient for an engagement that I will ask for on behalf of our parliamentary group personally, first as one young man, and then as president of the Serbian Parliament. Namely, Article 80. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set out the obligation to write the minutes accompanying the work of the session of the Assembly Committee. I would ask you, as President of Parliament, to request a minutes from the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, to make an insight into the very course of that session, and then to invite you to organise a meeting of the heads of parliament, where Parliament's reaction to what happened yesterday at the Committee's session would be determined. I would remind you that a member of the 59th found that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is considering all issues related to this province, taking into account, above all, the Serbian national and state interests. With the responsibility of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija in mind, we cannot go beyond the fact that an MP at that session of the Committee has allowed himself incredible behavior. In response to the criticism of the MPs of our parliamentary group, Mr Vladan Batic, an MP, which is the least important to me personally, but from the DSS and it is Mr Jaksic, he humiliated parliament, not Mr Batic, offended Serbian citizens rather than the Liberal Democratic Party. I think it's unacceptable the silence that parliament is going through yesterday's event. Most in the congregation knew about it during yesterday, but no one responded to it. Instead of answering the question asked, Mr. Batic was forced to face an incredible fall, which Mr. Jaksic himself speaks of enough with his views. What did the DSS MP say? He asked Mr Batic to shut up and not to further compromise the work of the Committee and the Serbian Parliament with his Roma and gypsies. In 2007, in Serbia, at a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. We are not going to make any particular problem of this, because we believe that this event is in itself so large and unacceptable that there is no need to talk about its dimensions, but I expect from you as Parliament's president to make an insight into the record, to see for yourself the credibility of what I have just said, and then to invite the heads of parliament and help the Serbian Parliament clear the most significant state institution, which has been applied by this uncontrollable step. I apologize, of course, to everyone who feels hurt, which is the least Mr Batic and LDP, but we do not want to be silent about this, especially because of the situation in which Serbia is located, especially because of the place where it happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6636	Mr Jovanovic, the meeting of the heads of parliament's groups is already scheduled in a break between the conclusion of the debate on this agenda and voting days, so we will discuss this. Here, replica, MP Jaksic, is directly mentioned, that is the topic, so let's close that topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6637	Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, the respected presidency, it is true, yesterday at the session of the Kosovo Committee, I had the opportunity to speak to Mr Batic in a heated conversation, a story, that he had a gypsy mentality. On this occasion, I want to apologize, first of all, to the members of the Roma people, to the Roma, but here I meant the gypsies as a personality, a character of Mr Batic. And I don't think it has anything to do with the nation or the nation or the Roma... Mr. Jaksic, please... ) ... And on this occasion, I want to apologize to all the Roma, for that very reason. On the other hand, I have to tell you what my opinion of the Roma is best spoken by the Roma people of northern Kosovo Mitrovica, where they are in fact provided with everything. So no one touches them, no one insults them, no one harasss them, and those of us have the most protection. But as for Mr. Batic, I must say here that the same gentleman challenged me and invited me to take physical action, in which I have witnesses, members of the MPs who were here. Also, on the other hand, he made a public and loud threat to me that he would invite some people who would take revenge on me and who would deal with me personally. I also have witnesses who were there. So, no matter what happens and what happens, I'm taking another chance on the Roma as an ethnic group, as a nation, I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything by them. But for Mr Batic, I can say, what is important and important, which is not to perform my physiological needs where to go home, but to come to this assembly, to this house, urinate and defecate on all of us and simply to make a factual insult and the very appearance and the Committee on Kosovo, because first of all, it came to a session, one such important and important issue to destroy and bring down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6639	Thank you. Thank God, time's up. Here you go. I'm sorry, we have a little problem, now that we've opened a very serious topic, I think it was absolutely inappropriate what was said from this pay phone and it caused a certain reaction from the MPs, so I'm giving a five-minute break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament just to meet me in the room one. [[After break – 10.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. At these brief consultations of the heads of parliament groups, we agreed that something was said today for this assembly speaker that must not be spoken for by the assembly speaker. For this reason, of course, I give the MP Mark Jaksic a warning measure. I would like to make an apology to all those who might find themselves affected by the words spoken today from this pay phone, with the hope that this will never happen again and that the assembly speaker will not be a place where any nation, any MP or any citizen of our country will be offended. Please continue your work now. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milosav Milickovic and then MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning when we were coming to the assembly session, we could see outside the entrance to the National Assembly, and I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 and 226 of Parliament, we saw a mother with a six-month-old child, otherwise a single mother with four children, the youngest of whom is six months old, and she's in the arms of that person. It's in front of the Assembly, and the local authorities at Vozdovac brutally kicked her out of the apartment the day before yesterday, and she really doesn't have a solution. Her husband died. It has no other solution than to settle where it is located, in some apartment of the hotel "Serbia" which daily costs 9,000 dinars. Since you, President of Parliament, are from the DS, that the defence minister from your party, who has ordered this eviction, is a person who is employed at the Military Academy and has emigrated illegally to an abandoned apartment that has not been used for ten years, without windows, without lights, without anything, where bats and rats have moved. She and her late husband adapted the apartment, settled in, took care of four children. And here, today I'm informing the public that since the day before yesterday these people and those children are now on the street. I demand that the president of parliament take measures, call on the smart minister of Sutanovac, that the president of the municipality, who is also from the DS, call on reason and not to deal with Hajduci, because the municipal inspection, without any solution, without any prior notice, practically brutally evicted this family from the apartment she lived in for a long time. So, Mr. President, this doesn't take a delay and I demand an emergency response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6642	Totally. I'm just asking you to give me information on the person that this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6643	It's about Divna Lukić, and the apartment is in Banjica, Bulevar Liberation 68, Apartment 35. By the way, the apartment's less than 30 square feet away, so someone doesn't think, so it's an abandoned room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6644	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6645	I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100-104. I want to actually advertise the misread words of my discussion yesterday, and for what Mr Albianic said about this speaker. Taking credit for one man's price stability is an illusion broken after Dragoslav Avramovic. There is no Jelasic and this man who runs finance in his hands, who has a magic wand and who can, with his potential knowledge, genius or anything like that, hold stable prices. Today everyone knows that Dragoslav Avramovic's project was behind the whole team of economists, one good part of them was sitting and sitting in Ces Mekon today, and above all, there was a political decision to break inflation in those proportions. One question is the basics I want to ask you and all the citizens. What is the meaning of Parliamentism and public words to us, the chosen people, if people say, you will talk here for a day or two, and they are already preparing a celebration? What's the point of the arguments we make here if they're kept quiet. Should I repeat the question - where did Mr Jelasic prove his expertise? Whether it was a public competition, so a doctorate was sought in the area, a specialist area, a work experience, or, in fact, political belongings somehow qualified him to perform that function. We heard yesterday from Mrs. Borka Vukic, Mr. Jelasic had a year's work experience in banking. He came to the governor's post, so there's no dilemma, like a political face, not a professional face. And I don't mind that he's a member of the G17, and I don't mind that he does the job of governors in the interests of Mladjan Dinkic, Nik Giovanni, members of the G17, their measles and friends, and I don't mind that the job of the governor of the National Bank is doing harm to the people of Serbia, to the burden of budget, misusing each of us as neat payers. The last question, who do you deceive here that targeted inflation and stability is the goal of the governor, who, at all costs, defends his expertise and his non-politicalism? I will answer with the words of one who supports Jelasic today. Mr Djelic of DS in an interview with "Politici" says: "The majority privatisation of NIS, Telecom and EPS is not in play (these are the public enterprises that you say should privatise, the governor is looking for because it is cheap). Under the influence of international business circles (it is those who have recommended it and brought it), those who would like to pick up intermediation fees and include dividends want to sell the entire NIS now. ''That is why you are seeking the privatisation of public enterprises: intermediate commissions, which in the newly obtained material about privatising insurance companies, you have foreseen further as a system. Citizens of Serbia, what money can do, no army can. Governor Jelasic's choice proves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6646	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, reporting for breach of article 104. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the dignity of not only the National Assembly was injured, but every citizen in this country, any nationality he was. The LSDV requires the DSS, from its leadership, to take the term of office of a gentleman who openly spreads hate speech from this pay phone. Unfortunately, none of the DSS representatives are presently in the O.R., I hope they get to them somehow. So the least the DSS can do is take away this man's mandate. LSDV will not sit with fascists in this assembly, this was pure fascism as it was said, and we believe that the assembly speaker is not the place to spread hate speech from it, even if it is what those who are dressed as Democrats and who represent themselves as such. What is happening from this assembly pay phone at a meeting is quite understandable in a country where on October 7th, on Himmler's birthday, in the middle of Novi Sad it is allowed to gather the Nazis, to make their march. The LSDV has asked the coalition several times to ban this set. Of course, given what party the minister of police comes from, it is understandable that this is not happening and that it is perfectly normal for them to think that the Roma people have such or such mentality or that an ugly character is to tell someone that Roma is, of course, allowed to organize neo-Nazi marches. I'm just asking a question, since Mr. Jaksic is also a member of our negotiating team, we're kind of wondering how he's going to be able to talk there with Condoleezza Rice, who, for example, is not a white race or with some Chinese, that he, who has such racist views, will succeed in defending Kosovo and how does he represent our country in the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6648	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6649	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, Mr. President, I asked you to explain... (President: The lady is from the Information Service of the Assembly and is taking a photo for the National Assembly website. Here you go. ) Mr. President, yesterday I asked you a question that you did not answer, because before September 12, I asked you when the choice of governor, judge of the Constitutional Court, would be on the agenda. You said at the next session, after laws were previously passed that govern the area. No law has been passed on the National Bank, no council has been chosen by the governor of the National Bank, and the governor is elected. The answer you didn't give me, that's one thing. Another thing, it's like a virtual session to choose a virtual governor. We don't have an official proposal, we don't have a proposal, and we've been discussing something for two days. Third, a question for the finance minister, does he know that in any country in the world, the National Bank is advertised and advertised. The NBS, under Radovan Jelasic's leadership, spends a lot of money on marketing. So who's the competition to the National Bank, what's the advertising of the National Bank, what's the marketing agency, what's the point of that? Why are people's money being spent? No one's ever answered that. And finally, over what caused the session's interruption, for my part, although not caused by anything, I want to apologize to all the members of Roma nationality. I had a lot of friends in school, in the army, in the city where I live, and I don't see anything wrong with them, that someone's branding because he's a member of Roma nationality or even a gypsies. I have to tell you, and the members of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija who attended yesterday's session will testify that I was merely presenting the positions of the DHSS, the LDP parliamentary group I belonged to and I did not speak to Mark Jaksic in one word. Obviously, he was provoked by it, and apparently he felt it was a top insult to tell someone it was Roma or gypsies. It is truly the most terrible thing that this man will represent us in some negotiations. Not to mention Mark Jaksic personally, he is not important at all, but who thinks so in Europe in the 21st century. For similar things, some people are in The Hague. Of course, I'm not demanding anything, but I think some warning is too mild a punishment for something that is obviously a model of behaviour for some political parties and their members in Serbia. It just can't happen. Another apology to all Roma, all gypsies. People only divide by what they are, not what color they are, or what nationality they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6650	Thank you. Let me give you an explanation for this session for a moment. Therefore, the Constitutional Law, Article 5, stipulates that the governor of the NBS is elected at the first meeting after the government's election and is not conditioned to adopt laws defining the area at the same session, while for the Constitutional Court that condition exists. The Law governing the Constitutional Court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of its decisions, will be brought to the session at which judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. Since we still don't have those laws in the process, and when we do, then we're going to execute the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges. Well, that's just my explanation. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6651	Mr. President, you've only expanded the subject. In fact, there is a connection between the choice of governors and the law on the National Bank. It's not explicitly stated as an obligation at the second session, after the government's constitution, but don't tell me we can choose the governor of the National Bank, of which there is no law. It's your thesis that we can choose a president of a state on which there is no law, so now you're passing it on to the National Bank. Although we from the SRS are absolutely convinced that the election of Radovan Jelasic is to be prevented by the governor of the National Bank and that, after eight years of hiduciju in the National Bank, theft, kidnapping and robbery led by Mladjan Dinkic, someone should enter the fair and only after a month to tell the public whether the SRS is right when he says that, as he entered with the guns, Mladjan Dinkic is now holding that function in the National Bank, or not, so it may be an honest man. Unfortunately, we would not want the session to be interrupted because of this unkind event that has spread since yesterday or because of what the young colleague said a few minutes ago. I can say a lot of bad things about the DSS, but I can't say it's a fascist party. No political party in Serbia can say that it is fascist. Those who say so intend to present Serbia as a country where fascists can be MPs, in which fascist parties can be in power. That's not true. They'll probably defend themselves in some other way. Looking at political life in Serbia and participating in it for 18 years, I have not noticed that in the elections any fascist party has ever achieved any success. If you're so consistent, young co-worker, break up the coalition with the DSS in Sremska Mitrovica, in Vienna, in Ruma, because I can't imagine you have a problem with their fascism here without being in your local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6652	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic. Then I suggest we move to a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6653	Mr. President, when I said earlier that no law was passed on to the National Bank, you said that, explaining when the governor would be elected. Those are your words from the September 12th session. Don't run away from what you gave as an explanation. You said the National Bank law had to be passed first, so we'll pick the governor later. That's the one thing I answered. Second, while I was talking earlier, the transmission of RTS was cut off, some of the personnel were released from an opera. Nothing would be very scary or very important, but what does it matter? Because the only man who spoke publicly to me, so I think this is some matrix, because they function at the same wavelength, similar insults, trying to offend me in such a way, and offended the people who belong to Roma nationality, means the same man, Aleksandar Tijanic, is the only man who told me in my life until his like-minded man Marko Jaksic repeated it yesterday. So, the Director of the Public Service, in order to make it impossible to hear what I'm about to say, interrupted the session transmission at the time I was speaking. Please, Mr. President, because it is important that you examine this phenomenally, and that you inform parliament about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6654	I'll ask, of course. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6655	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since my report to the Rules of Procedure has produced an even worse situation than the one we wanted to point out by asking you to respond to yesterday's events, I am obliged not to end this controversy, but to direct it to those addresses that will lead to a better result. We can appreciate your personal efforts, Mr. President, which you've invested to preserve that furry credibility of the National Assembly. I think you're aware that you failed. On our part, we have made a major contribution in our efforts to at least put ourselves as human and not as party officials or MPs of any parliamentary group. Mr Batic performed as a politician yesterday. We can get along politically and diverge, but the relationship to human life, according to personal dignity, must be unique. If we go over those words in the Serbian Parliament, do we have the right to be surprised at the consequences of such negligence and irresponsibility? How many times have we faced reports in which we are familiar with skinhead victims, racially motivated violence, incidents resulting from the political irresponsibility of the bearers of the most important state functions. Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry, but you weren't in the O.R. when we started working today. Advertising the Rules of Procedure was not the result of the intention to underline the political differences that exist between us. I said the least important part of which parliamentary group is MP Jaksic. It is devastating for us that such a political personality exists in the Assembly and in our public life, and that is why we wanted a single reaction from Parliament. We know there are representatives of the Roma people in the SRS parliamentary group. We know that in the SRS voters, as well as in other parties, there are representatives of the Roma people. They are specifically endangered in our society, less than in some others, but the fact that these incidents exist obliges us to a very clear condemnation of proceedings, including Mr. Jaksic. It is bad that we have to prove that Serbia is a democratic and free country by talking about it, rather than by doing so by the competent state institutions. For every conviction is the silence of the MUP, because silence is a sign of approval. If we know that October 7th is the day in which someone marks, I do not say Serbia and I do not say representatives of Serbian society, but someone in Serbia marks Himler's birthday, by announcing on behalf of Serbia a march that preserves Serb unity, then those who consider themselves the protectors of Serbian national interest must be the first to react to such a thing. The police can't keep their mouths shut, because if the police are silent, then that means there are no institutions that are required to enforce the law and the Constitution. It's a fascia of our society. The parties that claim themselves to be democratic, may point to their democratic results and make democratic moves, let them not be silent about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6656	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6657	Mr. Dulic, I'm reporting under that provision of the Rules of Procedure which gives me the right to inform you of what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6658	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6659	Article 27, Mr. Dulic, in one and not so widely interpreted, but you won't let me explain, let me tell you what the facts are. But, well, I'm used to much worse things. This is a sneeze compared to the other one. What's this about? It's become some sort of liquid that the National Assembly sessions are transmitted directly, so who likes to watch, who doesn't like changing channels. Yesterday, at the end of the work, while the direct transmission was still taking place, the text went up, as they say, where RTS, or where this JUL Minister of JUL apologizes to viewers for not being able to watch volleyball or some sports game, because it is the National Assembly's transfer. (From O.R.: It's an order. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. Now, Mr. Dulic, I don't know if there's any instrument to bring this former JUL-based Information Minister into elemental order and discipline, which would not endanger the state. So I'm not asking for anything more than that minimum, if you're going to put it in a corner to be on corn, if you're going to reprimand it, if you're going to threaten him with some criminal charges, and there's material, I don't know. Whatever means you use, be at your disposal, but you must forbid anyone to insult the institution. You're particularly interested in it because it offends an institution whose head you're the first among the equals. He used to know that he was public, so he could say, "No matter what those messengers want there, what the National Assembly wants, etc." No one in this National Assembly is because of beauty, honor for some exceptions. I guess that's where the citizens' representatives are, they're here to talk about what the state's interest is, what the national interest is, what political views are. There's a man who can't see. He can't see. He'll turn around. I know now that they're listening to this, maybe a third is cursing, what this one's saying, maybe two-thirds of them say -- well done, there's different comments, but give something elemental about which there's no slowness. Do for an ear, for a nose, for whatever you catch him for, but tell him to shut up and don't make a circus out of RTS. Or let him confess to you what his personal interest is so hurt by the transfer of the National Assembly's session, because if he continues to do this to us, the only thing left to form a survey board, let's see what RTS's behavior is. It is only now clear to me, Mr. Korać, that it is probably clear to you now, since you are a big fan of the public information law, why the founding rights should have been in the Assembly. I've been following him from the time of "Start," when he wrote for that Zagreb leaf. A man has no political stance, appears as a columnist, on March 1st writes one, March 28th completely different, he denied himself. Is there any reasonable power or mercy in this country that this man can in some way please to open those cameras, to let the citizens watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6660	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zarko Koraq; and let the messenger of Nadika Momirov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6661	Mr. President, honourable MPs, just one answer. The Public Information Act provided for a person who meets very strict criteria to be the director of the Public Service. Aleksandar Tijanic was elected against the law because he did not meet the legal conditions to be elected to that place, i.e. he did not have a university, so the statute of the RTS itself is not respected. And not to mention that it's a man who doesn't meet the basic condition, which is to represent in a broader sense the public interest. As a man who was a minister in a government and a man close to Mrs Mirjana Markovic, he expressed his political commitment, but this assembly did not react. This congregation does not only have a law-making function, but also rules of law enforcement. Now you will pay the price of a man like this becoming the director of the Public Service. As for the incident, on my behalf, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for sitting in the Assembly where the man, who apologizes for the racist fallout, and then, of course, it is up to all of us and all Serbian citizens to accept it or not to accept it, is much worse and more serious, where he says he meant no people but thought of his mentality. Gentlemen, that's the definition of racism, that the people have mentality. The people have no character, no mentality, it has an individual. Peoples, ethnic groups and religious groups have systems of values that are variable. So, what's said here is terrible, and I guess, since there's not a single DSS MP here, that they now, their parliamentary group, are talking about this, but it's really minimum to take away the mandate of this man, who's in charge of state functions, who's supposed to represent our country in the Kosovo status negotiations tomorrow. So, the man who apologizes makes a worse insult really now puts me in doubt that he actually means what he said. A man can really make a big mistake, so he's allowed to apologize, but when a man who, by apologizing, repeats the worse thing, then I have to say that it really goes beyond all limits. By the way, Mr. Batic did not want to say, the director of the Public Service wrote a text saying that Mr. Batic was burned, that he was very black for a Serb, so the same racist insult. The text would be sufficient for him not to be the Director of the Public Service. Just for a little while, to get back on the subject... He wrote a text, anyone can get it and read it, and it's in one very graphic list. The remarks on Governor Jelasic's account, that is, his choice here, as far as the men were concerned were not of professional character. That's what I leave to the economy experts, to finance. I said it was his credibility and that credibility was seriously marred by not answering clearly, first of all, on charges that he bought the house without paying a proper tax. There is no democratic country in today's world that would allow this issue to remain unclear and that the tax administration, the tax inspection, does not determine whether a corresponding tax has actually been paid. If he's not paid, it's about evasion, it's about embezzlement, or I don't know what word to use. A man like that can't be governor of the National Bank, not to mention that there are other sanctions for what's been done. We didn't get any credible answers, did the governor ask for surveillance to be carried out, that the IRS determines it's all true. Everyone in this room knows that this house costs more and that it's just true, that there's something that's not in accordance with the law. Finally, his vice governor was arrested. His vice governor is now back in the bank in which he participated in the privatisation process. According to the National Bank Act, the investigation is covered up, and everyone in this room knows that this investigation is based on a practical man. It's another issue raised in public. I didn't personally run it, it was initiated by our public and we didn't get two answers. It's not about expertise, it's not about Master's degree at Yale, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm just talking about the fact that public questions have been raised which question his credibility of this guy and there's no way I can vote for the man for whom these two questions are open, and he didn't give a convincing answer to that. He cannot pay for his bank's marketing ad, and by actually creating one public picture that there is no better institution in Serbia, without previously answering the questions that I, as a representative of the citizens who chose me, am obliged to morally put here for all of you in the Assembly. Until I get a clear answer to those questions, I certainly won't vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6662	The word of the people is the messenger of Nadica Momir, and the messenger of Alexander Jerkov shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6663	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my speech, you will only allow me one comment. I'm really not surprised when I hear Mr. Vladan Batic quoting "Kurira," but I'm really deeply surprised and disappointed to hear that Mr. Zarko Korać also quotes "Kurir". I ask you to stick to the facts and not quote "Kurir," who, among other things, has received a verdict where he should pay a million dinars for defamation and lies. If we all start quoting "Kurir" there's really nothing we can hear about this pay phone, so I don't think there's any need. Today, when a debate is being held on the candidate for governor of the NBS, I would like to remind you of the basic results of the past period, while Mr Jelasic was headed by her, the NBS. I took the data from the report on the implementation of the Strategy against Poverty. Since most MPs are here seeking to fight poverty, and also from the assessment of the feasibility study, many parliamentary groups are also pushing for European integration. So, after slightly larger inflation in 2005, the next 2006 NBS led a predominantly restrictive monetary policy, which focused on the implementation of the main objective, which is price stability. The measures taken by the NBS in the first half of 2006 to reduce the money fund affected the decline in inflation, so that the biggest economic critics of Mr Jelasic and the work of the NBS were surprised when inflation was only 6.6% at the end of 2006. In particular, it should not be stressed that controlling inflation, in addition to the importance of poverty, is also extremely significant from the aspect of macroeconomic stability and is particularly important for raising investment levels. In this regard, I particularly stress the fact that the largest inflow of foreign direct investment has been achieved in 2006 since the start of a 4.8 billion-euro transition period or 16.1% of gross social product. I also want to point out that in 2006, the NBS changed monetary policy, switching from foreign exchange rate to so-called. targeted inflation, introduced on 31 August 2006. This framework implies increasing use of the Central Bank’s reference interest rate as a basic instrument to promote the pre-set objective of annual inflation. Unlike the previous framework, which relied on the more active role of the National Bank in the foreign exchange market, the new monetary policy has suggested a greater fluctuation in the exchange rate and the successful withdrawal of the National Bank from foreign exchange market intervention, of course, except in cases of preventing the destabilision of irregular fluctuations. Therefore, targeted inflation was set at between 7 per cent and 9 per cent in 2006 and between 3 per cent and 5 per cent in 2007. The new framework for the implementation of monetary policy implies a high level of trust in the Central Bank's intentions and strengthening public expectations in order to achieve an inflation target. Furthermore, the NBS improved its capacity in 2006 to conduct responsible monetary policy and to control the banking sector. At the same time, the newly introduced policy is further strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to develop appropriate models of forecasting and monitoring the impact of monetary policy measures. Of course, thanks to Mr Jelasic and the NBS can be attributed to further growth in foreign exchange savings. In 2006, foreign savings reached 3.3 billion euros, which is 1.1 billion more than at the end of 2005. I think I should remind you, honourable MPs, and that in 2000, the foreign exchange was only 10m euros. Also, I point out further reform of the financial sector. During 2006, three state banks were privatised: Vojvodjanska, Pannonian and Niska. In this way, at the end of December 2006, state ownership in the banking sector was reduced to 14.9% of the total assets. Today, more than 80% of the total assets of the banking sector are owned by foreign banks, and the majority private ownership in the banking sector, as is known, is beneficial from the point of view of the efficiency of financial intermediation and market behaviour of banks, contributing to the stability and credibility of the banking system. Finally, an efficient financial system makes a significant contribution to better economic performance. In the previous period, a specific sector was also established within the NBS, whose supervision and control of insurance companies and voluntary pension funds is the responsibility. Of course, for better functioning of the financial sector and preventing higher risks of default, it is also necessary to strengthen citizens' awareness through better knowledge and understanding of financial services and the functioning of the financial market. This should contribute to strengthening market discipline in the financial market and reduce the risk of over-indebted citizens and bankruptcy. In this sense, the NBS organised a consumer protection centre for financial services users, which began working in 2007. Because of the world, I deeply believe that in the next period of the NBS, headed by Governor Radovan Jelasic, it will preserve macroeconomic and fiscal stability, improve the country's credit rating towards international credit institutions, increase Serbia's competitiveness and reputation among potential foreign direct investors. Everything that was done during Governor Radovan Jelasic's time, and what I was trying to do in the shortest lines to point out, gives me the right to really believe that these other NBS priorities will actually come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6664	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Mr Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6665	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not, like Mrs. Momirov, read any papers. It would've been nice if you could've said something yourself about Jelasic, but it's already a matter of the way of generalising in parliament. I don't know how I got the idea that I said anything about writing "Kurira." I don't know if "Kurir" wrote anything about it, but I was talking about facts, Mrs. Momirov. And the fact is that Radovan Jelasic showed the income management that he bought a 180-square villa, with a yard or a 15.5-ar salary, for 380,000 euros. And the income management, whose head is also your party colleague, has called it and thus has not paid the tax at least one million euros, and that is 50,000 euros. It has nothing to do with Curra. What does "Kurr" have to do with the arrest of Deputy Governor Dejan Simic? He's not my deputy, he's the vice governor of the NBS. The same man returns first to the post of advisers, then competes and is elected, past any law, to the director of payment or to relations with the abroad of the OTP bank, at the recommendation of Radovan Jelasic. What does that have to do with Curra? Radovan Jelasic, by publishing cash registers, damaged Serbia by over 500m euros for three years, 306m euros is damage in the past year, and so much money has been paid by those banks and those individuals who are its favorites, the tycoons here. What does that have to do with Curra? It's facts, facts, it's math. Radovan Jelasic is an HVB bank promoter, the same bank that used to launder money for your party's G17 needs and has a bunch of evidence about it. All were heard at UBPOK, and the owner of Hipo Hayworth Company - Zoran Mitrovica and confessed. Where's Bojan Začević now? Where is Bojan Zecevic, who arranged the transaction with Dinkic with Mr Zoran Mitrovica? Why isn't that being processed? Because Mladen Spa is a friend of Mladjan Dinkic. And it's all the same chain circuit, which has to do with facts, not "Kurra" or some other newspaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6666	Professor Žarko Koraæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6667	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, since I was mentioned by my colleague Momirov, let me answer her. I don't have anything to do with Curra, I don't buy it, I don't read it, I don't make statements for it, and anyone who reads it can see it clearly. It would be a little sadder story if I told you who from your party was once very close to those who made "Kurir," but that topic would open someday, but it wasn't me. I have nothing to do with Curra. If it makes you feel any better, this is what I was talking about I read about in "Today" and "Time" weekly:
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6668	National MP Ivan Andric according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Jerkov, and let the MP Zdravko Topalović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6669	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Members 104, and 226. First 104, because the lady or the lady from the G17 plus interest group insulted us, and 226 to explain what this is about. For God's sake, what's wrong with you? You're used to it, and what's next, Mr. Shormaz? A bit of racist outbursts, a little outcasts, a little threatening us while we're talking, what's your problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6670	Then your answer is to insult a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6671	Now, if I may continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6672	Here you go. But please use appropriate words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6673	Of course. Let me get on with it. So, the court of honour of the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia in 2004 and 2005 conducted an investigation into the texts of "Kurira". That's when the journalists at the Court of Honor of the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia said, and it exists on the Internet and wherever you look, gentlemen, that the daily newspaper "Kurir" was ideally created in the cabinet of Mladjan Dinkic and Miloljub Labus, that they are immoral relationships, which in professional terms means planting false texts, continued by officials G17 plus towards "Kurir" and during 2004, while you were in government with Vojislav Kostunica. As one of the indicators of your co-operation, the fact is that during the time in which Mladjan Dinkic served as finance minister, the daily newspaper "Kurir" did not pay taxes, gentlemen. Don't accuse us of something that's your idea of creation and that you can't control anymore. All the time the LDP, and earlier DOS representatives, file charges against you G17 Plus gentlemen, but you are calling for immunity, such as your leaders, Dinkic and Labus, and some of the MPs sitting there using immunity to justify their lies. In the end, just to finish, do not defend Mr Jelasic by reading the referendums, allowing him to come and answer all the questions asked here during yesterday and today. Once again, I call upon the President of the Assembly to exercise his right under Article 87. The Parliament's Rules of Procedure and invites the candidate for governor to come and address the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, how to present his programme, which will be conducted as governor, and to answer questions that Serbian citizens have sent him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6674	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nadica Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6675	I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, and I am asking Mr. President of the Assembly to give notice to the MP, Mr. Ivan Andric, for the insults made to the account of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, that it is an interested group. It is not only an insult to us MPs, it is an insult to all citizens who voted for G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6676	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov, has the word. Let the MP Zdravko Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6677	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, since I am not an economist, I am not going to talk about Mr Jelasic's professional achievements, although we have had from people who have really experienced the opportunity to hear that they are not the most brilliant. However, I will talk about why I, as a Serbian citizen, mind that such a man is in a place that is so important to Serbia. I'll talk about why I don't think he's a moral man with satisfactory moral qualities to perform this function. Of course, I will talk about numerous affairs in which Mr Jelasic was, in one way or another, involved. First of all, I mean the fairy affair, which we've already had a chance to hear about, when the governor bought a 180 square-square villa in 2004, and 15 acres of money on Santa for a price that's several times smaller, four times less than real. What's even more interesting is that it was the HVB Bank that gave the governor a guarantee to buy this villa and asked the question then, unfortunately of those who support it today at this function, above all I think of DS, whether it was Mr. Jelasic trying to tax evasion, or if, not on what basis and in what way he bought this villa at this price. I think it's a clear message sent to Serbian citizens, that a man who needs to take care of money from their tax at the same time tries to oust his tax and eskicipate payment. But it just shows how much the ruling coalition values the citizens of this country and what it actually thinks of them. Furthermore, there is, of course, an affair of 'coffer', which was somehow something that dominated, when it seemed that some control of the work of the government would actually be established, when it seemed that there was still a chance for democracy in this country and when really something could have changed, then of course it gave up in a very strange way, Mr Jelasic, as well as other actors in that affair, other than the Vice Governor who was arrested, escaped arrest, avoided being held accountable for what they did. Unfortunately, the Democratic Party, which then insisted that this be resolved and promised that the moment it came to power, it would question this affair, as well as the 'Villa' affair, it gave up and we only have to wonder what led to such a change in the behaviour of the Democratic Party. Of course, there is also the Petrovic affair, when Mr. Jelasic set up Mirko Petrovic, a completely unqualified man, as director of the Danube Insurance, who only a few months ago introduced temporary measures into the company because he estimated that man was not doing his job well. Of course, this is clearly clear to the coalition partners, which tells us that several times there was no quorum on the Finance Committee, when it was Mr Jelasic's choice. In fact, it shows us the change in the laws of the National Bank of Serbia, where the Board of Governors is being introduced, which will take away many of the rights that the governor now has, it is clear to them what kind of man they are dealing with. This, however, does not give DS the right to remain silent about this, to give up what it stands for. We remember Minister Petrovic, who said that the moment he came to power he would examine Governor Jelasic's assets, we remember Minister Markovic, who said the same thing. We're sorry that they gave up the answers they had previously insisted on, and of course all of them gave up, otherwise someone here would be answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6678	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Novakovic, then has the word Zdravko Topalovic, and let the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6679	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. The MP has the right to speak from this pay phone and I will fight for his right to the last drop of my blood, to speak nonsense, but he must speak the truth. It's desirable to tell the truth, because if he doesn't know something then he can ask, so since some questions are asked here, I'm going to answer them very briefly a few times, so let's get it over with. The sales tax is paid by the seller. By calling Jelasic a buyer, you are calling the seller he does not have here, whose legal obligation is to report a tax liability and pay for it. Whether it's done or not, I don't know, because Mr. Salesman here doesn't know or should he come here. It's a suitcase affair. What does one suitcase have to do with an apartment in Dedinj or Senjak, or wherever it is in Belgrade, have to do with the governor? We haven't been able to determine that yet, and nobody will ever be able to determine it. Third, the director of the Danube Security is appointed by the government. If you didn't know that, here's what you found out. Therefore, the National Bank eventually gives consent to the choice and that is about all that the formal party has to do with it. I don't know exactly, I don't think he's giving it, even if it's being set by the government, and that's the story. The first thing was, the taxpayer of every purchase contract, I think Mr. Batic knows that, is a salesman. The other thing I mentioned, and the third thing - is set up by the government. Do you want me to say it again, pays the seller, thank you, I guess you've learned something now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6680	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. It's a replica, Mr. Batic, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6681	Of course, if we were to start with that lawyer's resonation, this attitude could be accepted by counterpart Nikolic. But sir, what did he report, what value did Mr Jelasic report to the Commission for the prevention of conflicts of interest? Is Mr. Jelasic an ordinary citizen who bought a housewife, so he agreed to show the seller a lower price? No, he's the governor of the NB, who paid that price and lied to the state. And you and I both know, no matter what the nominal taxpayer is, the taxpayer is a salesman, we know best that the tax is always paid by the buyer. What does the seller care if he pays 55,000 euros or 55,000 euros? That's what we know best, I assume you've been doing hundreds of contracts, too. Let's not distort reality. So you have a conflict of interest, you have a state-wide delusion, you have tax evasion, in which he's an accomplice. Something you say - what does a suitcase have to do with Jelasic? Dejan Simic is his governess. Let me tell you what this has to do with what true democratic power is. May I have your attention, gentlemen of the DS? At the time of the Zoran Djindjic government, there were no attempts to abolize or amnest those accused of some abuses. Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic, indicted, Djindjic seeks resignation -- Vuk Obradovic is being replaced. Deputy Prime Minister Momcilo Perisic, indicted, has not been convicted -- Momcilo Perisic is being replaced. There is a suspicion that the energy minister has something to do with the energy lobby, the energy minister is leaving. Later, under public pressure, at the time of the government of Zorana Zivkovic, Minister Vesenov is leaving. It's a time of responsibility. We here point to your professional incompetence, incompetence of Mr Jelasic and the highly compromised conscience of Mr Jelasic. A man like that could never perform such a responsible function anywhere in the world. The governor of the National Bank in any serious state must be... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... A top financial expert and a man of the highest moral credibility. Mr. Jelasic is the least man for the defendant's bench, and probably for much worse than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6682	Thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic, to be prepared by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6683	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, I expected a more constructive debate from my colleagues from G17, not some praises that we had time to hear from little Joza's time. I expected this most from Mr. Albianic, who is a mathematician by profession, and also a colleague from his coalition, Mr. Vujadinovic, asked, normally, that we all discuss the figures yesterday. I must say that Mr. Vujadinovic mentioned yesterday some data from the macroeconomic data, which normally Mr. Albianic kept quiet, has already gone for some unreal praises. According to the law, NBS is independent and independent in the performance of its functions and does not seek or receive instructions from state authorities and other persons. That's how it should be under the law, but in the case of Mr Jelasic, that's not the case. He is neither independent nor independent, and receives direct orders from Mladjan Dinkic. Before I say anything about capital works, or the misdeeds of Jelasic, I must mention his vice governors. Ana Gligorijević graduated from the Faculty of Philology, and she completed a specialist course at the IMF Institute in Washington. Based on this course, Mrs Gligorijevic is conducting negotiations with the IMF, the World Trade Organisation, the World Bank Group. Indeed, on the basis of one course, you see the qualifications of the lady to negotiate with all these institutions. Dijana Dragutinovic, as a professor at the Faculty of Economics, particularly when G17 plus Mladjan Dinkic, moves to the NBS as a member of the national employment policy expert team and shows that unemployment in Serbia in 2006 reaches a record 26.6%. Mira Erić Jovic, the same vice governor, is said to be in her biography - participates in the so-called so-called ". Serbia's banking system reform, I would say, in a criminal attack on Serbia's banking system's financial system. These are the vice governors and accomplices of Radovan Jelasic. Let's talk about the numbers. The NBS final account for 2006 showed a loss of 30 billion, 92 million, 417 thousand 95.27 dinars. That means about 376m euros, which would be enough to complete that mentioned Horgos-Pozega highway and the entire Corridor 10. For this loss, Radovan Jelasic is normally responsible, because the governor represents and represents the bank, manages the bank and is responsible for implementing the decisions of the Monetary Committee and the Council. The annual work report praised the increase in the average net earnings to 21,000 dinars and that nominal growth is 24.4% compared to 2005, but real growth is much lower. Yesterday, data was released at the "Blica", a report favored by the ruling coalition, that the consumer basket is for the four-member family of 66,000 dinars. Then what's with the compliments? According to official statistics, the total number of unemployed in 2006 averaged 2.527,600 people, while the unemployment rate rose from 25.3% to 26.6%. The value of the dinars has only increased nominally compared to the euro and the dollar, but not realistically. Foreign exchange reserves increased by five billion 842m and $800 at the end of 2005 to $11 billion, 887m. But it should be said that this increase in foreign reserves has been fuelled by privatisation, which had one goal -- to fill the DOS leaders' private pockets, and the rest remains in the budget to service the IMF's green loans and foreign trusts. Total external debt, citizens of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, at the end of 2006, amounted to $19 billion,606 million. In the period of DOS rule since 2000-2006, foreign debt in dollars has grown at an average annual rate of 11%, to be clear, has grown from the euro. The participation of long-term external debt in Serbia's total debt at the end of 2006 was 92% and has grown since 2000. In 2006, according to this data you provided, Serbia's banking system consisted of 37 banks, of which 22 banks owned by foreign shareholders, 7 banks with private capital and 8 banks owned by the majority of the Republic of Serbia. You can see for yourself that the total financial occupation of foreign banks and banks of domestic tycoons is in effect. It has already been said here for this speaker that the unreal course of the euro corresponds only to the importers, not to the exporters. I will remind you of the words of counterpart Vujadinovic of the DS two months ago, when he mentioned that an unreal course, i.e. the low rate of the euro at that time, does not suit the exporters of the raspberries. We know how many raspberries have invested in the production of raspberries. After his discussion, the next day is a course even corrected, I guess for the sake of peace in that coalition. Otherwise, as for the marketing of the National Bank of Serbia, where you will be more marketing than if yesterday has been recorded in the last two years almost the lowest rate of the euro. Do you know, Serbian citizens, that your foreign exchange stakes in business banks, which are authorised by the National Bank of Serbia, are only secured at 3,000 euros. Even for that insurance deposit, an international loan has been taken. What if the bank stops working for economic reasons, and you know well that these banks do not have property in Serbia, but only deposited deposits with the NBS. There's more, Mrs. Borka Vukic mentioned yesterday that the signs of natural persons with abroad still do not work. You know all the problems our citizens face when relatives from abroad send them some money. This money is sent over these banks, the type of Sosite general or Raiffeisen, travels for five to six days, and the most common response on the bank's counter will be - yes, sir, but this is Raiffeisen or Sosite General Serbia. It has nothing to do with banks abroad. If Mr. Jelasic were a moral man, he would resign, this is how he will continue the agony of the financial system, but I hope only until the next elections, after which Serbian radicals will have the best candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6684	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6685	Mr Albianic, these are the members of the Rules of Procedure relating to conditions for the work of MPs and decision-making, which is widely interpreted by members 136, 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure, and this Rules of Procedure which are still in force. What's this about? I don't know how we could even get involved in considering this proposal unless we get the right answers from the interior minister and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the stenograms and those people who are going to do this type up and deliver as an official request that the explanation be made I would like to point out that it refers to something that has been present in our public for a long time, but the public has never received an answer to those questions. It serves me only as a cause what Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic said on December 6th 2004 in an interview called "The Greatest Expert Robbery in Serbia's History". So, with these attitudes and these issues so far, the SRS has nothing to do with it, but now we think it is necessary to answer these questions, because I don't think anyone knows Dinkic better than Mihajlovic. Here's the theme. Mr. Mihajlovic said in that interview that he had asked Professor Labus to do something and prevent the shame that the DOS would have experienced if Dinkic had fallen in and that we had so replaced the governor, with whom we agreed most normally to hand over duties, refers to Vlatkovic. Professor Labus said he didn't have that effect on Dinkic. Mijajlovic says their happiness was that Dinkic missed the building, heading to the National Bank building in King Alexander's Boulevard. Is this true? You know, if a man misses a building, a man can miss a row when he writes, he can miss his phone number when he knocks, but if he misses a street, the building, I need to be answered that he may not have missed the city? How can a man who misses a building run a state? Furthermore, a very significant answer would also be to the question, as Mihajlovic claims to have caused a great deal of embarrassment to the state of Serbia, the MD, Mladjan Dinkic, below, because he calculated, as young Robin Hood, that 12 billion were robbed in one place alone. I'll give you the whole interview so you can get along a little better. To tell me, Jocic, is that true? If not, some conferences should pull Mihajlovic, if true, his counterpart Dinkic should withdraw some of the consequences. (President: Mr. Krassic, time. Mr. Albianic, I'll call you a few more times, but when something is quoted, it doesn't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6686	It's just the Rules of Procedure when it's quoted that doesn't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6687	It's just the Rules of Procedure. (President: Yes. Here, Rules of Procedure, I quote. Mihajlovic says he should trust the governor who said he saw 4.5 billion in an island Cyprus account. What's the truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6688	The truth is they don't write names in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6689	I'm reading the Rules of Procedure. Next, according to the Rules of Procedure. According to Mihajlovic, Mr Dinkic, quote, remember Mr Albianic: "Laki is a little nervous". "Laki" is in this interpretation of Zoran Djindjic. But then says Mihajlovic -- but the prime minister won and placed his man as the director of the Post Office Savings. Dinkic responded immediately by hiring the National Bank to establish the National Savings Bank. And then, I believe what Mr. Mihajlovic said, but to be absolutely sure, both as a citizen, and as an MP, and as a defendant, since Dinkic sued me for everything I say from this pay phone, here we go, before we meet in court, although his lawsuit will be dismissed, is this correct, Mr. Jocic? Mihajlovic says so - I think there is behind all this the biggest expert robbery that has not been seen in Serbia's history, because there is a reasonable doubt that the money with Cyprus has been washed again and has ended up in accounts of who knows which of-shor companies and is now buying with them what is best in Serbia. About the other operations Dinkic performed, and now I am really asking for the report to be delivered to me on the transfer of the Treasury, Mr Jocic knows what it refers to, to deliver the record that the amount of money was destroyed, because this MD, while he was governor, could not be signed. Not Mihajlović Dusan, but Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6690	Mr. Krasic, we need to complete the presentation and quote of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6691	I appreciate your tolerance, and I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6692	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. The remaining LDP time is four minutes, G17 plus no more time, SPS five minutes. Nebojsa Rangelovic. No, I don't. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6693	Ladies and gentlemen, since the formation of the first DOS government in Serbia, to date the National Bank of Serbia has belonged to the political party G17 plus, such as some medieval Latin and the principle has been retained to this day and day. The National Bank has become one of the levers aimed at putting into a disastrous position of the Serbian economy, poverty of Serbian citizens and the lecture of our market, which is very important to foreign multinational companies and foreign banks. In this light, we really need to look at the role of the National Bank and its governors to date. As for Governor Jelasic himself, after malfeasances known to the public, which appeared in Deutsche Bank in 1998, when he was involved in an affair selling a cement store in the Czech Republic, he was asked to leave Deutsche Bank. Then, after that, he became an adviser to HVB Bank in early 2004 or even mid-2003 in Serbia, and by February 1st became a member of the HVB Bank Management Board. After that, Jelasic became governor at that time. Two months after the arrival at the head of the National Bank, the first affair appeared in public where Governor Jelasic concluded a contract with Alexander Shandorov, the former owner of a 180-square-metre villa, with 15.5 acres of salary in Dedinj, which he claims to have paid 380,000 euros, although the market price, according to experts, was about a million euros. Of course, although there were several bidders who would pay him that sum at the same time, Governor Jelasic never agreed to it once, he avoided the answer to this question. To make everything even more interesting, the contract itself says that the HVB bank gave a bank guarantee to buy this villa. To remind you, the HVB bank is the one he was in a very important and responsible place just a few months ago. The next affair occurred when Deputy Governor Dejan Simic was involved, who was arrested at the time he received a 100,000-euro bribe to lift the decision of the National Bank of Serbia to ban the operation of the Credit-Export Bank. As Jelasic said, decisions to liquidate and grant a bank's work permit were made by the National Bank of Serbia, so it's not about the individual. It is obvious that it is impossible that only Vice Governor Simic was involved in this, but it was quite clear that the entire operation had to include Radovan Jelasic. These are some of the affairs that have surfaced in public regarding him personally. When we talk about the monetary policy implemented by the National Bank and in general the policy that has affected what is happening in Serbia today, we must say that the destruction of the domestic banking sector is certainly one of the key and most difficult things in Serbia, which the DOS authorities then did, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic and later Radovan Jelasic. In 2000 and 2001, they laid the groundwork for the creation of a new policy to be led by the National Bank and led by it today, to destroy or fully marginalise domestic banks, thus creating a space for foreign banks, which are primarily interested in making profits in Serbia to their countries of origin and other countries in the environment and not in Serbia. We're this way in multiple losses. The ability of the domestic banking system to credit the Serbian economy is lost, primarily by production export systems and operations, and the practice has shown that foreign banks do not want to do so in Serbia and that their very bad credit policy towards economic operators is distilling the creation of new businesses and employment growth in the existing ones. I will also explain how the bad measures of the National Bank affect the poor lending of businesses by foreign banks. A catastrophic credit policy towards the local population, which involves huge interest on all types of loans, and which is particularly dangerous, because foreign banks have mostly stimulated consumer credits, and you will see that, since the National Assembly has ratified the CEFTA agreement, you will have a much greater breakthrough of foreign products on our market of unprotected customs duties since January 1st, and you will see that these measures will only have a bad impact on Serbia's economy. Without real economic justification, Serbia's citizens, who did not have enough protection policy by the state she was in charge of implementing the National Bank, were taking these loans, over-indebted and dangerously approached the country's serious debt line, which will be difficult to return. As regards the presence of foreign banks, in particular the chapter in the functioning of the National Bank and the governors themselves is the fact that the National Bank has done everything it can to prevent strategic partners from Russia and that the fact that the banking system has left the interests of banks in the West. For just five million dollars, as far as the founding deposit was at the moment, they received the whole Serbian market. Unlike the Belgrade Bank, which we heard was at one point the seventh in Europe, which was unlawfully shut down in Serbia, such banks came to Serbia, which are, as the "Economist" writes, such power that there are none from Serbia on the list of the 50 largest banks in Central and Central Europe. They are so powerful and influential those banks that came here to take over Serbia's market and help Serbia develop and grow. Governor Jelasic recently said in an interview that Serbia has never seen a better economic situation. Sometimes I wonder if I live with the governor in the same country. He also explains in part the increase in foreign reserves. Here we come up with a very interesting topic, because the structure of the foreign reserve, which is praised by the National Bank, is very problematic. In serious countries, which are seriously concerned with their economy and who want to achieve economic growth, foreign reserves are growing by increasing their exports, creating an external trade surplus, in such a way, in a serious way, strengthening foreign reserves. In our country, unfortunately, the foreign reserve structure is largely based on the foreign exchange remittances sent by our citizens working abroad, the money they send to their families in Serbia, and the mandatory reserve of banks that is increasing from time to time. The National Bank is doing this in order to increase the interest on loans due to an increase in credit demand. However, it should be borne in mind that by increasing the mandatory reserve by the National Bank, the National Bank reduces the significant credit support of foreign banks in the economy. In this way there has been an increase in interest rates, although it is quite clear that for most users loans are now too expensive. Of course, when we talk about this, it is clear that there is no speech about helping Serbia in this way. Too much public spending, which we have talked about more than once in the SRS, is also a direct consequence of the catastrophic fiscal policy led by the government by the establishment of phantom agencies for all and all things, when there are ministries that are responsible for this, unintended spending of money, lack of control. We just recently elected members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, and then we warned, because we chose members who were elected on the political line, among which one member is, of course, from the G17 Plus, that we will certainly get an institution that will certainly not seriously control this spending. The measures implemented by the National Bank will only further make it more difficult to position economic operators, and what colleagues have said, that in this way we are only helping the import lobby, it is absolutely true, because exporters are not at all stimulated in this way. The question arises - where will the economy of this country go? Unfortunately, another detail that we will have opportunities to talk more about in the future is employment policy in the National Bank of Serbia. A special requirement put forward in front of all those who want to hire at the National Bank of Serbia is neither knowledge nor expertise, but political membership, to be a political party G17 plus and respect for Mladjan Dinkic. The illegal shifts of all people in the National Bank that have been going on since 2001, so that the same directorial and chief of staff can take over, were similar to the worst party cleanups. Even ordinary officials were rarely fired, to open up the space for the employment of Mladjan Dinkic's staff. However, it is now happening that illegally dismissed workers are getting court disputes against the National Bank, which is happening today, can be checked in courts, where the damages paid to them are moving between 50,000 and 100,000 euros. These aren't insignificant means at all. The question arises - who is responsible for the illegal treatment of these people and who will compensate the people of Serbia for the damage that has been caused in this way. The answer is that the governors of the National Bank are certainly responsible for this, both Dinkic and Jelasic, and that this kind of criminal behavior and stimulates SRS MPs to really fight here so that a man like this doesn't choose as governor of the National Bank. We will both oppose crime and corruption that rule this country, because it is our obligation for the citizens of Serbia, because we must fight to make all citizens live better, and that is the only way to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6694	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6695	Mr. Albianic, since we know the same target, same distance, the Rules of Procedure is there, I'll read from it. I don't think there's a more competent person in this country than Mr. Jocic, and I think what Mr. Jocic needs in half an hour to tell us is very important for this agenda point. In order not to be surprised at what this is all about, it is about one letter that all MPs have received. It begins with: "Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament... "The letter of documentation was sent to a consortium of shareholders of MB bank Nis, Grade Nikolic Nis, I don't know the man. He's asking me to "... In the framework of your responsibilities take action, introduce into the legal order of Governor Jelasic, the Deposits Agency and all those who support them, and who partly take up a number of seats next to you in the Assembly (excuse me, please, someone has to answer me who these are) and help us to preserve our private property, while respecting and enforce the laws and decisions of the highest authorities in this country." Since this is long, with a lot of evidence, I have no intention of interpreting all this, but it is essentially that Mr. Jelasic, as governor, has made some decisions that have resulted in the liquidation of the bank, that the courts have said theirs, abolished those decisions, returned them to the retrial, ordered what needs to be done, the governor did not act by these decisions, it does not surprise me at all, so was Mladjan Dinkic, you remember, no decision was respected. He said -- what court, Milosevic's court returns to me, so in court are the biggest criminals, etc. Those are his words. I'm not going into that part, so let the court decide how he thinks it's best to do it in accordance with the law. However, I am sure that this part, if correct, and I ask that Minister Jocic inform us urgently whether that is true, this information is fragrant. He says, "The book value of the bank's assets was 5.1 billion dinars. By deliberately underestimating the value of the bank's assets, it was set at 3.9 billion. According to the Supreme Court's decision, if these criteria apply, it's about six billion." Data is some kind of obligation structure, and it is evident that no condition for the liquidation of the bank has been met. But here's what these people say: "The capital robbery of MB bank is in reward for the liquidator in the amount of... "Now it was given in hundreds of millions of dinars, but he translated it... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... How is it always a time when I have to say the most important thing? So the liquidator got 4.5m euros. The cost of the procedure was 2m euros. I understand that there's a liquidation procedure, that there's some kind of dispute, I can understand a lot of things, but is it possible that such costs are such costs? Is it possible the bank wasn't destroyed because of these costs? It's a private bank. Here, that concerns Mr. Jelasic directly. I don't know if this is true or not, but I ask Mr. Jocic to send me urgently, both to you, to know whether these data are correct or not, because it concludes on the basis of this, the relationship of the proposed candidate with respect for constitutionality, legality, whether there is some malignancy in the way he applies the law. Because they claim that all the problems could have been solved by making a deal with a Russian firm that would have taken over. But this Jelasic hates money owners. He loves Germans, French, English, Americans, but if they own a pair of Russians, he hates them. Russia is now defending us, as I think it is, is it possible that our governor is disrupting national policy through his day-to-day activities? How am I supposed to vote for a man like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6696	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maras has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6697	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during yesterday and today, LDP MPs have on several occasions presented reasons why they will not support this proposal, i.e. to vote for Mr. Radovan Jelasic to be the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I, Mr. Krasic, am a little surprised, you've been a much longer MP than I am, now I'm the first time, but it just amazes me how much faith you have in the chairman, that you'll get an answer to some of the questions you asked during yesterday and today. You were present, as were the other MPs, ignoring the chairman, Mr Albianic, and others who chaired this assembly, or President Dulic, to answer the request, to ask LDP MPs and other MPs to appear in the assembly benches and to answer some of the questions asked. It is true that there is no formal obligation, but I really think it would be necessary, primarily because of the citizens, that citizens would not get a picture that MPs here want to arm a candidate for governor, no matter who he is or just because Radovan Jelasic is. The problem is that there are at least three basic reasons why it cannot be voted for Radovan Jelasic. First one's political. We talked about it a lot yesterday. It is that Radovan Jelasic became the subject of one trade, one contract. The moment we learned from the media that arrangements were reached for boards of directors in public enterprises, this proposal also came to the Assembly Committee on Finance. The board passed, the ruling majority supported it, because there are more in the Committee, and it arrived here in front of the Assembly. Once again, I'm undermining that we don't mind one of the parties proposing any candidate for governor. But, Mr. Albian, please don't talk behind my back, you're distracting me. I warned you, Mr. Albian, you're distracting me, I'm not being disturbed by anyone else. So, a political contract, a trade, we don't think something like that deserves a governor's seat, which should be independent. Even DS ministers, the DS Deputy Prime Minister, have repeatedly said that Mr Jelasic is dependent on Mladjan Dinkic, President G17 and on several occasions expressed very poorly on his work, or monetary policy, on the losses we heard from several lawmakers yesterday, which were estimated at around 450m euros. Another of the important reasons why we cannot vote for Mr Jelasic is this expertise. I mentioned earlier that, despite what some MPs have read here, who have praised the hard course of dinars, a stable course of dinars, all experts agree that it only suits one lobby, one mafia, and that's the import mafia. I must mention, too, that Mr. Miskovic is at the helm of this mob. We assume he's the one who's the chief advocate for Radovan Jelasic being the governor of the NBS. The third reason is these affairs we're hearing a lot about. So it's true that the sales contracts say that it's the seller who's obliged to pay the tax, that at the time the contract was concluded, but it's come to us, and it's usually the right for anyone who's trafficked anything, or any real estate, to know that the buyer's always had a contract and that the customer's interest is to show a lower tax. Of course, the tax administration works in accordance with the law and the tax administration cuts the tax on market value, except in one case, and that case was when Radovan Jelasic bought the villa and showed that he paid 380,000 euros and paid much more. So the law doesn't apply to everything equally. If it doesn't apply to the governor, in which case, the governor, we don't think that person can be governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6698	The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6699	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing the selection of candidates for governor of the NBS, on a proposal from the Finance Committee. Not getting into a personal problem, I think the Assembly was brought before the final act. It might be better if the parliamentary groups tried to find rights and professional solutions, so the Assembly here discusses candidates and arguments to choose the best ones. I'm sure there are two to three excellent economists in this room, and I mean Mrs. Jorganko Tabakovic, I mean Borka Vukic, I mean more economists, but it's not just a place where people can be discussed. But what is it, it's here. It's probably a political party settlement, and it's probably agreed that this is how the only candidate is chosen. However, we must refer to the work of the NBS, as key leverages in the conduct of the country's monetary policy and see what our results are. A lot has been said in today's and last night's debate. According to the Bank's work so far, we see that it acts automatically as an institution, which, including the Assembly, reports on its work, and we have reports from audit institutions that the NBS did so. Actually, we don't have enough information to give the right picture of things in the NBS. Although as a country we are going through a very difficult transition period, where monetary policy can play a rather significant role in overcoming the problem, unfortunately, monetary policy is too restrictive and makes it difficult anyway to maintain an unsustainable situation, especially in the economy, but I would also say at the level of population standards. So far, we've seen the cost of maintaining the dinar course. We also saw how much our pay deficit is, precisely because of the unrealistic rate of dinars relative to the euro and because of the motive of the import lobby to garner huge money by importing something that is cheaper than our economy can produce and offer, and of course that in a very difficult or even more difficult position companies that are export-oriented and which cannot because of this kind of competition come to terms. Of course, the perspective of these, I would say at this moment of healthy export-oriented companies is such that they will have to close the doors someday, because they cannot withstand competition in this relationship with the conduct of a dinar course policy. Of course the price of maintaining a course like this, we heard, is not small and costs taxpayers. Also, I want to ask a question about monetary policy. Does anyone remember that since 2000, at least one incentive measure has been put in place for the economy? The answer is that it is not and that the economy as it is after the embargo, after many events, simply is not able to withstand this economic struggle compared to the competition that, in this way, I would say, is unfairly imposed. Also, I think that this policy of uncritical opening up the banks' markets under very cheap conditions and the decree of destroying four large banks has brought immeasurable, or enormous damage. I also wonder, when all of this happened, why not go to the opening of a strong domestic development bank, through which could be the investment plan or the resources of the National Investment Plan to direct, through which savings could be directed, through which the signs of our citizens working abroad could come and the funds that come from the sale of social firms, which, as a strong bank, could make its services and in terms of interest, but also in terms of many other things are at least 30% cheaper and make these foreign banks behave, which would be in favour of both states and citizens. I am sure that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact the economy and the people of Serbia, would have the most interest. Not to go far, let us take an example of Slovenians, who have made such a bank and who have a very good developmental component. If the government is responsible for creating a favourable environment for the functioning of the economy, nothing less is responsible bank as a key part of a single continent, it is thought of the NBS, because economic policy without good monetary policy has no perspective. I think there's such non-synchronization here, that it's causing huge damage to the entire economic environment. (President: Mr. Nikolic, you've exceeded your time. One more sentence. Also, I'm asking if the bank governor's move was good, to issue savings and government records on which the banks that are being paid interest rates of 14-15%, and sometimes more percentages, and we're seeking inflation that needs to be single-digit?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6700	National MP Jorvanka Tabaković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6701	I have to take advantage of that business opportunity to, uh, bond with the art. On 100th to 104th, I give the right to Mr Nikolic and to say that the NBS, headed by Governor Jelasic, since the date on which the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is 14 February, has not delivered any documents, and otherwise, by law, is obliged to submit a financial plan for last year, a monetary policy and a report on work, not as a written and descriptive document, but as a final account with an auditor's report. At the moment when we received on the Finance Committee, by the ruling coalition, these famous eight votes, which were not in June, to formalise their proposal, and through the committee responsible, on behalf of the Committee, using the commercial law set out in Article 178(5), I requested these reports and gave a seven-day deadline to be delivered to us. What happened? The next day in the SRS parliamentary group, a report on the work, that is, the 2006 final account, with an auditor's report, dated June 28th. So, the governor is not supposed to, but he has a seductive seal that he handed over to this building, now it's on the burden of congregation services, i.e. illustrating relations in the coalition, that report has not been delivered to the board, nor to the MPs, and the accompanying letter with that report is September 18th. I get it on September 25th, and it's in a very interesting font, which is easily read, without time to analyze, but two things I can tell you right now. The house that audited the final account is called KPNG. That house on the first page accepted a loss of 30 billion dinars for not expensive monetary policy and allegedly withdrawing extra money from circulation, because why we sell strategic enterprises, and then we don't know what to do with the money. In the name of what are we doing? How'd you get that extra money in circulation? An expensive monetary policy is designed to hold an inflation of between 7% and 9%, according to those who read the referendums written by Jelasic, but page 24 says they have issued cash registers at a rate of 14% to 20%. People, Serbian citizens, is it normal to say that inflation will be 8%, and as a state, you broadcast through the National Bank of Papers that you guarantee that within two weeks or after the maturity, you will pay the bearer interest from 14% to 20%. It's not monetary policy, it's called abuse of position. On account of this one who's been doing a review just to add a detail. This house is, you mentioned from Nis, colleague Krasic, bank. This house was also doing an audit, i.e. following the takeover of one of the private banks, directed by Jelasic and his friends, and that moment of takeover and action when Findomestik banka closed a new bank from Bijeljina, when, with friendly persuasion of Mr Pitic and Vlahovic, one of the owners from Serbia was advised that it is better to give up the recapitalisation and sell this bank at a price lower than 1.6m euros, which is why the dispute is now being conducted by small shareholders. At the same time, the Findomestik Bank was allowed to surrender at such a lower price or be closed. Some who did not agree, some Russian groups, e.g. at the Raj Bank, the bank where I worked in my own time and which was a great bank, didn't agree to such blackmails, the result is that this bank doesn't exist today. Missile policy and greed policy on the burden of the National Bank and governors.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6702	Mr. Krassic, what's past about the replica now. I transferred you here, at the request of the parliamentary group, to the end. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6703	Mr. Albianic, I really couldn't understand your behavior. You know, I kind of said that I don't mind you calling someone who needs to talk, and after that, I'll answer, and you kept avoiding giving me a word by the Rules of Procedure and by those provisions that you already know by heart. (President: 136, 225, 226) That's right. Just for some continuity, where Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic was interrupted by you. All of this should be added that Mladjan Dinkic assured us there was a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. He persuaded us, and the short-term overcoming of the budget was solved by broadcasting these papers, which could only be bought by the chosen ones, and I can't get an answer to that for two years. I've been waiting two years for the answer to that and to remind you, the answer to the question - where foreign exchange reserves are held. I haven't started talking about your candidate yet, because I want to discuss some questions about the National Savings Bank, very significantly, but I'll discuss it later, too. For now, I'm interested in having someone on behalf of this government, on behalf of this country, if I need Sutanovac and Djelic, make me a consulate, formally and legally refer to Kostunica, but I need you to answer some questions. First, Mladjan Dinkic, in a statement on August 25th 2003, accused Minister Dusan Mihajlovic of keeping the document on the malversion of Kolesar and Janjusevic in the drawer. It's impossible, as he said, that someone 32 years old has so much wealth. In fact, Kolesar was a cement dealer, and that was what Lutra's company was doing. Jocic has to answer if this is true. Furthermore, the Kolesar was on the board of directors after the privatisation of the Beician cement factory. The sale of Cementara Novi Popovac was staged by the tender, argues Dinkic. He came in 2004, why didn't he solve it? How far did it get in solving this problem? Then he accuses DS, there's no progress while you're in power, while you're stopping this. Not to read where he was sworn to die before, who to whom to come to the funeral, that with Djelic and Zivkovic he would not want to be in the government. Here you have what he says - Ilich is not a place in the government. Think of Velya Ilic. What is it that brought you together? These are some questions that we need to get answers before we go, so let's say -- let's see who this candidate is, how much we can trust someone on the word. See what's going on at Dinkic's. We were witnessing a few days ago when it was the CEFTO Confirmation Act, three minutes after the pay phone here, he said it was a very good deal. As soon as we started to apply it 30% is increased exports, imports etc. We're saying, man, it's on the agenda now, how could you apply it? When he saw he had mental problems, he sat down for three days. Can people like that run the country? Another question, did this government take ministers to the VMA for a doctoral examination during the assembly? If she was leading, we should at least get a general report.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6704	Mr. Krassic, please, let's really take care of it and time's over. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, then the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning on one radio, whose name I won't mention, because of anti-Serbian and subversive activity, but here we heard on the road from Kragujevac to here Professor Poscurica and I, information has been released that today he started working in Serbia on the "Virtual Serbia" site. Now they suggest everything and say what you can become today in Serbia through a virtual site. You can be a robot, a prophet, Harry Potter, and you can be governor, prime minister, imaginary minister, and, as someone mentioned this morning that we're choosing a virtual governor, it's not something that's the subject of that site or involving those who in this way want to enter some of the world's "flows", but it's a man, alive, of blood and flesh, who, for your information, has been the MPs repeatedly coming into the building of the National Assembly. So if you think he doesn't know where this building is on King Milan Street, the Serbian rulers 14 know very well, because the first time he came into this new assembly as governor, he was asked by these security guards at the entrance, that day I accidentally entered the building at the same time -- here you go, where you're going, and I say -- let him go, that's this thief from G17 plus, the governor, let him go, he probably has an appointment with someone. (President: Ms. Jovanovic, please take care of how you express yourself after the speaker. That's how you keep your dignity. I'm taking care of the event, Mr. Albianic. He didn't say he had an appointment with you. He said he had an appointment in the National Assembly building. But it wasn't this, I remember very well, on July 28th, when this anti-dated report arrived, falsified and haired, which was spoken of by my colleague Tabakovic, but at the same time as the spear was broken and Mrs Grubjesic said - I don't know what's happening on the DS-DSS route, which is the problem, why not choose Jelasic as governor. It's a big problem, and we'll see if you can solve it in 15 hours, when you'll probably schedule a voting term, because also yesterday, when we go to the National Assembly meeting, I meet two, as you would say, senior DS officials from Kragujevac, one is a member of the presidency and I'm asking -- how did you propose this criminal to be governor, how did you even hold you from G17. Don't remind me again, because that's how I really asked them, and they didn't resist, these "yellow" Kragujevac didn't say - not a criminal, not a thief, he says - we have to do something. Same case with the gentleman... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, you are the vice president of the National Assembly, you need to show others how you speak from a pay phone. )......................................................................................................... Just shut up and perform your vice-presidential role in the way Mr. Dulic has entrusted you with it. Don't defend yourself, Mr. Albianic, Jelasic, because now I'm going to go on the fairy affair, and I guess you're the man who, as you said yourself, bought a flat with high and expensive residential bank loans, and you see the price is a real small matter of 380 thousand, a falsely displayed contract for a villa worth at least four times more. It's not me, Mr. Albianic. It's you, which you keep wanting to chair for two days, when you choose to be governor and defend yourself, and you claim to be an honest man, and one criminal, who only on one deal for a villa is tax evasion and doesn't respond until today, after two years, to questions from where he's got 380 thousand, so it's not a small thing, and I'm not talking about 1.5 million or what that villa is worth. Therefore, Mr. Albianic, you better run away with your head regardless of such a society, from such a criminal society, such a criminal organization, see how they've all got a nice connection and what you have to look for in that triangle, if you say you're an honest man, in that criminal triangle Dinkic-Jelasic-Djelic. It is all the same gang, the same organization, which manipulates the cash registers, which broadcasts securities of value in a way that is illegal, which behaves by shutting down all those who did not give commission and Dinkic, and Jelasic, and Djelic, whether they are banks or insurance companies, do not allow healthy Russian capital, which is profiled under Putin's authority, to enter this country. You've got the Kulska Banka case. Now all I'm talking to you about is all these thesiss that reflect the criminal behavior of the man you want to choose as governor, and let's start with monetary policy, which is what my colleague Vujadinovic from DS talked about yesterday. You're all right, pal. You're about to say we have to do it, but what do we do and what does it do? Is that right? The only one who signed up to talk. Mr. Aligrudic has come out now, you will be entitled to a replica, in support of what you said about this disaster. They asked him the other day -- how is it possible for you, Mr. Aligrudic, to vote for such a man, who is up to his head involved in all these criminal affairs. Kostunica himself asked two years ago to consider everything, to explain where he got 380, not to talk about a quadruple amount. Aligrudic says he would stay in power, and you all said you gathered on May 15th -- what I have to do with it, both with the suitcase affair and with his fairy affair. It would be the same if you asked me what Slobodan Milosevic was doing in his time, and he was the president of the state. It's not the same. It's not the same, because you directly, Mr. Aligrudić, who may have been in front or has sat in the bench so far, and all of you from DS and DSS, and you from G17, who had those references and you read them up to a moment ago by the system of competition for Tito-Revolution-Peace, says Vjerica, the first part, the second part, the third part, the fourth, you defend the man, and you, Mrs. Grubjesic, as an economist, know that very well, which has done enormous damage to our country and our economy. If you ask any businessman from Kragujevac, where the collapse of the economy, and all of Serbia, how he came up with the idea from the position of the governor of the NBS to increase mandatory economic reserves from 40 per cent to 45 per cent, how it is possible to allow 'inside banks' to operate in Serbia under much more favourable conditions on this market, which, on huge interest, sell money to the population. Well, then we're not surprised why we're in charge of 11 and a few billion just internal debt. I don't want to talk about the outside. Then you have to come up with exact data and facts. None of this is in mind, which is what Tabakovic was talking about, and you know it very well, or what she says in stages and as a corpus dellict delivers to her colleague Krasic. So, all this is about his function, his work from the governor's post, and that you're protecting him. You know, these floscules, we have a stable dinar, inflation will be within eight or nine percent, it doesn't drink water, because the import lobby is protected precisely by Mladjan Dinkic, Djelic, Jelasic, because of such a fined policy of the dinar course, and then ask the raspberries, ask everyone else, fruit farmers, ask people who do cattle production. On this yesterday, counterpart Vujadinovic spoke of why such a disastrous policy led by the NBS through such an artificial course of dinar. You can't talk about the successes of a man or a party who is in power, or your party president, when economic parameters are such as to show that the situation is getting worse. Find me a businessman, speak a colleague from Vranj, speak to you in the name of those of Kragujevec, who are not businessmen and messengers, and who cannot say, "Where is this shift made?" One piece of information to show me, that's not there. So in a country where today every child who is born is in debt with 380 euros, because it's so long per capita, you can't boast of great successes. There is success, but only for you and your surroundings. I don't speak to you personally or individually, as well as to you fellow Albianic, who I don't know for what reason and what your motive is to protect such criminals. Answer me as a man, MP, vice president of the Assembly, when we have not found such information that you take so many commissions and that you are not personally involved, but what is your reason and which is the motive to propose to the National Assembly and to call, as you did, the end of your referendum, the fourth or fifth part of Tito-Revolution-Peace, to vote for Jelasic. Therefore, we live in Serbia today, where the data is true, but not as you represent them, and it is inexorable that the people are getting harder to live, that the artificial course of the dinar, that inflation is not at all like that, because if you started to go to the market this morning, to any market, if you went to buy children clothes, shoes, if you started paying all the accumulated bills, you see that we're over-indebted nation, that there's no economic shift, but it's worse and worse and you see that the only way, you don't see it, but I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia, to get rid of it by coming to the SRS. The only real truth that Mrs Tabakovic has said today is that with financial oligarchs, the power of power in power, of these people who are in the criminal structures of government, money is the biggest weapon, but it is also a murder weapon in people who are fair and moral and who know how to channel it. Don't think, we've adopted the Constitution and chosen, and we've armed the governors for so many years, and nothing will change. It will change over a few months, when the courts have to do all these things, and when Mr Nikolic, as president elected from Serbia at the time, will start to examine all these tycoons' business. And to start the judiciary and administration, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, to fight organised crime, to do his job, because they have all that data today, and we'll be better off, and we'll get to Serbia. And then you ask yourself what your unworthy role was, and your Mr. Albianic, and your colleague Grubjesic, and all of you who will or will not vote for the real personality of the criminal at the place of Governor Radovan Jelasic today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6706	Thank you. I only owe one sentence, so I never took part in a referendum called 'Tito, Revolution, Peace', or any similar referendum, that's not in line with my family tradition. National MP Dragan Vujadinovic, in order to have the continuity of the discussion, then Mr Srdjan Sajn, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6707	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 225. First of all, the Rules of Procedure. counterpart Tabakovic said that KPNG's auditory house had some kind of cheerleading audit. I would say, under Article 225, that the revision generally only reports whether they are a balance sheet or a balance sheet of success, or a balance of cash and a balance of changes in accordance with international financial standards. It does not enter the business policy assessment and whether it is spent less or more, but only whether it is in accounting terms in line with international standards. In this sense, the KPNG is the leading English European house audited and I don't think it would allow its subsidiary in Belgrade to audit and deviate from the IFRS, from international standards. The second question, what these positions essentially contain, and what they contain is essentially debated by problems at the National Assembly and would be fortunate and will always be fortunate to have a business report as a condition for the choice or replacement of a single official. As far as I'm concerned, the left-hand side should say that something is gray, not all white, but also co-worker Natasha and the right-hand side could sometimes, if something is gray, not always say it's black, and that hasn't happened yet. I'm calling you, the German credit line was, given the credit rating and given the interest rate, the most favourable thing that could happen, and you all said, it's a disaster. So let's turn the sheet and say no and maybe it's not white, but it's gray. No, you're all black. Then don't expect the left side to be something gray, but all white, that's where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6708	Thank you. Mr. Vujadinović, I'm only asking you to take care of what's left, what's right. People's MP Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6709	Ladies and gentlemen, if this assembly is about character traits, then I'd like to say a few words in Roma and ask the service to translate it. ''Manga's most money protects us to Roma, protects us to the vareka acarelm to the gypsies. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6710	Mr. Shane, please translate, as you should have announced earlier. Please tell me what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6711	I'll translate that then. I'm just asking you to turn off my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6712	I'll be tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6713	I am not ashamed of being a Roma, nor ashamed that some poets, like Miroslav Antic, speak of gypsies, of the members of the national minority I belong to in the way they speak. But I am ashamed to be in the parliamentary benches along with some people, who, if I understood them correctly, speak of members or part of Serbian citizens. Before I went out to say this at the assembly pay phone, I didn't happen to wait a day and a half. I have consulted with my co-workers and all agree that the Roma Party can continue to work in this House if representatives of the DSS are made very clear and concretely known to be limited to any possible possibility that Mr Jaksic's statement should be interpreted in such a way and be associated with the character characteristics of the Roma national minority, or those who belong to them, mentioned as gypsies. And if the DSS clearly distances itself from that, then it will be a sign to us that an individual in this congregation has been maliciously or accidentally wrong in his own presentation, he will say something he didn't mean to say, as he tried to interpret it today. Every other thing for us will be a very clear signal that we cannot continue to work in this assembly anymore, because I think we have tried, I am speaking now as far as the Roma Party and I are concerned about this speaker, that we are really doing one constructive contribution these nine months, that we are really building tolerance relations and that we are really showing the right picture of Serbia, and the right picture of Serbia is that the Serbian people, that Serbia has no negative relationship with the Roma national community, and neither to the gypsies, as someone traditionally calls the members of this national community. In this direction, I really expect that this will happen and that this assembly, relieved of such things, possibly tomorrow in the press commenting that it was in this way, that it was in that way, that the Assembly can work normally and that this assembly thus clearly shows both Serbia and others that we represent the real interest of the Serbian and Serbian people here. Only half a minute, if the chairman lets me. Today I return from Novi Sad, from a town where we have managed to sit at one table and representatives of the city authorities, and representatives of the province authorities, and to agree in a certain way how to resolve the situation of three hundred Roma, who live in a settlement where the obstacles to Novi Sad are forbidden and to resolve the common issue in the next seven-eight days, but they all showed the will to do so. These are representatives of different political parties, but they were unanimous in the need to help the Roma. I think this congregation has to demonstrate and show the same thing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6714	National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6715	I've just come forward as president of the DSS-NS Parliamentary Group to give a brief answer to Mr. Shane's question. He's very short and simple. Of course, when it comes to the public appearance of MP Marko Jaksic, whom you referred to in your earlier appearance. Of course, individual expressions, words and the way he addressed his fellow MPs or fellow MPs are not expressions that the DSS can accept, and we certainly have nothing to do with it. When it comes to responsibility for the issue in this House, I am the advocate who argues that every responsibility must be individualised, this was also helped by the President of the Assembly, who acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and gave a warning to Mr Jaksic. As for, therefore, continuing to act, reflecting order in this home or our efforts to establish normal communication, one decent dialogue, I think that in that sense the president and each chairman would have to have the same arches towards everyone, taking into account not only someone who directly participates in some verbal incident. No matter what, aside from all that, I am deeply convinced that some of the things that have been heard like this have turned out, neither did Mr. Jaksic himself. It is very important that rules are applied to all by the same archaic, so that consideration is taken of those who are causing the incident, who are doing this in a way that are trying to provoke MPs, assuming, knowing or considering that they may react in a way that may not be appropriate, in order to create the case. Of course, there's no case here. It is an extremely individual thing in relation to, I repeat again, to what was said by Mark Jaksic. You have all my beliefs that there's no sign of DSS attitudes when it comes to certain expressions, I know which ones you mean, which ones are used there. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6716	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, regarding Articles 136, 225 and 226. I'm sorry, Mr. Krassic, and thank you for letting the predecessors take these views.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6717	Mr. Albianic, I've been a folk MP for a long time, and I have an obligation to take care of what I say because it takes me a long time. For me politics isn't an adventure, you're here today, I don't know each other's party tomorrow. You have them, he was at the SPO, so at the DSS, wherever the money was, he was there. Not you, Nikola. This banana. Now, since I have an objective view of the world, it's my approach, now that it's objective from the point of view of anyone watching, that's his problem. I must point out one situation where the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has already found itself and I must say that Mladjan Dinkic was right. Here, let me remind you. In that TV duel when he and Djelic dirty each other like that, yes, Dinkic was in one thing right. He says he submitted as governor of the NB report to the National Assembly, and that, he said, Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic banned the distribution of the report from lawmakers. She banned the distribution of this material to the MPs. We have something like this now. Now the governor's copying something again, sending MPs, probably that audit. But I have to tell you, no matter what that paper contains, I didn't get a chance to see it, but I heard it from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. You attacked me because of the attitudes in that paper, the emissions of the paper, and how it's a virtual rule of surplus and how he's been pulling money out of the budget, giving some money, and when it's done with the Karics, then there's really a surplus. But he hasn't been since the beginning of the year, and we've been listening to this story about the surplus ever since. You know, don't make us naive. We know some things about how to do things, who to do things, and why to do things. I'll keep going. On Wednesday 17 September 2003, Dinkic deposited the NBJ funds without approval, or the authorities have been discrediting Dinkic's work as governor. This is preconvincing for one topic I want to open, and it concerns the National Savings Bank. (President: Time.) Here, just one sentence. I have to say why I'm doing this because of the basic honesty. It is about Jelasic. But since you know that a lot of things I find out and get, I found out what the script is for this agenda point in advance. You in power don't know that. It says the National Savings Point attacks. Position G17 Plus, you are listening to the order of Mladjan Dinkic - we are not lawyers of the National Savings Bank, but we are lawyers of the party. That's what he wrote that these are his stories here. The second indent, you must not fall into a trap to prove our innocence in the whole story, but those who attack us should prove our possible guilt. The third point, he says, remember that the story of the savings is very complicated and complex, incomprehensible to an ordinary man, but therefore an ordinary man understands very well the words of thieving, theft, robbery. Next, avoid... (President: Mr. Krassic, time. Mr. Albianic, you have no reason to warn me on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6718	You don't know it's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6719	Not you, Mr. Albianic, but the DS guys, but they need a little trouble, to figure out what's going on. One more sentence, since three more points are left. It's a warrant, you know it well, so it bothers you that I'm reading. He says, avoid defending yourself, but attack, and ask the talker to prove the documents and concrete allegations, which law, which member. That's why I'm wearing all this stuff. Next, if they have any evidence, let them bring them out, show them, hand them over to the authorities. We want the authorities to report on this case as soon as possible, since it's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6720	Will you give me that paper, too, Mr. Crassy?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6721	No, I won't. That's what you got. That's what you had to learn by heart. So, I'm acting in accordance with the orders of Mladjan Dinkic, who gave to his MPs. That's why I'm going out, to get the whole truth out, and for the sake of the public, and for the sake of you who are in power. Anyone who votes for Jelasic tells me tomorrow when you come out, say I'm the same as Jelasic - and I'll use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6722	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one question is why Mladjan Dinkic and G17 insist so much that they belong to the governors of the NBS. Due to the seat of the governor of the NB and whether or not he will be elected after the adoption of the new constitution, even at one point the adoption of the Law on the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which the citizens voted, has also come into question. The answer can lie in the following facts: thieving, crime and fear of slavery. These are reasons why G17 plus, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, insists on being governor, means to hide all abuses during the takeover of the RS NB, all abuses while the governor was Mladjan Dinkic, all the abuses that the current Governor Jelasic has made for Mladjan Dinkic and for his own account. Starting on October 5th and that violent takeover of the NB, then the SRJ. Everyone claims, of course, that the G17 and Mladjan Dinkic, there was no violent takeover of the NB. If there wasn't a violent takeover and an armed man breaking into the NB, then where's the record of your transfer of duty between your former governor and your future governor? There are no records and it is unknown - how many gold reserves there were in the NB vaults at that time, there is no known how many foreign reserves there were in the NB vaults, there is no other valuable assets that the NB had at that time, starting with works of art, rare collections, money, old money, etc. Now Mladjan Dinkic came in, adopted, usurped before the decision of the then SRJ Assembly and appointed myself as governor of the National Bank. During that period of powerlessness that you caused by the arson of the Assembly, even money from foreign reserves was spent unintentionally, was spent on the orders of some crisis headquarters, and the orders of crisis headquarters were directly signed by no one but Mladjan Dinkic. It's, ladies and gentlemen, pure crime, and those who say it's impossible, one of those papers showed up here, read behind this pay phone, showed to the MPs, but no one was responsible for it, and for this abuse, nothing else follows but prison. Since the election for the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic has been moving towards reforming the banking system. A review of the reform of the banking system under the recipe of Mladjan Dinkic - in the closure of domestic banks. What are the consequences when four major domestic banks close down a criminal like Mladjan Dinkic. The first consequence is that large systems that owe these banks no longer owe them anything, because banks are gone and going to privatisation. I could understand that this obligation, which the systems that privatize had towards closed banks, were directed towards the state, but you didn't do it either. Let me remind you of the Sartide case. The Sartid was sold for 21 million dollars, if you had declared that land Sartid's land to be agricultural land and sold as agricultural land, you would have made more money. There's another damage. It is the state that has taken over to pay commitments to foreign banks, which are of course not under the usurpation of Mladjan Dinkic, and the damage is about 480m euros, which the state has paid. And there are all involved, there are no innocents, beginning with Vlahovic, Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic, Pitic and the whole society. That's why, when it comes to it, you keep your mouth shut, because they know every single responsibility for the Sartide. What's the second consequence? The second consequence is that domestic operators no longer have domestic banks to invest their capital in their production, modernisation, capacity expansion. This is the second consequence, and thus the result is weakened by the economic power of the country, the weak socio-economic position of the people working in the economy, and they do not receive salaries from public spending, or those persons are left without a job. The third consequence; the now open banking market of foreign banks has full impact, without any competition. Their target group is citizens. They place loans on far-favoured terms, rather than placing loans on the territory where they come from. They do not aim at economic development and are not aimed at economic development or recovery of the Republic of Serbia. With Jelasic still goes, the NB takes over insurance-related jobs, closes a number of insurance companies, even one session of the Finance Committee, which discussed the closure of insurance companies, has been declared a top secret session and the MPs who are not members of the Committee have been expelled from that session. There's so much about the public in your work. With facts, such as that monetary policy led by Jelasic stabilizes the course of the dinar, to see what it looks like. Since we no longer have a serious economy, since we have banks that constantly place certain funds on the market through unfavourable loans to citizens, there is a imbalance in the loan money market and to prevent the dinar from falling, or the euro leap, the governor increases the obligation of deposits to the National Bank, collects loans, and the reason is - the economic power of the economy is not able to meet the needs of the population. Wasn't it more normal for it to stabilise the market in a more natural way, which is to reduce the deposit made for loans to the operators investing in production, thus creating a new value, creating jobs, reducing production costs and thus making economic recovery? No, there's no commission from that. The tip of the National Bank's robbery against Serbian citizens is the broadcasting of securities of value. Under the new law on securities of value, it is the National Bank that can broadcast securities of value on the market. As the National Bank does, no one knows. What banks to trade with, probably on the side. What interest, no one knows, is talked about 15 to 20% on an annual basis. You gentlemen, defending planned inflation from seven to nine percent, target, why these interest rates are not in line with the business policy and interest provided by the National Bank on the securities market. In 2006 alone, the loss due to this is 30 billion dinars, which will be paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What I have now presented is only one part of the criminal activity of Mladjan Dinkic and Jelasic, the new governor. Don't brag any more about how, while you're in power along with them, the old loans have been paid off. You paid us back, ladies and gentlemen, old loans, far more favourable, you owed us a new one, with the accompanying expenses of nearly a billion dinars and new commissions. Because on those loans that were old, commissions were taken 20 or 30 years ago, so Mladjan Dinkic is not a place in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Jelasic is not a place in the National Bank, and one and the other is a place in prison, in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6724	The word is by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6725	You, Mr. Albianic, know very well what the members of the Rules of Procedure are. (President: 136, 225, 226) That's right. I'm trying to awaken my conscience and let the public know, and make a better strategic position for the two or three minutes that I'm going to end up being within my parliamentary group. What's this about? The public has been informed through a newspaper article since 11 November 2003, where Mladjan Dinkic said he had been attacked unfounded and that he had carried out some investigative activities and reached the next conclusion. These officers, who will formulate it, to know that I refer this question to Mr. Jocic. When it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, you can see that Jocic is somehow the most competent. Then Dinkic said the following -- Vice-President G17 plus Mladjan Dinkic, said yesterday that the account indicted by the Institute of G17 by all accounts belongs to state security workers and that around $140m was registered through it. After such information, following the fact that Mr. Dinkic entered the government right after this date, he was the finance minister, I think the state must come forward and say what is the bill that $140m went through from abroad, funds intended for the destruction of the state. It's not an accusation right now, I don't know, someone on the street said "wow, minister." He accused the interior minister. Who? Former governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. It can't just end up on the paper. We need to get an answer to that question. Furthermore, Niška Banka bought some OTP bank from Hungary and some now claim it's a bad job per state. I am not going to quote all these details and data, who drove interested customers away, are said to be Mladjan Dinkic, but I am asking for answers to my question, Jocic has to answer, because he collects documentation against Mladjan Dinkic. I want to make him do his job. Who represented the OTP Bank in those negotiations and who represented the National Bank of Serbia? I know you'll tell me what the National Bank of Serbia has to do with it. It has to do with my brother talking to my brother...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6726	Mr. Krasic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6727	A brother and his brother discussed the sale of the Serbian state. I'll be reporting to the Rules of Procedure, that's not the problem, but I thought, Mr. Albianic, that in the last few years you've learned what politics means. But if you haven't learned, then I'll be teaching you any minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6728	The People's Messenger Vlado Sekulić has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the second day we've been discussing the candidate, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, for the governor, and as far as I can tell, he's a candidate of the G17 and the others are being fenced by him and they don't want to comment at all. Whoever tried, let me say on the left, that some argument that in his favor was really contradictory and the issue is being imposed, and it has been proven that Mr. Radovan Jelasic is a controversial person. Indeed, it was controversial in the explanations that he was a man who helped protect Serbia's currency, and it was his obligation, that a man who was fighting an import lobby, and on the other hand was raised the question, how to fight an import lobby if he deliberately held the degrading value of the euro that harms exporters or contributed to the import lobby. This was an explanation by Mr Vujadinovic, and it is really contradictory of him to encourage business and exports on the one hand, and on the other hand to defend the low value of the euro. Basically, what I think is crucial, and it is crucial that if we were all real, we would read the final account of the National Bank of Serbia for 2006, where the loss of 30 billion dinars was shown, we would know who was responsible, and that is Mr. Radovan Jelasic. Then it would be pointless for us to discuss in general a man to be governor, and he stands behind an institution that is extremely important for Serbia, and for the economy and all the citizens of Serbia, as the G17 ladies and colleagues have said that he is so professional that he is even followed by this villa that has been mentioned several times and is already familiar with everything. I'm asking, why would that follow him? Then everyone would take their own functions, but as they started, maybe that's how they realized it, from Tadic and beyond, that's how the neighborhood spreads, G17 plus, DS. So it's degutant that Mr. Jelasic is so praised, and he's a man who was also responsible, and he's managed, held and implemented decisions on the monetary policy of the National Bank of Serbia, and there's been a loss of 30 billion dinars. It seems impressive and it's a big number, and you know what could have been done normally for all that money. He's been praised for raising his foreign reserve. How are they increased? Normally, through privatisation, through the inflow from privatisation. He didn't say anything about it, that he did something right. If this were to be seen and how these banks were privatised, it would have been from case to case. The privatisation of banks was from case to case, and that crucial statement by Mr. Jelasic was that it was cheaper whether the banks were liquidated than to enter into recovery or bankruptcy proceedings. Is that so true? It's not certain, right away, that any normal person will know that any wish could have been consolidated by the banks, to move forward through the bank's bankruptcy proceedings. We know which banks they are. Now that we're talking about these banks, we know where those banks were, what happened to those locations afterwards, and who's in the lease of all those places? We know that all the banks that, rough to say, were shut down, liquidated, the workers were driven out into the street, were promises to hire them afterwards. We know who usurped those rooms, how to rent and how to move on. There is the main role of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Also, who read the Report on the National Bank of Serbia's final account, saw what Mr Jelasic's relationship to his employees was like. All these banks he liquidated, he fired the workers, he threw people out on the street. These were all professional personnel who had 20, 30 years of employment, it's hard to hire, they got some severance money they gave at that point, they couldn't get into some negotiations for something better. Now that this report is read, you will see that the report says that again in the National Bank of Serbia there are a large number of employees. So, all they fired, then they took all their personnel from their parties and came wildly out of their pies, now those people who spent the entire working century in banks that were liquidated and in the National Bank of Serbia, they're now excess, and these new professional staffs, let's say, they're disabled, and so much is required of that profile. What is Mr Jelasic's profile and expertise? Anyone who's real should know that if someone made 30 billion dinars of loss, it should be behind the lock, not mentioned as a great expert who follows everything, from the villa and beyond. It has been said that Serbia's external debt has been reduced. The exact information is that Serbia's external debt amounted to $19 billion at the end of 2006. When it appears, external debt is 80 percent higher than in 2000. It is known who came to power in 2000, all these experts, instead of reducing that foreign debt, they even increased it. The overindebtedness comes literally when it comes to the private sector, and within it from the banks, and that is the main point of Mr Jelasic, the IMF and his crew, who saw it, the vice governors of his, and they are experts in the IMF, experts in liquidation and bankruptcy. What kind of experts, they did that to the banks. They immediately placed everything under bankruptcy, liquidated everything to use for their own benefit through the formation of the National Savings Bank and beyond. In order to see what a debt is and to come in the private sector from banks, which are constantly in debt abroad, to meet the increased demand for loans from the population, rather than businesses, which is extremely negative. Let's understand that these banks, which they have ensnared under strange circumstances, are not some representative in our area of the bank. They're here to help the economy, to help the economy take credit, to get the economy going, to increase exports, and then we're going to reduce the external trade deficit we have, and we're going to go to surpluses. This is how banks that offer favourable loans came in. We're talking about -- you come in, you come out, and all these commercials were there, and it's no wonder when the banks show up, and you know that Bozidar Djelic has won a huge 10m-euro stock in Meridian Bank, Mr Jelasic is tied to HVB Bank. These are the people from the banks who came to cross the road here, not as great patriots, as they were, that they came to Serbia to help the Serbian people, but to cross the path to foreign banks that could no longer be placed on the foreign market and to break through so easily, but to come to us. And now absurd, it is mentioned that there is a great demand for these loans. Normally, it is a great demand, because the average citizen of Serbia cannot survive with his salary. He has to be in charge of that bank to secure some existence for his family. The interest is extremely large, and I will connect you later to the story under which conditions Mr Jelasic received a loan for the villa. You know that the interest rate is 10, 12, 15 percent, and he got a 7% interest on the annual level; I'll prove to you, I have proof that it was. Just so our citizens know, in 2006, the banking sector of Serbia had 37 banks, 22 foreign banks, seven private banks and eight banks owned by the Republic of Serbia, where the majority capital of the Republic of Serbia was. It was also mentioned that Mr Jelasic was extremely responsible for the inflation that was designed for 6.5. I'm telling you, if it's under nine, we'll be happy. This inflation was protected, and so, when it corresponded to the team of Mr. Jelasic, Mladjan Dinkic and everyone else, to keep the euro, not to fall, they placed it on the market, bought it from euro exchanges, and so they came into the situation to keep the euro's decline, when it was supposed to go up, and now suddenly the euro fell to the smallest level, just when Mr. Jelasic was elected governor. The question was asked -- could Mr. Jelasic be a candidate for governor if a criminal report was filed against him. Bank shareholders from Nis filed criminal charges against the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, because he did not respect the Serbian Supreme Court's decision. We also talked about the capital, how it was not allowed to buy out the great Russian corporation of the Converts Group, which wanted to buy out the Kulsa Bank's shares, to invest. I end up with a statement by Mr Jelasic, that he paid 380,000 euros to his villa, with 15 acres of 180 square meters, and then 390,000 euros were said afterwards. I'm telling you, he confirmed that he gave one piece in cash, and the other part through credit. Its monthly war is 939 euros, as Serbian citizens can dream, that in four months they can earn that money, as much as he gives for the war. The interest rate is 7%, which is, he says -- offered to all employees at the National Bank of Serbia. It is known who is employed at the National Bank of Serbia, these are privileged people. He said the National Bank of Serbia has a contract with two banks. One is Raiffeisen, and the other is Hippo Alpe Adria Bank. He didn't want to say which one of the banks he took credit in. So Mr. Jelasic is a man who's gone too far with these prices. I'll tell you right away, I live in New Belgrade, Ledine, the ar is from 10,000 to 15,000 euros without infrastructure, clean field. Compare how much he needed to pay for this villa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6730	Mr. Krasic, do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure? Let me just have one notice before that. The remaining time of the SRS is 34 minutes for three available speakers and I ask you to continue to finish this discussion, not to take a break, then go to lunch, then vote, etc. National MP Zoran Krasic, Art. 136, 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6731	Since you, Mr. Albianic, are all clear, it's a lot easier for me. When it's finally clear to him, then the audience is familiar with the details. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we can decide on this item of the agenda unless we get the right answer from Mr. Radet Bulatovic and Mr. Dragan Jocic, and it concerns what has been in the media and in the public for several years and has never been given the right answer from the competent authority, an answer that we could all uniquely accept and that in this way we comment on some events. What's this about? When the money was sought by Slobodan Milosevic, then the cousin of Mladjan Dinkic was found in Cyprus, then one expert commission was formed to examine all this. The composition of that commission was a colorful figure. But in the name of these organs of persecution, there was a certain God and a certain Savior. I may have made this Savior and made a mistake, but I don't think I'm the Goddess, I think it was Oliver. I'm interested in where they are now. Are they still in state security, or are they in some places where money flows are controlled? Maybe one of them is in charge of that centrifugal machine that needs to wash the money. Let's see where they are. To answer us. If they've made progress, how they've made progress. As far as I've read the interview with Dusan Mihajlovic, he says - I have nothing to do with it - I've identified two people who should do it, who are experts in these things. He says I never got the report. Batic never received a report, he got a report from Carla del Ponte, something else. All right, Ilic went looking for it, too. Lost treasure kidnappers. The young man said - 4.5 billion in the account and the end of the story. These guys must know where he is. Why am I asking this? Because Mr. Jocic doesn't know anything about UBPOK running G17 plus for him. It's not enough what you're saying -- not true or--e, from the scene. Come and deny it here, let the public hear, that you say that G17 plus has nothing to do with UBPOK, and I tell you... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. It's time to get an answer, Mr. Albianic. One more sentence. It is very important for Jocic and these others. There is a group of loyal people in UBPOK, all of which indicate that it is Mladjan Dinkic, who listen to phone conversations. You smile, just smile. You never applauded when I said something. But after a few months, you all came in line to say, well done, you were right from the start. I'm telling you in advance. For what? Remember who he said - Lucky's a little nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6732	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6733	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for public reasons a few reminders. First, the choice of governor of the National Bank was to be found on the agenda long before today, or yesterday, that we were obliged before that to pass a law on the National Bank, to choose the National Bank Council, and then to choose the governor. So fully consciously, the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the president of the National Assembly have brought and are still keeping Serbia in an unconstitutional state. Today, the president of parliament tried very clumsyly to explain that he was right and probably, when he realized what he had said, he no longer appeared here, and then Mr Albianic said that today in Serbia the most important issue is the choice of governors. This is really scary. The choice of governors of the National Bank is certainly a very important issue in every serious state, but in Serbia, where it is today, it is said that there is something more important than Kosovo and Metohija is unacceptable and incredible. How did the representatives of the G17 Plus party try to introduce the candidate for governor of the National Bank? First of all, we haven't had a proposing representative in two days, and for two days we insist that someone as a proposing representative, or vice president of the Finance Committee, sits here, that he answers our questions, which apparently the candidate for governor and the current governor does not want to answer, or not. Radovan Jelasic, as soon as possible, must not appear here in front of the MPs, as he could not deliver a report on his work. Of course, it is not the congregation service that is wrong, and it is not the way to comment, but rather the distribution of this material by whoever delivered this material has stopped. Then it's no wonder the G17 got a warrant to be the scariest words: a criminal, a thief and a robbery. When it comes to anyone from G17, I mean the officials, from formerly Labus, Dinkic, Jelasic, to them are just those words: a criminal, a thief, a bank robber. That's what the fact is. (President: Mrs. Radeta, please take care. Mr. Albianic, sit down and enjoy yourself. When I'm done, if, by your judgment, I'm wrong about the Rules of Procedure, give me a warning. Until then, don't interrupt me and give me back 50 seconds. Let me say a few words about what you call a si-vi. It's a Serbian-born biography candidate. It says here that Radovan Jelasic was born in 1968 in Baja - Hungary. Then it is said that he graduated 92nd from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. I guess he went to elementary and high school in the meantime. I don't know why you, as a promoter, avoided writing what is the fact that Mr. Jelasic finished elementary and high school in Hungary. So then you say, studied as a stranger. He was a vice governor for two days as a stranger. You are right, Mr Krasic, and that is what I want to remind, first of all, the public of Serbia, I assume that the MPs know that, when he was elected Vice Governor, Mr Jelasic was a citizen of Hungary. And the then State Administration Act and today's law predict that only a citizen of the Republic of Serbia can work in the state administration. Mr. Jelasic won Serbian citizenship after two days of being elected Deputy Governor of the NBJ, then. Next, it's written here what Mr. Jelasic was doing. Serbian citizens know best what he's been doing here for the past seven years. Among other things, in this biography he says - languages: besides the mother - Serbian, he speaks fluently and Hungarian, English, German etc. I don't know which one of these other mothers is, but it's amazing that the biography says someone speaks the language of their country and their people. I guess this is the first time you've written your biographies. Also, I would like to remind you of the time when Mr Jelasic was elected Vice Governor, that he spoke to his mother-in-law in a way similar to that of this self-called Prince Alexander. In the meantime, we heard all the affairs related to the name of Governor Jelasic. The representatives of the G17 plus party tried to defend him by reading the report here. Not a colleague of Natasa Jovanovic has said the right title, the title of the referendum is "The Paths of the Revolution", Miss Natasa. The report was in four parts. Nicely read by four MPs from G17 plus here, someone less beautiful, someone not very nice enough, because they didn't show that they could read well either. In any case, they said what they had to say, but did not answer the questions of all the MPs who participated in the debate, because only the MPs of the opposition participated and one single example from the DS. The discussion was like a radical one, or one that fits the truth, of course. So, the question of Jelasic's villa. This is where someone tried to play the big lawyer, explain to us who's obliged to pay real estate tax. I remind you, that Jelasic villa -- 180 m square, 15 acres of salary on Dedinj, paid 380 thousand euros, Jelasic said. According to the newspaper, he was nominated and offered -- if it is true that he paid the villa 380 thousand euros, to sell it for a million euros. He said no. Would a normal man refuse to make so much money in one transaction? No, of course not. The fact is, the other MPs here said, that it is a liability, by the bonds, that the sales tax on real estate pays the seller, but it's common, we can already call it a source of law, as a normal right, a colleague, you know that, in our case, the sales tax pays the buyer. I think it is indisputable that Jelasic has kept the tax from him, that the villa has been paid about a million and a half euros, as the media has informed us. The question we didn't get the answer, the question for the MPs, first of all for Mr. Jocic, to continue with what Mr. Krasic was saying, is who was responsible, who gave Mr. Jelasic this tax evasion? I know the answer and I'll tell you. Vladimir Ilic, who was then director of the Public Revenue Administration. Where is he today? Secretary of State. I've made progress, sir. He was the secretary of state, and at a time when Dinkic, again for some trange-frange reason, destroyed that previous government, so that Ilic went on TV and informed us that he, as a state secretary, then the deputy minister, resigned. After two days, he showed up again, and the pig pick doesn't apply, joked, failed to resign, remained in continuance with the secretary of state, then the deputy minister. So he is responsible for why Radovan Jelasic committed this crime, i.e. they are co-executors of the crime. Next affair, affair suitcase. In just one sentence, because this time when you talk about these criminals so flying that it would take us three times what we have in the Rules of Procedure. Vice Governor Dejan Simic, accused of "affering a suitcase", of 100,000 euros, received from the Credit-Export Bank. It's just to remind you, either for the governor's coffee shop, and the total amount the governor was supposed to get, that this hasn't been discovered, is two million euros. That's the amount he was supposed to get, so he wouldn't close the credit-export bank. There is, of course, evidence in both the UBPOK and the D.A. and all the competent authorities. Unfortunately, we have to wait for the rule of law to function and for all of this to be processed as our laws predict. So this is one piece of what Serbian radicals will not vote for Jelasic for the governor, but I am interested in how they will be able to vote for him. I will read only one sentence from Bozidar Djelic, as of 28 April 2007, when he said "Dinkic wants to preserve Jelasic without counting on the quota he will receive G17 plus in the executive government. Let's remind ourselves that Dinkic came to the governor's post, because Zoran Djindjic fought for it, since then the G17 blackmailed there would be no government unless they won the governor's seat. They've been holding the National Bank since 2000. G 17 can't say that the people who ran this institution came down from the sky, 'kiss their mother in the forehead', Djelic says. And his mother loves him, how many times will he and the rest of them yellow to tell lies, and not to blush before the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6734	The word comes from MP Zoran Krasic, and then from National MP Dragan Todorovic. Mrs. Radeta, it's really not fair, I haven't compared any moment to Kosovo and Metohija this issue. I said the most important question is on the agenda of the Assembly, and since it's the only one, it's really important.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6735	Since we are unable to get answers to those questions that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand what a cruel reality is when it claps this amount of democracy, I will briefly make a recapitulation that concerns this very proposal. I don't want to go into these details about the candidate, I guess it's clear to everyone that he doesn't meet almost any of the conditions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, no condition is met. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about that stupid password-- expertise in front of politics. If the expertise is ahead of politics, then a competition is called, and people who think they are the best, so the competition commission organises writing tasks or does some interview with them, or asks them to do something, so chooses the best. Here we have a situation where someone says -- expertise in front of politics, he'd like to say -- I'm such an expert that politics means nothing to me, I can do anything. Then we have these empty pumpkins that make a character, a face, a style of behavior of untouchableness. That's what this candidate is known for. Although he's destroying this country, he doesn't mind sitting on a bicycle with children and going into folk masses, deliberately provoking people to recognize him, as someone would say -- see, so a normal man. It's not, it's provoking, it's become boastful, it's strong, there's nothing for them, behind them is the World Bank, the IMF. Government? Whoever asks them, they're conditioned, they have to do as the election results say, and they barely beat that censorship. It's like the short one wants everyone to respect him if he's two feet and ten feet tall. That when he shows up in politics, then we have blackmail, we have everything and everything. G17 Plus insists on a non-party personality, Radovan Jelasic. That's what you convince your home when you leave, that he's an impartial figure. When you convince them, then come here for a pay phone and talk. You've had your chance. The lady just read it. It's a clean store. They're the government and they belong to a part of the government. Who? G17. How do they manifest their participation in power? Through a non-party personality, Jelasic. Let's prove it with your children and with your relatives, friends, Mr Jelasic's impartial orientation. These things that concern his screw-ups, as far as law, morality, conflict of interest, etc., like his party boss, so does he. The party's head is a commissar, as his wife works in his ministry, employees are afraid of commie Zivka, and externals are afraid of the minister. That's not true? It's not true about nepotism in that ministry? Who said it wasn't true? Come out for a pay phone and tell me - Beauty is a lie. You don't have the guts. Why is Jelasic important? Someone thinks he should have a little higher salary, because the governor has to have a salary as bankers, because for God's sake, he's gonna have a small salary to control those who have a big salary. The National Bank is a figure of expertise. He may not be a graduate philologist, but he runs banks, probably translates from Turkish. You're talking about some kind of expertise? You're capable of declaring yourself an expert. You've declared him an expert on folk defense. Why? He knows Norwegian. Now ballerina understands sports. Your ideas are boundless, but absolutely unreasonable. I go out to tell people what is the amount of unreasonableness in what you say when you open your mouth. Next, who can Dinkic scare? It can scare the government of the Republic of Serbia, coalition partners. You must vote for Jelasic, otherwise you would vote about, as Canak said - shut your nose, so vote DOS. Today in Serbia, to pass the principle between the two bad ones I define myself for what is less bad, the voters will punish it. I can't wait for you to vote for Jelasic. I can't wait to put you all in the same basket, because you didn't say a word out of him, and you attacked him, he attacked you, at the expense of the state, and even the independent commission found damage. The government will fall. So what if the government falls? Is there supposed to be some kind of government that can't work? Why would something that is incompatible and incompatible work? If you're holding him by force, it means there's a deal on the robbery. That's exactly what I want to prove. The government will fall, the government can't go without Dinkic. How can a country not have Dinkic, people, what are you thinking? The country will flourish. Dinkic in prison, a free economy, can develop. Imagine what this Dinkic is doing, he is suing for immaterial pains, he has neither physical nor psychic, nor has he brought fear. I really want to know if you're going through them when you're choosing them as ministers. You need to examine them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6736	Mr. Krasic, continue the exposure, but keep an eye out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6737	Mr. Albianic, the state by definition has business ability. The state as a legal person is treated as normal. Now I doubt whether that's possible under these circumstances. If 10 million people, their fate, their lives should depend on the will of Mladjan Dinkic and what he threatens to do, he says - if Jelasic is not chosen, I am leaving the government. I also told you when you made the government that he would be the first to escape. When there was a discussion about the government, I told you -- you know, you went into a coalition with G 17 plus, he always runs away when the time comes for elections and he's just chasing that 3 or 5%. Why? So we wouldn't be in jail. When he takes someone with them to talk about the coalition, where you are, you know, we're experts on money. Those money experts? Here's 300 million losses, 30 billion. When I was young and when I was a student, when we were studying the category of 'loss in business', I thought it was the director of the company that made it mandatory to go to jail. That's what I thought until I started working. When I started working, I saw what company was like. But how can the state tolerate such snotty, stupid, white-world bastards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6738	Mr. Krassic, you're really taking care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6739	Mr. Albianic, when these words are used in a faceless manner, they are not an insult. That's where you'd have to make a difference. If I had said that specifically and tied to your name, last name or work, then you would have had the opportunity to play a little bit on that bell, but since I used these words in general, without binding any person to these words, then you have to make sure that your intruders are not foolish, like those of a few days ago when you were looking for someone Peru. Look for more, what can I do for you? I can't solve your problems. So, members of the government, you have the financial fate of the Republic of Serbia. If you vote for Radovan Jelasic, regardless of what your leadership is, as far as DS is concerned, I am not sure of any sincere support. Why? You had to wait half an hour for the Finance Committee's session to get that one vote down. I'm just reminding you, I'm on my way to get these two friends to bleed. Whoever gave me the material doesn't matter. Last time, I explained, besides CEFTE, why Djelic had to limit Dinkic's authority and draw the Rules of Procedure on the work of the government. Now you understand. All resources are allowed in the fight against the non-majority, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6740	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the second day we've been discussing the proposal for a candidate for governor of the NBS. You have had the opportunity to hear a number of concrete arguments, which were presented by representatives of the SRS, who not only see a competent person in his expertise in the proposal, but above all dispute the choice of Jelasic as governor because they believe that Jelasic, because of everything he has done so far, not only can he not be governor, but he would normally and in the normal state, have to answer according to the law. There's one thing we should kind of do here anyway. If there is one thing that is incorrect, brought out by the MPs of the SRS, and you prove it, we will vote for Jelasic. If there are no such things, then the question is how can you vote for Jelasic? What was presented in the Serbian Parliament and for Dinkic, and for Jelasic, is the most difficult charge possible, after which only a criminal report should follow and the state authorities do their job they should do. I'll only try one case to prove to you what kind of man it is. You heard here the story of Jelasic's villa, which he allegedly bought for 380,000 euros, which is essentially worth and paid for surely over a million. We ask a simple question - where did Jelasic get a million euros? We got a biography. They say he mastered 95. I assume he immediately started working at Deutsche Bank, and by 2005 he has a total of 10 years of employment. Let's assume that the extracurricular talent, an expert, is capable of immediately entering a job that is well-paid. I ask the question that Radovan Jelasic tells us where he was working, because in 10 years he had to save a million euros. After 100,000 euros, in addition to what he had to spend on his and his family's lives, he could have left 100,000 euros. Okay, nothing weird about that, you make a lot of money, you make 100,000 euros. Gentlemen, 100,000 euros is a serious figure in every country. Such a number cannot be left without a trace. That number must be registered in a country through a tax system. I think Mr. Vujadinovic will agree that there is no state where it is impossible for you to remain 100,000 euros without being registered through tax. There are Seishels, various islands, but these are things that are illegal. It's punishable everywhere in the world, because, watch out, while that money flow is, until you get into a situation to buy something, you have to prove at that point where you got the money. Radovan Jelasic had to have tax returns from 96 to 2004 and to prove where he got a million euros from to buy the villa he bought. He, like those who came in October 2000 with vows, so like some of the aunt's, some of the tenants, after a few years, here's the one after five years, the one after six, became millionaires. It is a problem that you, as MPs of the ruling party, are facing. You are in a position to vote, although you are all safe, because I am giving you a concrete way of proving that Radovan Jelasic is a criminal and that he has earned this money along with Mladjan Dinkic in all the criminal activities, from the National Savings Centre, from the NBJ, all those jobs, and later I will read some parliamentary questions in the context of the discussion, to see how Radovan Jelasic came to the villa, that is, this money. The question arises -- what is your role here, should you participate in this joint criminal enterprise that one criminal... (President: Mr. Todorovic, please pay attention to your words. )......................................................................................................... Mr Albianic, I hope, at least I've heard from you a few times that you're in favour of the UN tribunal, etc., this term I learned from The Hague tribunal. So I don't know why you're warning me, they're so-called. Euro-Atlantic integration. We're adopting some things that we think can be applied to in our country, just not for what you want, but for what this country and the citizens of this country are interested in. The question arises - why Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica participate in this joint criminal enterprise, is this proof that your authority is only an opportunity to reach the prey. Yes, it is. Yes, because you're going over the facts-- a thief, a criminal, can be elected governor. We don't want to touch your thieves, you don't touch mine, you're in the government, you're in the ministries, you're in business. But why are you involved in this? Why don't you ask at your MP clubs, why should we support a thief like this as governor? I understand these G17s, I understand them, they come to Mirosinka and she writes them a report, they read here and they think they've done their job, and why do you agree to it? You want a normal state, and you say you're fighting for a normal state. Wait, do you think you can get a normal state with Radovan Jelasic as governor? With a thief like this, you want to get a normal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6742	Mr. Todorovic, I warn you again to take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6743	Mr. Albianic, I am giving you the opportunity to get information from Radovan Jelasic about this kind of money in your party. You know, it's simple, bringing you only nine tax returns. People, so a shoemaker who hits blockers, flashes and rags, he has to file a tax return every year, his income or the rest of the income question whether it's a few hundred euros in a year, and this kind of money to be untraceable, so that's impossible. I'm just letting you show all these criticisms in a simple way and divorce them, say they're not true. You bring tax returns to Radovan Jelasic and you say to Deutsche Bank he earned so much until they caught him, then fired him, because you know it's a serious bank, she doesn't put up with officers who abuse their position. I have no doubt that Radovan Jelasic earned this in Poland, and in Bulgaria, etc., by destroying the economy and the banking system of those countries, but also there he had to report that income. Once a sea, I can't afford to fall from the sky. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Vujadinović will professionally explain to you, without any problems, that there is no possibility of this kind of money being without origin. You ask Radovan Jelasic at the MP's club, say we can't stay alive from those radicals, give us those tax returns to show them and finish this story. Here you are essential accomplices, not only in the abolization of former crime by Radovan Jelasic and Mladjan Dinkic, but also in the future. You don't think they're gonna stop at work that started by breaking into the National Bank of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I use it, since the time for discussion of the SRS has expired, I respect the Rules of Procedure, I use the opportunity to ask some parliamentary questions, I ask them directly to Interior Minister Dragan Jocic, to help him find a faster way to track both Dinkic and Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6744	Mr. Todorovic, just a moment, you're doing business now, right? Now I'm giving you your time back, so you can go through the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6745	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I ask the Minister of Interior to discover, or to deliver information to the National Assembly, how much gold and silver was found in the vaults of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and how much in the vaults of the Bank of Yugoslavia on the day when Mr Mladjan Dinkic, with a crisis staff, took control of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I apologize to my colleague Radetti, it wasn't the ways of the revolution, it was the ways of the crisis headquarters. When you're on your way to the crisis headquarters, you get to the roads of money and the way this kind of money has been made. Also, I ask the question to provide us with information, how many valuable art paintings were in the premises of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in King Peter 12, in the former Boulevard of the Revolution, whose works were found in the entry of the crisis headquarters, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, and how many today? I ask the interior minister to provide us with information, how much numismatically forged and paper money from the exceptional historical value found in the National Bank of Yugoslavia, when the crisis headquarters headed by Mr Dinkic was also included, and how much is this collection today? And I'm also asking if some 200 dinar bills were printed first, and then cancelled, because it was done and what's the harm of it? Is several bills, worth a few million, of 10 dinars still in the vault of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Bank of Yugoslavia, because the governor, Mladjan Dinkic, still doesn't like the signature, because they didn't tell him the name goes first, after his last name? Only because of that fact has the state suffered enormous damage. The question arises, so that Dragan Jocic answers us, did Governor Dinkic break the contract with verified banknote repromaries and conclude contracts with a new one, which delivers poor quality, but therefore at much higher prices? That's what people say, they say we're slow and we do bad, but at least that's why we're expensive. I ask Minister Jocic's question that he gives us an answer, how much money has been spent on making specimens and how many times has he traveled to Guinea, how much money has been spent on these trips, to get a job that has not been received at all, but that is why the National Bank, or the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, or you, the Members of Parliament, paid for it fat. If we get answers, the right answers only to one of these or one of these questions, we would not waste any time on Radovan Jelasic, either Mladjan Dinkic, or the Government, would be dealt with by other state authorities, who would, in accordance with the law, do their job, and they would get a certain reward from this state, which is staying in detention offices and I'm sure there would be no less than 40 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-26-0.u6746	Thank you very much. I am concluding a single search on the motion for a decision, given that the National Assembly has held a debate on the only item on the agenda of this session and, on the basis of Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby set 26th September 2007 - today at 15.30pm, as the day for voting on the only item on the agenda of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. [[After break – 15:30]] We're continuing our work. Before joining the vote on the single agenda of this session, I would like to inform you that I have called on the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution to take an oath prescribed by the Law on the State Auditing Institution at this session. The swearing of the oath will take place after the vote on a motion for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Before the vote, please let us determine the quorum. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, before we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects the governor of the NBS to the majority of the votes of the MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. For 132 against 19, one of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Mr Radovan Jelasic on the election of the governor of the NBS on your behalf and on my behalf. I remind you that the National Assembly at the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session in 2007, held on 24 September 2007, was elected by the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. I also remind you that Article 19 is Section 3. The Law on the State Auditing Institution provides that after the election, the President, the Vice-President and members take the oath before the National Assembly, which takes office. I'd like the President, the Vice President and the members to approach to take the oath. I ask the People's Messengers to stand up. (The President reads, and elected members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution repeat the text of the oath set out in the Law on the State Auditing Institution) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. I promise to obey the Constitution and the laws. I swear with honor that I will carry out my duty independently, honestly and impartially, and that I will not abuse my jurisdiction. ''I ask the members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution to sign the text of the oath. I ask the MPs to sit down. [[Applause]] Allow me to congratulate on your behalf and on my behalf the members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution on taking office and wish them success in their work. Thank you, congratulations. Since the session shows the injuries of the National Assembly’s servants, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Ivan Andric, at a session on 25 September 2007, at 15.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 87 and 98. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's MPs to, press the corresponding key on the MP's unit, declare whether the injured Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 121, three of the 124 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you.
