ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10434	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 125 members of the Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that I have not received notice today of the absence of the Members of the People's Parliament. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE CONTINUATION OF THE CANDIDATE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE PRESIDENT, NAMED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC (CONTINUE) According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Vladan Batic has appeared. Mr. Batiq, you're the first on the list of speakers, you want to go straight to the Rules of Procedure, so you can move on now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I reported to the Rules of Procedure without knowing I was first on the list. I won't spend much time on the Rules of Procedure, it's not directly connected to the agenda, but it's in a causal relationship. I'm advocating a violation of article 200. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, on issues I asked the minister of justice a few days ago, Mr Dusan Petrovic, which refers to a judicial strike. The situation turns into a complete anarchy, a complete mess, into a complete collapse. Nothing's changed. There were negotiations tonight that didn't score. What has been offered to the judiciary unions is that 2,000 people voluntarily accept a 200-euro social programme per year. The proposal was rejected and today the courts in Serbia are not working. The financial damage is enormous; the damage we suffer as a state and the message and image we broadcast is catastrophic. The employees of the judiciary are on the verge of existence. Their receipts are at the level of social assistance. Mr. President, I have a concrete proposal: to ask the Government for a report on how many individual ministers from the formation of the Government to this day have hired advisers in their ministries in internal competitions. They're budget users. Some ministers have 50 advisors, and more. This is the most expensive and massive government in Europe -- while others have nothing to eat, cannot feed their children, ministers multiply their advisers day by day, from the order of party staff. It's something that's inadmissible. That agony lasts. All trials are adjourned. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia and as a former minister of justice, I call on all judges, all prosecutors, experts, trainees to co-ordinate with employees, with administrative staff in the judiciary. Serbia can't be a mother to someone. It can't be a stepmom. It's not true that people in the judiciary don't work, they do and how much they do. Each of us, especially people who deal with these things, knows that they really do work a lot, unlike ministers who spend enormous money on airplanes, mostly on pointless travels. I've been Minister of Justice for three years. I flew exclusively in JAT, never in business class. Were they born on a plane? It's a story of immorality. I am going back on the subject, just once again, since it is on this line, I ask for the third question, is it true that the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, who is 13 months retired, is still receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court in the amount of 230,000 dinars? Let's see how many directors of public enterprises have salaries? 30 or 40 times as many as those in the judiciary. Then a fake painting is being created here. As far as the candidate's proposal is concerned, I repeat what has been said several times, no account of the constitutional category - prominent lawyers. No criteria have been established which could answer the question of what corresponds to the category of prominent lawyer. We have a party court. Mr. Dulic, I asked a question yesterday, and I think you have an obligation to answer. Only the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Vojvodjan MPs have made it clear and loud about who their candidates are. Yesterday, Mr. President, speaking to parliament, you said you believed that you hoped the parliamentary groups had proposed their best candidates. Let's hear whose seven candidates are. I said that yesterday, I repeat now, one of them is a member of JUL, he was the President of the Court, or he was the President of the Court at a time when the justice minister was a member of the JUL. The candidate's sister is the president of the JUL Municipal Committee in the post. A woman retires in a few months. Is that JUL coming back to us? This is where Mira Markovic had her delegates when discussing the subject of who prefers Castro. Please respond, because MPs need to know what parties, which parties, which MP clubs have proposed the remaining seven candidates. Why are they ashamed of their candidates? Why do they hide them like a snake's feet? Then don't say it's not a party court, party couple excellency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10436	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Meho Omerovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10437	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I must admit that I share the regret that President Oliver Dulic pointed out yesterday afternoon by explaining the proposals of the Constitutional Court judges and giving us the fact that these ten candidates did not stop all the parliamentary groups. It is one of the great disadvantages of this proposal. The formal-legal Assembly of the Republic of Serbia numbers 250 MPs. By law and by the Constitution, each of us 250 can propose a law, each of us can propose an act that will be handled tomorrow by the citizens of Serbia and all of us and that we, of course, respect it. In the procedure for proposing candidates to bring about this high house, this right has been denied to the MPs. Namely, the same MP who has the right to propose the law, as we see it, had no right to propose a candidate for the Constitutional Court. Now you're asking a basic question, or maybe you don't think there's something wrong with it, who's more important, the law or the judge? Who's over who? The law above the judge or the judge above the law? Who needs to enforce and obey the law? Not only were the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament behind this proposal not only did all the parliamentary groups stand behind this proposal, but there is obviously no parliamentary majority behind it. If we add up the number of MPs from the parliamentary groups who have not given their candidates or who do not have candidates on this list behind them, as President Dulic said, then we will come up with 162 MPs who do not have any of their candidates. That's almost two-thirds of the Assembly. It was my business and principled remark. Now something concrete: of the 10 candidates proposed by Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, who should be the proposals of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic... We're late for this institution's election. We do not have one of the most important institutions in the state of Serbia for more than a year and a half, although I quote the already mentioned member of 173, the Constitutional Court judges are elected and appointed from the ranks of prominent lawyers, with 40 years of life and 15 years of experience in the legal profession. We have 10 candidates before us who, as peoples, are MPs, and on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be identified as candidates, from which five of them would be elected by the President of the Republic. The key questions are, who are these candidates? Do these candidates meet the conditions laid down by law? We Sandzak Democratic Party MPs feel they are not fulfilling. Due to yesterday's debate, as well as the overall situation that has been burdening the state of Serbia over the past few months, which refers to the situation of political and other opportunities in Sandzak, I have no intention of bringing problems from Sandzak to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia here today. So, I'm not going to talk about either the promoter or the political parties, I'm not talking about the Sandzak List, I'm only talking about candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. In particular, I will talk about a candidate under regular number seven, and this is Miss Zejnapa Kavrjic, a candidate who comes from the order of the people to whom I belong, from the area of Sandzak. Why am I only going to talk about this candidate? Because I think she's a candidate who, by no standard, meets the condition of being a Constitutional Court judge. If we look at the biographies of all the candidates we have received, we will simply see that in the competition of professors and judges, in the competition of people who had high averages in the studies of the law school is also called Miss Zejnape Kavrajić. She is the only candidate who wrote in his biography that he is not a member of any political party. There's a folk saying and it says, "everyone scratches where it it itches." So here is not a word, nor is it intention, as I said, to convey what is happening in Sandzak. It is not about the conflict of the two strongest Bosniak parties, because if that were the case, I would remind you, not the Sandzak Democratic Party MPs, as well as the majority in this assembly, would vote for a representative of the Sandzak List when elected vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, Mr. Esad Judževic. We think Miss Zejnapa Kavrjic is a bad candidate. Now let's look at the character and the work of the candidates under regular number seven. In the last few days, believe me, respected colleagues and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from the moment it was learned that the person concerned would be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, dozens and hundreds of phone calls, letters and letters, not only from Novi Pazar, but also from Sandzak's space came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to MPs, not only the SDP. Ms. Zejnapa Kavrjic participated in many disputes as a lawyer in the Forest Land by representing her firm. Unfortunately for her, she didn't get any disputes. How she works as a judge, because she's been proposed to judge the Constitutional Court, I'll only illustrate the facts. In the KU 896/04 case against Avdi Emini and Kasumi Rahman, who were caught in a drug checkpoint, police ordered detention for 48 hours, the investigative judge extended the detention, Judge Zejnapa Kavrajic sentenced them, but abolished detention with a note to return to detention when the verdict was brought to justice. Now you can imagine that two drug dealers who are residents of Kosovo and Metohija, I suppose, as loyal citizens of Serbia, will return to Novi Pazar to be punished. I note that he is not a member of any political party. In the last election, which is what colleagues from all political parties who participated in Novi Pazar know very well, as the president of the electoral commission has been chasing the polls and seducing order. Maybe her zeal and dedication wouldn't have been weird if she hadn't done it in the security jeep, with a man who was armed and who drove them every day and named Muric Aldin, who they call Cevap. This gentleman is, therefore, interesting, not only because of a nickname, but also because of the reputation he enjoys in criminal circles. Seven criminal charges have been filed against this Mr Cevapa, I quote: KU 344 of Article 246 for drug dealing, KU 316/07 of Article 348 for arms, KU 316 of Article 278, for the cause of general threat, KU 26/07 of Article 205 for robbery and theft, KU 440/06 of Article 355 for weapons and KU 292/06 of Article 230 for arms and KU 289 of Article 248 for drugs. So, Mr. Cevap is part of the team, headed by bodyguard Cigo Dolicin, who was arrested for stealing tractors recently in an action led by our police. Dear citizens of Serbia, who are the friends and closest candidates under regular number seven, Miss Zejnape Kavrajic, who should be the candidate of this tall home? A special chapter in the character and part of Zejnapa Kavrjic belongs to lawyer Esad Duljevic. Everyone in New Market knows what this is about. I seek, in the capacity of the People's Parliament, from this pay phone, using the right to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, that the Supreme Court of Serbia Supervisory Board should check the number of cases conducted by Ms. Zejnapa Kavrajic as a lawyer or witness, the lawyer in question, Esad Duljević, appears. It is also necessary that the Supreme Court's Supervisory Board responds to how many statements on the work of the judge in question exist at the Supreme Court. As you can see, dear colleagues, this candidate doesn't deserve to be judge of the court, let alone the candidate of this high court for the judge of the highest court case. I must point out, all citizens, especially in Sandzak, are concerned that the Assembly, as the most legislative body, is proposing one such candidate. She's not a candidate who shames his profession, she's not a candidate who does a bad job. If it passes as a candidate of the Assembly, it will be a shame and a degradation of this parliament. I therefore appeal, since you have come to the front row, Mr Omeragic, as a promoter, I most sincerely urge you to withdraw this proposal and give any other candidate and I guarantee you and I promise you from this pay phone, three SDP MPs without debate and without discussion will vote for this new candidate. Don't just, if you know for a fact, Miss Zejnep Kavrajić to propose as a candidate for the Constitutional Court. If you do not, the Sandzak Democratic Party MPs, if voted individually, will not vote for a candidate under regular number seven, and if they vote for the 10 candidates' summary list will suffer and the other nine candidates, neither guilty nor debtors, we will not vote for the whole list.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10438	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bajram Omeragic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10439	First I have to look back, and so did my colleague. I had polemics here for almost three and a half hours yesterday with colleagues who had different opinions. I don't mention anyone, and now I don't want to mention anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10440	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10441	After the Assembly turned into a fun-recreative program, from 100 to 150.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10442	I'm not letting the Assembly turn into a fun-recreative program. Respect the Rules of Procedure and tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken and you will receive time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10443	Article 100 and 101. What do I want to tell you? President, when someone says words this hard, untested, open lies... I pointed out here yesterday something that the Justice Department is following, the urgency, the percentage, the norms, the judgments that have been changed, the verdicts that have been abolished, is not enough. I didn't see anyone question that data here. However, I will have to comment first on a previous speaker who mentioned that someone was a member of a party. There's another candidate on that list who said he didn't belong to any party. What's this about? When the DOS came to power in 2000, it had a two-thirds majority in this room, it could bring a new constitution, it could change all the judges of the Constitutional Court, it could change Mr Vučetic, a member of the Central Committee. I'm personally with Mr. Vučetic in extremely good relations, he's a top lawyer, but you didn't want, former ministers, to change the member of the Central Committee, and if the man hadn't retired by law, he'd still be President of the Constitutional Court. He retired from the law, not because he was a member of the Central Committee or was a member of the SPS. So much for the zeal of former justice ministers who didn't ask to be replaced by members of the Central Committee. Some former speakers have told us here to beg on behalf of a party to withdraw this candidate. I don't know if they're begging on behalf of Mr. Covic, whether they're begging us on behalf of Karic, whether they're begging us on behalf of DS, if they're begging us on behalf of JUL, if they're begging us on behalf of any other parties. So, that hate language that we saw here yesterday, the language of hate that's being heard here today in the Assembly, is truly unworthy of this Parliament. Mr. Dulic, the president of parliament, invited us to come, all MP groups, to propose our candidates. It was said at a meeting of the heads of parliament that we could vote or not vote for some candidates, but that we should safeguard the dignity of this parliament, not to drag through the mud of those candidates who came on the list. I ask you, did the Sandzak List coalition here speak of any candidate of 20 who were on the list of the Presidents of the Republic and those proposed by the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10444	Mr. Omeragic, I have a proposition for you. Since your MP group has seven minutes and 12 seconds and you're next in line, I suggest you now spend that time as a speaker just discussing this topic. In the end, you have 10 minutes, and since you are the smallest parliamentary group you can use the time to speak for seven minutes and then speak for MP Momir Markovic. Here you go. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10445	Once again, I want to repeat to all those who are against the candidates of the minority list, those who are against this candidate, members of the Bosniak nationality, we told them yesterday – gentlemen, you who challenge this Bosniak who is on the list among 19 candidates of Serbian nationality, give another Bosniak. Or, if you don't give another Bosniak you tell the citizens of Bosniak nationality – Bosniaks, you don't have any lawyers, moral, professional or, as someone joked, prominent. When you point someone out on the list on the wall, that means a prominent lawyer. Therefore, those who criticise this candidate in every civilised parliament have the right to challenge him. Let them challenge him, but then run for another Bosniak. I ask you, why don't you run, you who challenge, another Bosniak, who is moral, worthy and professional? You gentlemen don't want the Bosniak to be the judge of the Constitutional Court. Tell the citizens of Bosniak nationality in Serbia. Why don't you have that candidate? Here, this candidate is not good and we don't argue, you don't like him, but give him the other one. Of the hundreds of Bosniak lawyers, you don't want any of them. You've had opportunities, all the parliamentary groups, to propose and you could say – it's okay, there's no Bosniaks in the Supreme Court, there's no one at the top of the prosecution, there's not a single judicial instance at the top of any Bosniak, here, we want to propose one. Why don't you suggest it? Who's defending you? Is anyone defending you? That's all I'm asking. Somebody get out here and say it. Don't insult people, don't insult political options, we don't insult anyone, we explained our proposal. You have the right not to vote for that candidate, but explain to the citizens why there is no Bosniak behind whom you want to stop. It's no good, Huso. It's no good, Mujo. It's no good. It's no good. Explain that to the citizens. That's what I'm talking about. We said we wouldn't deal with any candidates and, as you can see, we don't mention any candidates for two days. We have reason to talk about many candidates, but if the parliamentary groups think they're their candidates, in agreement with the president, we said we'd stand behind the candidates. We believe that all parliamentary groups have given good thought, that they will not give candidates who do not meet the legal requirements. We've stuck to it, but this much food, this much aggression, this much hatred to show here behind a pay phone against a Bosniak, it's really extremely inappropriate. Don't do that, gentlemen, to the Bosniak people. Don't do that. Suggest, gentlemen, it's not a vote yet. You suggest a Bosniak, you challenge him, we'll vote for him. Don't vote for ours, vote for your Bosniak. I don't know if there's a better idea. We of the list for Sandzak tell you – we will not challenge it. I can't understand. You don't want this Bosniak, but you don't want any Bosniaks. Therefore, I call on you again, we have time to vote, suggest one lawyer who meets these conditions of Bosniak nationality that we all vote for him, we will vote the same and I don't see where the problem is. There would be no tragedy if this Constitutional Court had two Bosniaks, nowhere in the judiciary at the top of any Bosniak. You won't vote for our candidate, let your candidate pass, I don't know if there are any better offers, that Bosniak, your candidate, will pass. On behalf of our Group of Minority Members, I promise you that we will vote for him. There are both Roma and Albanians and Hungarians, I don't see where the problem is. That's why I'm taking the opportunity, calling on you to break the language of hate, the language of contempt, the language of insult, because a candidate appeared in front of the Bosniak people who should enter the Constitutional Court, because it will be a future message for both the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office. It is no accident that there are no Bosniaks in any institution. Now it's clear who won't let Bosniaks, lawyers, get into the top of the justice system. I call you on behalf of the Sandzak List coalition and on behalf of the Minority Group, give the candidate, you who challenge, the Bosniak candidate, we will vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10446	Replica, MP Meho Omerovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10447	Now it's just gotten interesting. Mr. Omeragic seems to be confusing us all. He says, "I'm glad I heard that." He just said a few words that he didn't argue either that the candidate I was talking about was not good. If that's what you think, then really do what I've been urging you to do. Mr. Omeragic, I did not ask you, I appeal to you on behalf of the dignity of this assembly, on behalf of justice and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw one such candidate. So you're talking about hate language. What hate? According to who? The criminals I was talking about? According to those who release drug dealers from Kosovo and Metohija to pollute and poison our children, and the judges in question let them free on their word of honor, on our mothers, we will return to Novi Pazar to support the punishment. Is he treating them? Mr. Omeragic, there is no hatred here for any candidate. We are talking about a person here and what kind of candidate he is, how he does his job, whether he meets the law of the envisaged conditions, whether this candidate is worthy and worthy of being a candidate for this high house called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we're talking about. Please, Mr. Omeragic, I have called for you to withdraw the proposal, but I ask you not to abuse the membership of the Bosniak people. If he's a criminal, he's a criminal, no matter what nation he belongs to, and it has nothing to do with the candidates proposed for this court. This has to do with only one candidate, because this candidate is under regular number 7, Miss Zejnapa Kavrajić, connected to those same characters and those same faces that have some kind of nicknames of the type Cevap or Cigo. You know very well who I'm talking about. So you're here saying you haven't heard a word about the candidate. We need to talk about the candidates. Here on the agenda are the candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Don't talk about parties, don't talk about whether anyone was once a minister, whether someone was doing this or what, it's not a topic. If there's a topic, let us talk about it, too, why not, but now they're on the agenda candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. As you can see, the only candidate who is controversial, who is undeniably controversial, is the candidate you have proposed, who is clearly behind whom one political party stands and, more tragically, behind whom some circles that are far from what we are seeking and what we must seek as a National Assembly, which is to achieve justice and dignity for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we already want to talk about the candidate, according to the biography we could read in a minute and a half, she was born, graduated from law school, worked in "Serbiasum" and was not a member of any political party, you are sitting in the cabinet session, Mr. Omeragic, suggest Mrs. Zejnip Kavrajić to be a member of the board of directors of the company "Srbijasum". She's been working in the woods for 18 years, you've been sitting in the government, I think that proposal can pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10448	Here you go, Mr. Bajram Omeragic. Please really stop this dialogue about this candidate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10449	Article 101. I'm not going to mention names again, like I didn't say yesterday, because people who have nothing to say don't need to mention names, to insult. I have not heard that there is a law that prohibits someone from working in the forest land, being a lawyer in the economy, being elected as judge of the municipal court, being elected president of the municipal court, being elected judge of the district court, but probably someone who is not a member of the Sandzak Democratic Party should not be judge of the Constitutional Court. That law cannot be passed, and you have to understand, to calm down. Don't do this, but be dignified, suggest your candidate, Bosniak, that this assembly vote and let's see, you who claim to be against crime, for moral Bosniaks, suggest here this candidate, that's all I've asked you to do. Offer this Bosniak, let's see if there's a Bosniak who's moral to you. I beg you again, suggest a Bosniak. You come out here, you make up, you interfere with the work of the authorities. If the lady you're contesting were not elected judge of the municipal court, she wouldn't be elected judge of the county court. So, once again, please come out, find a Bosnian moral lawyer in Serbia, run for office here. You're going to have to explain to your membership why you don't want a Bosniak lawyer to propose. We won't say anything else. We explained our proposal. But explain here the proposal of a moral Bosniak, a top-notch lawyer, over 40 years of age and to be distinguished. Come out, mention his name here, and we'll vote for him. You can't be against all the Bosniak lawyers in this country and then challenge something you can't argue with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10450	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Milisav Petronijevic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10451	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. Rules of Procedure and Rule 9. Constitutional law. Please, Mr. President, when I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for an answer to what I advertise as an injury. My first question is: on what basis do the provisions of the Constitution or the laws of the political party, parties, or parliamentary clubs or groups propose candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court? Please quote me that provision of the law or the Constitution. Secondly, and I've asked you this many times, how is the constitutional category respected -- the prominent lawyer? No one has mentioned here in the candidates' discussions so far based on national belongings. I'm sure there are a lot of people among Bosniaks who meet the criteria that could be taken under the category - a prominent lawyer. Independent of national membership, what criteria led to the determination of candidate status? After a great deal of trouble, we have finally come to the knowledge of who the fourth out of ten candidates are. Mr. President, and that's my third request, please answer, who are the other six candidates? So, they've said publicly so far: the Bosniak party, the Vojvodjani MPs, the SPS. When are the other six candidates? Mr. President, you have signed this proposal and it is normal for opposition parties, such as the Democratic Party of Serbia or the MP club LDP, who have not proposed their candidates, to criticise the list of proposed candidates and to offer arguments as to why they consider the list inadequate. Indeed, it is the highlight of absurdity when MPs of the ruling coalition argue with each other and speak hard words about the candidates you have proposed. It's really the highlight of absurdity. So here is the controversy between the two MPs of the ruling coalition. Then how can this be a representative proposal and a representative list of candidates? Fourth or fifth, I would like to ask that these allegations taken by fellow MP Meho Omerovic be checked. He listed the number of criminal records and cited the names and indeed, if the Assembly can stop and if that is true, I assume that Mr Meho Omerovic has arguments and evidence for what he claims, then it would be absolutely absurd... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to find one such candidate on the list. I repeat once again, of course there's no connection to nationality, because no one normal or mentioned it, nor can they mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10452	Thank you. Mr. Batic, you know, of course, he's a 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined the choice of the Constitutional Court. As far as the assembly proposal is concerned, you know that there is a problem of legal voids related to both the law and the Rules of Procedure of this assembly and how judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. You took part in the debate about it. The establishment of the list of judges of the Constitutional Court established by the Assembly is not precisely defined and we are now doing what we have to do. As for parliamentary clubs that have proposed a list of judges of the Constitutional Court, in addition to the parliamentary clubs you mentioned, up to the deadline scheduled and moved several times, the judicial lists have proposed the G17 plus parliamentary groups and the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. You had that information because that information was presented at the Constitutional Committee session. I think I've answered all your questions. As per the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic reported. Here you go. Wait a minute. Then Mujo Mukovic, then Bajram Omeragic, then Srdjan Sajn. So, what's the debate about the Constitutional Court judges turn into? I agree that it is a debate, but why don't people apply for a speaker, when it's already debated by the Constitutional Court judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10453	Mr. President, don't talk to me, and don't waste my time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I request a notice per article. In 225 and 226, and I urge the President of the National Assembly to consider applying Article 143. Rules of Procedure. Why? Last night, the SPS parliamentary group publicly and clearly stated how it participated in this proposal for the Constitutional Court's judges, led by the need for the Constitutional Court and that it had been missing for more than a year and that there was so much need for the Constitutional Court to respond. Of course, with the knowledge that there are legal gaps and that there is no elaborate mechanism for proposing judges in that part that the National Assembly is to propose, the SPS parliamentary group has stuck to the agreement reached with the heads of parliament on how to reach that candidate proposal. The SPS parliamentary group and now believes, if something is agreed, that the agreement should be kept. I'm asking, Mr. President... The controversy in the National Assembly is good and desirable, this is a representative body, logically between the position and the opposition. I don't mind polemics either within the positional and within the opposition parties. I am concerned, Mr. President, with one sentence I heard from MP Mehe Omerovic, which is why I am asking you to answer whether it is true. The sentence is - behind this proposal for a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges to be proposed by the National Assembly is not even the ruling majority, besides opposition parties; therefore, a figure of about 160 and how many MPs has been mentioned. I'm asking you, Mr. President - if that's true, why are you distracting us here? Then why are we having a debate here? Who's going to adopt this list? Is this playing with the state, playing with the Constitutional Court? What's this about? The opposition parties will always find ways to question the proposal on the Parliament's agenda, that's their job, but how is it possible that the ruling coalition doesn't do everything to form the Constitutional Court and that the state gets the Constitutional Court and that we discuss all the issues previously? I don't mind if they continue the controversy here. I ask you, if it is true that this proposal does not stand at 160 MPs, despite opposition and ruling parties, Mr President, withdraw the proposal and do not play with this assembly and with the citizens of Serbia and show unseriousness or irresponsibility in establishing such an important supreme authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10454	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Don't worry, I don't know how MP Meho Omerovic came to that account, I'm sure behind these motions for the Constitutional Court judges are all the parliamentary groups that participated in drawing up this list, so no worries. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mujo Mukovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10455	Let me just say at first, as far as mathematics is concerned, as Mr. Omerovic calculated how many MPs... (President: Mr Mukovic, you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 143. We've challenged a candidate and we're asking for a special vote on him. By the way, I just wanted to answer what you said, Mr. President, and explain to parliament why my colleague Omerovic said that most of these proposals do not stand. Maybe it's the wrong formula, it's most of it, but it's not suggested by most of it. Because the Democratic Party MP club doesn't have candidates here on this list. When we do that math, then we get to the number... There is no SRS, no other parliamentary group. Then we come to the conclusion that this list has been proposed by about 80 and some MPs. That's it. When I speak to the Rules of Procedure, I'm really sorry and I don't want to abuse this pay phone, but I must say, first of all, that the candidate under regular number 7 has to be voted in particular because he's been challenged here. Secondly, it would be best if the motionor withdraws the proposal, given that we have heard from the promoter himself that it is not a good candidate. On the false dilemma launched here by Mr. Omeragic that, behold, there is no other Bosniak, so we must vote for this, I answer simply that we will not vote for the worst candidate. Why isn't there another Bosniak? No, because the DS parliamentary club in negotiations with other political parties has given up its proposal, otherwise we would have another candidate. Although the Sandzak Democratic Party here has three MPs, the Sandzak Two List, we did not have the opportunity to propose another Bosniak because we do not have a parliamentary club and it is very simple. I want to say that it is not true what Mr. Omeragic said here - that we are against the Bosniak candidate. We think that in the first place we should vote and propose professional people, but if we already propose on that national key, the candidate Bosniak must be at least equal to the rest, we do not agree to be the worst and we will not support this candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10456	The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bajram Omeragic. Tell me, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10457	Article 101. I'm the one who answered for the correction. One MP here, not this previous one, but the one before him, said that a Bosniak party has proposed candidate Zejnap Kavrajic. In the material you have there clearly which parliamentary group has proposed this candidate. Therefore, I think it is extremely unserious, incorrect that the level of this assembly is so low and that certain MPs, I don't know which word to use, won't even read who suggested who. They keep saying you don't know who suggested this candidate. I am the deputy member of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities in this House, yesterday I spoke and melodged for about three-and-a-half hours, today we started working and again this MP wonders who proposed this candidate. I ask the Serbian Parliament's service to give this MP one more time, perhaps he has not received the material and has not seen from the material who suggested this candidate. As for the members of a party who regret not having within a single parliamentary group the right to propose a Bosniak, that is not our problem. We have two MPs and we have proposed a candidate. Any parliamentary group can propose a candidate, come out, propose a candidate. We've been invited to speak with the President of Parliament... Well, MPs propose laws, my people, read the Rules of Procedure, the law can be proposed by an MP, not by a member of the Constitutional Court. He's entitled to it. I'm calling you again, if you want us to continue this, we'll discuss it for another three days. Suggest your Bosniak, who you consider to be prominent, that he is over 40 years old, that he is a lawyer, and that he is worthy of your proposal. Find that lawyer, and we'll back you up, but come out with that name finally. Forget this candidate, go out with one Bosniak, a graduate lawyer. As for the other MPs who have disputed, I call upon them who say... (President: Mr. Omeragic, respect the time. I've got more time. So I'm calling on other parliamentary groups that have challenged this candidate, because they said they have nothing against the Bosniaks, to find this Bosniak as soon as possible, to propose it, and we're going to support that moral, prominent Bosniak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10458	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Sajn, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP Vesna Pesic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the two replicas of Mr Meh Omerovic and Esad Djudjevic. Mr. Meho Omerovic is giving up on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10459	Dear Chairman, I will speak by article 225 and 226, however, immediately say that I will not use the time I need to have for discussion, I will just say what I wanted to say then, but just because of the time, since Mr Batic asked who he suggested. As an MP for the Roma Party, I spoke with representatives from the Duke's Parliament club; knowing Mrs Agnes Kartag, whom I consider to be a top lawyer, we support her candidacy as if she were our candidate. I'll just try to bring a few things into favor. If we ignore the fact that he is a minority representative, that he is from Vojvodina, then there are a thousand other serious arguments that give priority to this candidate over many other candidates who are on the list of presidents of the Assembly. First of all, what's on her side is that it's about a man who's a serious scientist, for many years he's been working on legal science, and the third thing is that it's about a man who's in a very specific place, not only in college and institutes, but also in the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, he's shown that he has feelings and a sense of passing legal science in the best possible way in the application of rights, that is, in practice. It showed great sensitivity to respect for human and minority rights. The fact that she is a member of the Hungarian national community did not prevent this ministry from making its contribution to finding members of all national communities in that ministry its place; that, when forming national councils, it would contribute to building such models that would match not only its Hungarian national community, which is concentrated in Vojvodina, but also other minorities, such as the Roma minority, which are dispersive in Serbia. It is doubtless a man who is a serious candidate, a scientist, a lawyer, and who above all, which is very important to every judge, has high morals. We can't talk about judges unless they have morals and they don't have a sense of practice, of life, even though they're scientists. This candidate has all these elements. What is particularly important, although it has been employed several times in Belgrade, has not remained there, has not become a Belgrade girl, remains a faithful environment from which it originated, both Vojvodina and Novi Sad remained faithful. This shows that if we choose her as the Constitutional Court judge, we have a different picture of which we cannot claim the candidates will stay unless she is in that choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10460	The word comes from MP Vesna Pesic, then from the head of the DS Nada Kolundzija parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10461	Dear President, MPs, I have looked very thoroughly at the material we have received for the ten proposals proposed by the Serbian Parliament and I would really like to say that Mr. Dulic is not here, but you, Mr. Mrkonjic, are to answer some questions for me, because I, as a Member, should define myself. First of all, as far as this list is concerned, there will be a vote. It is known that our parliamentary club will not vote for this list, but I individually want to bear some responsibility for what is currently happening in the Assembly. Please, is it normal that in one material that we received neatly, we get proposals from political parties for certain candidates, without knowing for five candidates who suggested them? Am I supposed to ask my colleagues around or was that supposed to be in the material? I wasn't invited to talk to Mr. Dulic, and I'm not obliged to ask Mrs. Hope Kolundjia, anyone who might have been or should have asked the head of the parliamentary group. Or do I have to be familiar with the material I get? Please, are you able to answer that and supplement this material before it goes to the vote? You can see and I ask you who suggested candidate Oliver Vucic, Vesna Ilic-Prelic, Katarina Manojlović-Andrić, Mikhail Rulic and Celic Dusan? These five candidates in the material have no proposings. I want you to answer me why there's no such thing as a proposal. This isn't a rhetorical question, this isn't an exaggeration, it's a matter of responsibility. If the other parliamentary groups have stopped... We said it was party, that it was wrong, that there were no criteria, we said it all several times in the Assembly, and it wasn't worth repeating, but because of the public, so people could follow the court, I guess the citizens are in charge, and they, not just us, are monitoring how future constitutional judges of the Constitutional Court are going to work... Please, I'm asking you to get into the material and publicly respond to who suggested these five candidates. Please, since Mrs. Hope Kolundji is speaking after me to answer me, if you know who suggested these five candidates, because it doesn't fit in the material. It is a matter of responsibility, to see who is responsible for these five candidates and that citizens can monitor the work of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, I ask you, Mrs. Kolundjia, to explain to me why there is no DS proposal? It was said here that you did not propose candidates because President Tadic has the right to propose those ten candidates to us. Please, it says here in the Constitution that these people are not party members. If it's such a relationship, five to five, if that's exactly how it's measured in the hair, then by proposing yourself and by not proposing candidates, you actually joined these future judges into your own parties. Well, there's a little bit of a possibility there, but if it's exactly five times five, if you've calculated it that way, means you've joined them, it's totally irrelevant then, it's breaking the law, because that's why you joined them. No more judges being party members. Otherwise, this balance would be completely comical. I ask that I be answered and entered into the material, that it be written in the Assembly who proposed these five candidates. I, as a Member, have the right to receive this notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10462	I'll try my authority to find out. I don't know, to be honest, who suggested these five candidates, but since the word has Mrs. Hope Kolundji, head of the DS parliamentary group... Here you go, Hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10463	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, of course we had great dilemmas when we approached this business of proposing and electing Judges of the Constitutional Court, given the fact that it is not clearly defined the procedure by which the National Assembly determines the list of ten candidates on the basis of which the President of the Republic elects five. So that's when we came out of our sincere intention to include all the parliamentary groups, to avoid the suspicions of party candidates, because our interest and, I believe, the interest of everyone here in the hall is that... Of course, it is also forbidden under the Constitution to be party members, but they will be party in terms of being closer or further to other parties. We tried to build common criteria by which any proposed candidate, anyone to arrive, would plead all together and try to determine those who are indisputable. Turns out we can't do that. Then the question arises, by which key who has the right to what. Turns out, as a final solution, that only in the way that there's some key to proposing that we can get to the common list. We also said then - and it is better than for the ruling coalition parties, or the ruling coalition, to propose candidates, to agree with each other and clear out that list and offer that list to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We thought it would be better if MP clubs participated in this process, so that at least we could make a small step towards an institution that would not be partying and will not be imposed on most. Some parties have not accepted participation in the business -- the SRS, the LDP, have not accepted it, and we respect it. So we have no objection to that. Those who wanted to participate in this joint project proposed candidates. That's the answer to the first question about how a list like this happened. The fact is that parliamentary groups are proposing candidates and, of course, it can always be asked whether they are closer to the party or not, but as long as that doubt remains. It remains for us to believe that they will not be party people, but will really work according to the Constitution and the law and professional knowledge. The Democratic Party, given the interest of other parliamentary groups to participate in proposing candidates, has given them a chance to participate. These are the parliamentary groups of minorities. Simply, we have given the opportunity, as we have so far given our place in delegations to smaller parliamentary groups, such as our post as vice president, to smaller parliamentary groups. It is a simple question of mutual relations with other parliamentary groups, and we want to give the opportunity for others to participate in the proposal. That is why we did not participate in proposing a list formed by the Assembly, which does not mean that we will not vote for all candidates who have proposed all the other parliamentary groups. So it's about that. Why do you think we have no legitimate right to believe that some of the candidates who have proposed other parliamentary groups should have a chance to be elected as judges of the Constitutional Court? We think we should do it. So in this limited space of building one nonpartial system this was a way, with all the shortcomings he showed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10464	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Mrs Vesna Pesic. I am obliged to respond to Mrs. Pesic that I personally participated in the proposal of two SPS candidates – Dr. Vladan Kutlesic and Master of Jadranka Injac, and we stand behind them as a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10465	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I must commend you. Your parliamentary group, the Parliament club has signed very neatly, the president of your MP club Ivica Dacic has proposed two candidates for whom you have admitted to being your candidates, but it is not necessary, because it stands, says in the material that you have proposed them. There's no dilemma about who's proposing, which party, if the parties already propose. Mrs. Nado Kolundji, I asked, since you said that the Democratic Party did not propose its candidates as a group because it wanted to give minority and other parties the same chance as it did with certain delegations. I don't think you've honestly answered my question, because then it's disproportionate -- whose five candidates are. I understand that you gave, here, the material says that one candidate, Dragan M. Stojanović, a professor from Nis, is a candidate for the G17 Plus parliamentary group. We also heard from the discussion that Zejnapu Kavrjic was the list for Sandzak proposed; yes, the minority group is slow about whether the candidate is good or not. Also, the Socialist Party of Serbia has proposed to Vladan Kutlesic and Jadranka Injac, and the situation is quite clear. However, it is not clear about the five names I have read. Who have you given this place to for good? Why is it not said, as other parliamentary clubs have done, whose names, I have read these names, these candidates, simply to be confident and that if any of them are elected we know which party proposed them, because of responsibility, because of the public, so that citizens and we ourselves can follow the future work of the Constitutional Court? So, for five places, were you so generous, you gave so much to others that you didn't want five places, you gave it to someone else? Who's the other one? We don't know who the other one is. So it's not in the material.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10466	I thank the People's Parliament to Mrs. Vesni Pesic. The word has again the folk letter of Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10467	I'm sorry, I forgot to finish by looking at the clock and being burdened with overdrive time. So what was the intention, in common, is that all the parliamentary groups that participated in the proposal really have a chance for some of these proposals to be elected by the president. So this is about the five that will be chosen. Five proposals, therefore, not to conclude in advance who will be elected, what is a fact and there is no hiding, five candidates for whom you are asking the question the parliamentary group has proposed has proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Nova Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. The reasons it doesn't say... Maybe it's actually the biggest problem that besides any candidate at all writes which parliamentary group suggested it, because our idea was for them to be common candidates. A happier solution might have been if it hadn't written any other names that the MP group suggested, because that way we would have avoided actually this, as I say, representation as if it were party people and party candidates. We wanted to avoid it. The reason why the proposings of these five proposals did not put it precisely is because there is no additional, perhaps a violent idea of being party people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10468	I thank the People's MP Nadia Kolundjia. The word is given to the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then to Esad Judžević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10469	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. I would like to repeat today that for us and for a parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs and for members of the national minorities it is offensive to mention this institution again. Please, especially ask DS representatives to forget about this institution once. In fact, representatives of national minorities on the assembly list are not based on the fact that any party has resigned those seats, but because the Democratic Party felt guilty because party president Boris Tadic proposed a disastrous list of non-members. So, because of this fact, this congregation list looks like this, not because of the generosity of the DS. So once again I ask you to forget more about this institution, this word of concession; simply, be honest and if you are talking about the congregation list then you are talking about taking these facts into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10470	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is again a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10471	The Honorable Chairman, I really apologize, I accept that the term is inadequate. It is only a basic fact that everything we have in the congregation as election seats or as representation is guided by proportions of representation in the congregation. According to these proportions, many smaller parliamentary groups have no chance of entering certain bodies or having representatives in some delegations or other forms of organisation that the Assembly has, and at that time we have always made an effort to reduce this proportion that leads to an unequal position of parliamentary groups that have fewer MPs. Only in that sense did I say it, and I accept that the expression itself is not the happiest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10472	I thank the People's Parliament to Mrs Nadia Kolundjia. The People's MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Esad Djudjevic, has the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10473	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank Mrs. Kolundjia, who has resolved a dilemma, a very large one. I realized that behind these spits had by colleagues Omerovic and Mukovic stood DS. I'm glad they're not behind this hate language that you've been promoting here since yesterday, and I'm glad that this act Mrs. Kolundji explained will not question the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. What's most important in this situation, I'd like to tell you, I'd like to call to vote for Mr. Dulic's list. I also fully understand the SRS, the LDP MPs' club, that they are like opposition parties against, but I really did not understand, until Mrs. Kolundzija explained that they could also be MPs of the Democratic Party against this list that Mr. Dulic proposed. In that case, I thank you again for this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10474	I thank the People's MP Esad Djudjevic. The word of the Rules of Procedure is sought by MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10475	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this doesn't really make sense anymore. In no way, in a single word, as you can testify, you listened and watched, I did not mention the gentleman who spoke before me, neither him nor Mr Omeragic, except that I mentioned him as a promoter. I was talking about the candidate, Miss Zejnapi Kavrajic, and her ties to the criminal structures and that she does not deserve the high trust this home needs to draw, which is to be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge. So, Mr. Judjevich, the fact that someone spit on you, like you said, is to return to one terrain that we want to escape from. I didn't mention you, nor anyone in this room since this morning from 10 o'clock and three minutes after the debate began. At least someone, as you say, spit on you. Please, and I appeal on behalf of this assembly's dignity, on behalf of the citizens and the people to whom we belong, that such an ugly light, such an ugly dictionary, and the manner of communication you're trying to make from this pay phone to show the people no more, simply because it's not the language of the people to whom we belong, it's not the language or the people you want to represent, especially the language of the people who want to have their candidate as judge of the Constitutional Court, only that it's not Miss Zejnapa Kavrajić. For the last time, I also appeal to the chairman not to give replicas to people who have not been mentioned, they are not even recognized. I didn't mention anyone's name and last name, at least I used rough and hard words, I was just talking about facts, I was just talking about what's on the agenda, I was just talking about a candidate who's under a regular number of seven on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court. And I've strictly stuck to the Rules of Procedure and what's on the agenda. Mr. Judjevich, when you're on the agenda, when I'm on the agenda, we'll talk about it. Of course, it's going to be a part of the agenda, but I'm asking you to keep your mouth shut, so you don't put the debate back on the ground that you might want. In this mud, I give you my word, and to the citizens of Serbia, you will not drag in the Sandzak Democratic Party MPs. I don't want to participate in that kind of filth that you want to impose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10476	I thank MP Meh Omerovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras appeared, and then MP Bajram Omeragic, and then has a replica, Mr. Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10477	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 101st and 143rd. First of all, I would like to join my colleague, Mr Petronivic, and my colleague Vesni Pesic, and this member 143... Because of what we've heard so far, not only because of individual candidates but because it took a few hours to hear who is proposing these five candidates who have been in the fog so far for us MPs, so we didn't know which party was proposed by these five candidates that Vesna Pesic spoke about, I think it would be best to apply Article 143 and withdraw this proposal until the heads of the parliamentary groups who proposed these candidates didn't agree, sign and agree their list. We are needlessly harassing both the public and our MPs. What's interesting here? Just look at the list of speakers on this agenda point. Only opposition MPs and three MPs from the ruling coalition belonging to one national minority reported to discuss this agenda point, in order to challenge the candidate under regular number 7. So those five candidates were, on condition, hidden, and we didn't know who suggested them, and now we heard that it was the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia. None of them answered to say a word about the candidates they proposed. This is becoming a practice. Yesterday we had a proposal from the President of the Republic, which we discussed. The explanations why these people were chosen and the criteria by which they were chosen were indeed soft and inconclusive. I think what the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs. Hope Kolundzia, just said, is best spoken of by all of this. We hid five proposals proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, we didn't want to sign them, they'll probably pass. Those ten, since the Democratic Party has not proposed anyone who goes as a proposal from the National Assembly, those ten proposed by President Tadic, are actually candidates of the Democratic Party. So, Mrs. Kolundjia, she's talking about your generosity, where you've set aside some places for minorities or smaller parliamentary groups, she doesn't drink water. This is where we need to speak openly. So, the president of the Republic gave the candidates of the Democratic Party, and we agreed that candidates of the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia do not write who they are, but they should also possibly pass Professor Stojanovic, who was proposed by the G17 Plus party. It's nothing to argue with, but then we need to talk openly, not hide.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10478	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10479	I really didn't mention anyone, and I'm not going to mention it right now, but, look, I can say one thing. I am extremely pleased that the MPs of the Democratic Party are not behind, I thank Mrs Kolundjia, the dictionaries of hate, dirt, mud and all that we have heard. We have another New Market MP here. Meho Omerovic, here, I will mention, did not grow up in the same charter with Mrs Kavrajic. We have an MP who grew up with her, a few streets are... He knows if she's a criminal, whether she's a drug dealer. I call on him to come out here and say about Mrs. Kavrjic what his colleague Omerovic mentioned, and I think the authorities will really consider what Mr. Omerovic is saying. Unfortunately, no one takes him seriously in this country. If we gathered what he said within the party of Karic, within Covic's party, within the fifth party, the eleventh party, as a member of the youth committee, as a member of the SPS, as a member of the JUL, as a member of all possible parties registered... I have a comment from the LDP, he says -- he's never been in LDP. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: He is never in the radicals. Don't say it twice. (President: I ask Mr. Omeragic to be serious in his discussion. I'm asking you to get your man who keeps your archive official confirmation here. I call you once again, we don't talk about any candidates, not to speak ugly but not at all. We believe all the political options when they stand behind those candidates that they simply know that these candidates are not candidates who have failed to meet this. Oliver Dulic read these ten names yesterday, and I hope that all the candidates Oliver Dulic has suggested will pass, because if we continue to insult this way, I don't think it's nice for this assembly and that the citizens of Serbia did not deserve to listen to such a dictionary that is not worthy of this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10480	That's right, Mr. Omeragic. The word of the Rules of Procedure has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10481	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The topic discussed today is very serious and of great importance to the state of Serbia. The fact that we will pass constitutional law, that we will have a final Constitutional Court, after almost a year, is of paramount importance. Of course, from the Serbian Radical Party we do not mind the debates of the MPs who speak about this, regardless of whether it is through replicas, whether it is through the Rules of Procedure, whether it is reporting in order of speakers. We do not think that MPs should be restricted in any way. Anyone can and should say what they think about this particular proposal and any proposal. Of course, it is surprising that MPs of the congregation do not participate in this debate. Someone noticed well earlier that there were no people on the speaker list who were supposed to stand behind these suggestions. I will speak, and we from the Serbian Radical Party will talk about the proposal of the National Assembly president when we get to the turn. We're in no hurry at all, we've got time, we're here, we're working, you're doing your job. It's nothing controversial, but it's not nice to joke about things this serious. Only for that reason did I report to Mr. Bajram Omeragic that Mr. Meko Omerovic was never a member of the Serbian Radical Party. I don't mind either, but simply since I know Meha Omerovic, he is an MP of this party or that party, irrelevantly, and the Serbian Radical Party is known for never taking anyone's parliamentary or parliamentary mandate. This is one of the reasons Meho Omerovic cannot be a member of the Serbian Radical Party -- because man is always an MP; Meso is not offended. It's simple, you tried to joke, Mr. Omeragic, but it's not a joke theme; we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court, a very serious subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10482	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti and share her opinion entirely. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Nada Kolundzi, is head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10483	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really appeal to all: here are not the subject of the People's MPs, here are the subject of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. I don't think there was anything addressed to any MP in Mr Mecca's position, but it was about the candidate. As for the Democratic Party, we respect their view that this candidate is unacceptable. In that sense, they have our support for their stand. The Democratic Party, respecting the procedure in which we participated from beginning to end, is looking for a way to reach the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court, in which the largest number of parliamentary groups in this assembly will participate, will vote for this list. Please stop now this mutual debate that came out of the context of what was the initial topic and focused on attacks on MPs. I pray it's not about that, any topic that it's about, especially when it's about people. Also, when we talk about the people we run for office, we make sure we don't hurt them, even if we don't think they're the best candidates under our criteria or that they don't meet our conditions. It is fair, and otherwise in this Serbia, we will never be able to find candidates for any single responsible function if people realize that they are really exposed to one unspeakable hack at the moment they become someone's candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10484	I thank Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Meso gave up. Thank you, Meso. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10485	Mr. Mr. Gristle, that's Article 136. Rules of Procedure. See for yourself how problems arise when there are no proposings. The one who cooked, he took the bag and ran away, and now Mrs. Hope is making us accept something illegal as legal. I don't want any part of that. I have no intention of calming anyone or of adding anything about any candidate. Given that this lady is disputed as a candidate, whether she meets the conditions to be on the list, and since I was a member of the Justice Committee in the past term, that we received different materials about individual judges, since, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you know well that I am well informed about what is going on in the country, a few days ago Mr. Petrovic has received the file of this lady, to inform you. So now that we're not hanging around here about what's true and what's not true, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you, by Article 225 and 226, before we approach Mr. Petrovic's vote, at least in writing, to let you know exactly what's going on with that candidate. Let my knowledge suggest that Meho Omerovic is right; not since yesterday that he is right, because that documentation exists in the Justice Committee since last year. Let me just give you one more detail. Former Minister Stojkovic received the documentation. I'm not talking about a candidate. I'm not talking about nobody getting in the way. I'm not saying that the candidate is good, I'm not saying that the candidate is bad, I'm just pointing to something that's indisputable and what I know. Mr. Stojkovic received extensive documentation on the candidate, and even a year and a half ago he was asked to give an interpretation of whether the candidate, which is now, could as a judge be doing some work. I'm not getting into those details. Obviously, this on Bajro and Meho can only be resolved by bringing in documentation or informing us in writing what it is. Then you solved all the problems within the coalition. I have no intention of playing St. Sava and of keeping you calm. It's not my function. For truth's sake, so something very abnormal doesn't happen. Mrs. Hope says - I don't doubt what Meso said, but respecting the procedure. What procedure? You are all referring to the procedure, and it is based on the fact that National Assembly President Oliver Dulic called and said – dictate the candidates, so the DSS gave five and those five must vote, to appoint Tadic, and these other five are for the game. Just to remind you of what I was saying yesterday... (President: I thank you, Mr. Krasic.) First League, second League. I don't want any part of it. The Serbian Radical Party does not want to participate. If we have a problem with the truth, let Mr. Petrovic in three sentences give written notice so that you all have in mind before the vote is cast.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10486	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP Milena Stankovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10487	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I said one thing and I must, first of all, correct myself. It is known that Serbian Radical Party MPs are being corrected when they are wrong. Yesterday I told the director of flight control that he had a million and three hundred thousand salaries and I deceived the MPs and the public. Last night I received information that their salary has been increased by 20% linearly, so now the director of flight control is one million and six thousand, some 100,000 less, approximately, but this is it, so I apologize to the citizens of Serbia and the MPs for the untruth I made yesterday. By the way, I'd like to inform the Minister of Justice that today at the Ministry is his strike of administrative staff, with a proposal to turn it into a general strike. That means there's gonna be a blockade of all the courts. The employees there have between nine and eighteen thousand, so let them make a small relationship with the salary of flight control directors, directors of public enterprises, etc. Let's get back to the subject. Yesterday, when we discussed that list that President Boris Tadic proposed to parliament, it is clear and unequivocal, what Mr Krasic said, five from the first league will pass. To him, of course, no matter which of those ten will pass. The store that was talked about yesterday seems not finished last night, and that's why we have today's debate, and we'll have until the end of the day, because we need to determine which five of these ten will be in the first league and which five in the second league. It's just that they're not party candidates. This isn't a job for political parties. This is where we needed prominent lawyers, as it says. But who is it to determine the prominence of certain lawyers? What kind of graduation is that going to be? Highlighted, prominent, most prominent and prominent above all prominent. Unbelievable. It leaves the possibility for the president of Serbia to choose according to a volunteer method, as he always does; those of his five will definitely get these five and then we will have ten and we will have two-thirds of the Constitutional Court and then the Constitutional Court will work, of course, because they are not, according to the report, party activists, because he cannot be a member of the party, then he will work on his conscience. Just as the current President of the Constitutional Court, while there was a farce called the Constitutional Court, Vučetic worked on his conscience. Otherwise, for four years we have no Constitutional Court and it is normal that nothing can come to the Constitutional Court, that we have over 1,000 cases before the Constitutional Court that will have to be resolved, given this law that we will adopt in the day of the vote; of course, we of the SRS will vote against this law, I suppose will be adopted. Based on this, there are now complaints that will come to this Constitutional Court. What happens if one of these judges, God forbid, dies (there are people in years) or gets sick enough that he can't perform his duties? We don't have a Constitutional Court again, because the five that the cassation court needed to propose doesn't exist. Two-thirds of the judges can make a decision, and one under two-thirds already can't. Therefore, in addition to the dilemma of who will decide whether a prominent lawyer remains and this dilemma of what will be if one of these prominent (of course, many of them under the prerogatives pointed out) cannot perform a judicial duty, again we do not have a Constitutional Court. After all, you don't need the Constitutional Court, because all of these affairs since 2000, from the "bulogoser of revolution" they should come here, they've already passed all the court cases, if there's an affair at all. I'm not talking about ministerial affairs and privatisation affairs, because so far it's not safe or initiated, so it's not possible that it came before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will come when the government changes, when some others have a majority. Let me remind you of the law... Of course, by discussing the list proposed by Parliament Speaker Mr Dulic, more specifically proposed by members, or parliamentary clubs of certain parties, to remind you that the SRS certainly did not want to participate in such courtships. You don't have an SRS candidate here. And in that, of course, I'm saying that there are honorable names on either list and on the other list, but there are names we'll never vote for. Let me remind you, say, of article 15. He says – The Constitutional Court judge is resolved if he becomes a member of the political party. Two dilemmas: first, what if he is already a member of the political party, because show me one who is not a member of the political party, and you chose him. Secondly, who will determine whether he is a member of the political party? Who will enter party documentation to say that this party is not a member of any political party, is not on the membership list of any political party. This is fog. Each candidate of these 10, or 20, is a member of a political party. I don't think there are two that aren't members. But the other part of the dilemma – and the NGOs? NGOs are organizations that make us 90 percent of these laws, diverse, how you like to beat them, en-ji-o, bring laws and pass them and put them before the MPs. NGOs are doing the work of the government and running this country's policy. Unfortunately, but the fact. Therefore, he may be a member of any NGO that will stretch out, and just one of these days he is also stretching out the National Assembly and MPs of the National Assembly by means of information, absolutely unnecessary, but that is their job. All these NGOs are either financed from abroad, and they are mostly parasites and live on behalf of this country and citizens. We're going back to why they need obedient judges of the Constitutional Court. A member of the 45th law we discussed says at point 8 - prohibits the work of a political party, union organisation, association of citizens or religious community. There's, not to say, a catch, there's what needs a ruling structure and a president from across the street. All political parties that are not at the democratic will of the ruling coalition or at the will of the other side will be struck by the Constitutional Court and there will be banning. The reason is very easy to find. In the environment, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, constitutional courts do not have this point 8). More specifically, the Constitutional Court may discuss the programme, the statute of the party, the statute of the association of citizens, trade union or any other, on the programme of the Association of Citizens, and put it out of force, or force the political party or association of citizens to bring it into line with the laws. No, it can't be here. This is where we forbid it. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the democracy you've been talking about for seven or eight years? The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against banning any political party from working. The only court on the work of the political party is the court of the people in the election, the court of voters in the elections. It can't be decreed, because then it's absoluteism. That's why they need an obedient president, and apparently the ruling coalition, they need obedient judges of the Constitutional Court, and then the interpretation will be... Like this former President of the Constitutional Court, who Mr Batic has said has been receiving the president's salary for 13 months, because his pension is small, and then he will be able to express his views on the constitutionality or non-constitution of a project, whether it's a bill or something else, whether it's a political party's position, whether it's a decree, however, he will always find himself elected and invited to comment and, of course, he will always comment on the party that proposed it. I will have to cut short because there are a lot of Serbian Radical Party speakers who will explain further why the SRS will not vote for many of these candidates. I have one further dilemma left, purely personal, and to discuss: when one of the previous speakers spoke to the ambassadors, he listed five political parties, just to clarify whether it was a new coalition formed in the National Assembly, and we MPs do not know, or were these MPs who had changed five, six or seven parties since 2000?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10488	The word has a national MP, Milena Stankovic, and let the MP Mujo Mukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, all said yesterday about the problem of a lack of procedure for electing the Constitutional Court judges, as a consciously left legal void, which could later be filled with a coalition agreement, applies today. If we follow the definition that the procedure is actually equal to democracy, then we can say that the way we decided to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court is not democratic. What's new today compared to yesterday's discussion is the knowledge of the biography of some of the candidates we're deciding on today. One of the candidates was told from this pay phone that she was a member of the JUL in the 1990s, and the towers say that some other candidates can boast that they had members of the SPS in their biography; that's what the SPS members say, and I would invite them to confirm my statements from the pay phone. It is very important that MPs who will decide who will be the judge of the Constitutional Court can properly give themselves up. This is not a lonely case that as candidates for certain functions in certain institutions today, people who in the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, in the 1990s, had active participation, made important decisions that resulted in our living the way we lived. I remind you that the LDP parliamentary group reacted very strongly when we had Mr Balinovac here as a representative of the Government Act, when Mrs Ćatovic was a candidate for auditor at the audit institution. What's being imposed as a solution and what didn't happen, and it had to happen that we wouldn't do it again every time we chose certain faces on certain functions, we had this problem, is that no lustration was done. LDP lustration insists. Our Parliament Speaker, Mr Oliver Dulic, promised, when he took office as speaker of parliament, that he would help meet all conditions for the lustration to be carried out in this parliament. Unfortunately, we've been active for almost a year, and we haven't moved one step in that direction. What is necessary for Serbia right now is a fair and free Constitutional Court, a Constitutional Court whose judges will be independent, which will not be party listeners and who will personally stand behind all these decisions they make. Knowing that some candidates have previously participated in policy-making in the 1990s only leads us to doubt that they will be able to do so, confirms that at this point in Serbia, it is happening that people who are the policy-holders of the 1990s appear in institutions, and that in the political life of those ideas are increasingly implemented in the 1990s. What we could see today, as regards mutual replication by the Rules of Procedure of members of the ruling majority who are from different political parties and members of the same people, who questioned the moral credibility of one of the candidate judges of the Constitutional Court, is at the very least scandalous. So, all that was happening this morning made me feel very bad and ashamed to be a part of all this, but it confirmed again what the LDP has been saying all along in this House, which is that this ruling majority that is leading the country is very unstable at this point, unherent, and, which is very important, the government is divided by so-called. The feudal principle. What I can see is that the MPs of one party are unable to defend the candidates of the other party, that no one here will make it clear who his candidates are, what these candidates are recommending to perform such an important function in this country, so that I have been asked as a question, and I believe the citizens who have seen this today, what it is that still holds together all these political parties that are currently making up the ruling majority in Serbia. What keeps them together is a personal interest. This does not mean that I immediately fence myself, I may be an idealist, but I really believe that there are people among the representatives of the government who are really here because they want things to move forward, but generally, not that we are standing in place, but that Serbia is going backwards every day. What happened here today is one big step back, and it confirms how much change Serbia needs, how much Serbia needs elections, and when LDP says -- we want elections at all levels, it says because we feel it as a need for Serbian citizens at this point. Every day we see that there are strong centres of power that affect government policy, which do not deal with citizens' interests. I am convinced that in these elections, whenever they are, whatever elections are called, citizens will also punish those who are policymakers as currently being led and all those who agree to that policy. What I'd like to say is that because of all this that happened today in parliament, because we don't believe in these candidates, we don't believe in the way that came to the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, the LDP will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10490	I thank the MP Milena Stankovic. The replica was reported by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, and then there's a word from the People's Messenger Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10491	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must respond to the mention of the SPS, including the JUL in a negative context, in the sense that if someone was once a member of the SPS or the JUL, it in itself excludes the quality of the candidate who should be in the constitutional court. We as SPS members have the right, first of all, to evaluate that fact that someone once was, so now he hasn't, so he's changed five or six parties, so he changes attitudes and that we're talking about maybe political converts and that we're estimating the morality of it, etc. Taking the fact that the SPS, namely that someone was a member of the SPS or of JUL, is in itself something negative and something that is a lower system of values than someone's system of values that distances it, means nothing. The value systems are very relative. And we, on the other hand, could, in a negative context, talk about some systems of value that are being imposed here, that are beyond our borders, from other centres of power, and that are saying that Serbia needs to be exposed or broken down in a national sense, in terms of losing national identity, etc. We had a fact, for example. that the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who represented the law was Mr Balinovac, so here it is said, from this pay phone - where is he allowed to come to this house, to this assembly? Anyone who was once a member of the JUL and the SPS and everyone else can come to this congregation because all citizens are equal. Therefore, this discrimination, and the marking of people by political membership, is discrimination, which should not be a characteristic of democratically-oriented citizens, and at least of the MPs representing this people in Serbia. Therefore, I ask you to make sure in this regard that we respect everyone's individuality, everyone's right to political commitment, and the SPS is certainly not something that is overcome and that is negative. The SPS has its identity and has its own perspective which is reflected in what it is to represent the widest layers of citizens and the interests of Serbia and all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10492	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger Mujo Mukovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Slobodan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10493	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a problem today that in the absence of a procedure we have before us a proposal for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges that the National Assembly should establish, therefore, a list of ten of which the President of the Republic should choose. I'm really sorry that the president of the assembly had to put his signature on this proposal, on the proposal of this list, and he doesn't really know what kind of candidates it is. When it comes to other candidates, I don't want to talk about them, since I don't know people personally. I just want to say in principle, when it comes to representatives of individual minority national communities here, we have a perfectly correct proposal for a parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs. From the very biography that is given here and what is written in it, it is evident that it is Professor Dr. and that it is a serious candidate. What she's been doing shows that she has extremely good references. We support such candidates, regardless of nationality. Nationality can't be the only quality. You can't keep someone hiding behind it, so it's a candidate and these national communities, and it has to pass. If he's a criminal, he doesn't have to pass, if it's true, and we know quite reliably that what his colleague Krasic was saying is that there's a file for a candidate under regular number seven and we know what's in that file. Because of the level of this debate here, we really don't want to present these details, no matter how harshly we reject this proposal and ask the promoter to withdraw this proposal from the procedure. We can't because of the dignity of the National Assembly, because of our personal dignity, and at the end of the day and the dignity of the promoter, because it stands for Oliver Dulic's signature, unfortunately, on this list of papers we've received. We won't, unless we're forced to, present those details. There are serious obstacles to Zejnapa Kavrjic being a candidate on this list at all. The very biography delivered here by Miss Zejnapa Kavrajić is very unseriously written. That, in my opinion, is another insult to this high house, because one candidate for the Constitutional Court was supposed to write a little bit more from his biography. We see here that she was born in 1951, that she graduated from the Faculty of Law in Pristina, that most of her working age worked in the economy and that during the time JUL was incomparable in this country she was elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar, and later for the District Court judge in Novi Pazar. We have a phenomenon here that not only do we have a party candidate, but we have a multiparty candidate, given that she was a prominent member of the JUL. Her native sister Zuvra was the president of the JUL for Novi Pazar, and today she is the director of Ugljanin's regional television, which is all but a public service to the citizens of Novi Pazar municipality. Now that there's been this transformation that she becomes the fist of the Sandzak List, one of the most prominent people since Sulejman Ugljanin's trust, it's not up to us to discover. There may be some answers in that file Mr Krasic mentioned earlier. We believe that for these reasons and for all the more massive calls from the citizens of Novi Pazar and the environment, because of calls from lawyers who even made a joke this morning when they invited us to the Parliament club and asked us not to prevent her choice, because at least the New Market judiciary would heal if she got out of Novi Pazar and was elected, even if it was her promotion. Ninety percent of the cases ruled by Ms. Kavrjic in the role of defence include one lawyer (for their relationship with the citizens of Novi Pazar, they know, given that it is a relatively small town); a verdict is agreed in advance, and then they share the money that the lawyer takes from the clients for their compensation. Here it's skillfully tried to impose a dilemma that we are against the candidate who is Bosniak. That's the most decisive thing I have to deny. I just got off the phone with the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, I said why we don't have a candidate, although we have three members of the Sandzak Democratic Party. Simply, at the level of the heads of the parliamentary clubs, a decision was made that was not in line with the Constitution – that only parliamentary groups could propose candidates, and then the Democratic Party parliamentary group, because of some of its interests, agreed with other parliamentary groups, gave up the opportunity to propose at all, so that we were denied that we had a candidate. But that's not why we're against this candidate. If the Sandzak List had proposed a candidate who was qualified and who deserves to be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, we would certainly have voted for him. After all I have heard here, I also call upon the MPs of the DS and MPs with whom we, the Sandzak Democratic Party, are in the same parliamentary club to think carefully and that they may request this file from the minister of justice, Mr Petrovic, not because of us, but because of themselves; to consider whether they can vote for a candidate under regular number seven, Ms Zejnep Kavrajić, to be a candidate at all and to go from this high house as a proposal for the President of the Republic. I'm sure that, finally, she can't be elected judge of the Constitutional Court, and that may be the only good news we can send from these speakers to citizens who are interested in this issue. Also, on several occasions, it has tried to manipulate who has the right to represent certain national communities or national minorities. Let me remind you, this is about election law at the level of the Republic, about the election of MPs. The fact that a natural threshold has been introduced is very commendable. We were looking for it back in that first session, when the DOS coalition here had a majority. This is because of the reduction of mandates, and it was not possible to come to the agenda. Then, in the last term, the congregation majority voted for it, and that is for every commendation. However, this must not be misused. The right to use a natural threshold does not mean obligation. That right, if it meant commitment, would force national minorities into ghettos and would ban them from other types of political organisation, from creating and forming coalitions with other political parties. That wasn't the legislator's intention back then. Here we have certain political options that have come out in such a way that no one is slow, they have barely received two mandates, specifically the Sandzak List, which is about 30,000 votes, and in the Republic of Serbia there are about 120,000 Bosniak votes. So they are no longer such a political factor as they were in the 1990s, and that is obviously difficult for them, but here they are trying to present themselves as the only legitimate representatives of the Bosniak people. It will not be possible, because the Sandzak Democratic Party, which has three parliamentary mandates here, has brought over 55,000 votes to the DS-Boris Tadic electoral list, and the rest of the votes have been taken by other civil parties in this country, which is also their legitimate right to fight for it. So we just have to respect the facts and act accordingly. Finally, I would like to call once again on this candidate's proposals under regular number 7, given that they, as MPs belonging to the minority club, had the right to propose a candidate, to really think seriously and to withdraw this proposal, in order to agree and, if necessary, to propose to the national communities, to propose a common candidate behind whom we will all be able to stand up and to have the Bosniak community represented in this proposal. I'm sure this candidate won't make it. I said, we can't support it and most resolutely reject the thesis that we are against the Bosniak candidate. We're against a bad candidate, regardless of nationality. We couldn't suggest that I do it again, because the DS Parliament Club, which we belong to, has given up proposing these candidates. But it's not even a last chance. There is a chance to choose a Bosniak in the Supreme Court, in other high court cases, and no drama should be made out of it. The most important thing is that such bad candidates, such as Zejnapa Kavrjic, would not be the best if they were neither candidates nor the topic of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10494	The word is made by MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Bajram Omeragic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I've come to the floor to explain a little bit better what I wanted to say, because I don't think my SPS colleague understood what I wanted to say. The LDP's problem is that individual prominent function holders from the 1990s are now re-emerged in Serbia's political life, by being former SPS or JUL MPs, and now mostly by DSS and New Serbia. When we talked about Mr. Balinovac, we pointed out that he was a member of JUL, and then he appeared here as someone who represented the Government Act. I will remind you, he also wrote the Law on Terrorism, whose task was to calculate the most harsh with children who were active in the Resistance movement, who later played a very important role in the five-octobaric changes that, at least for some of the citizens of this country, are very important. As LDP MPs and representatives of civil Serbia, we had an obligation to act on its appearance. It was also with Mrs Ćatovic, the candidate of New Serbia for the audit institution. What was very important to me to say is that I understand that people change and change their political attitudes, but what seems to me is that there has not been a change of political attitude here, but simply that these people appear in one regime, and then in another regime, for one reason only, and that is because they are obedient and carry out tasks. I think it's very moral to believe in an idea, to stay consistent with that idea, to stand up for it, to fight for it, and at the moment when it's unpopular and when it seems that it doesn't have any perspective. That's why I have much more respect for the SPS MPs sitting here today and who remained consistent with the ideas they believed in back then, than these people who are always getting along, find a place for themselves in the system, constantly find a way, driven by their own personal interests to be the bearers of some important functions. If someone felt hurt, it really wasn't my goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10496	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bajram Omeragic has the word. Mr. Omeragic, please be careful when it comes to time. After you there's a word, by order, Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10497	Dear People's MPs, I must really say that I had an experience 15 minutes ago that I've never really experienced. National MP Meho Omerovic approached me and told me that this is not Novi Pazar and that the dark will swallow me in Belgrade because of what I'm saying. That's why I'm informing all state authorities that if anything happens to me, they know what this is about. He said that here in Belgrade, the dark will swallow me, that this is not my New Market and that there is no one here to watch over me. Meso Omerovic told me, are you listening? (President: Mr. Omeragic, don't hesitate. I was surprised because I didn't really experience it. Here in this assembly we have had various controversys and in different ways, but that the MP is threatened to be swallowed dark here in Belgrade... That's why I immediately came out here in the hallway and Mrs. Nadia Kolundzija, as head of the parliamentary club, told Boris Tadic to pass it on as president of the list and as president who is obliged to take care of the constitutionality and legality and security of this country. So once again, I call upon all the state authorities to know that if the dark swallows me, they know what it is. I tell you what he told me. If I was afraid, I wouldn't be doing this job, but I want to tell you another thing. On a proposal whether someone would withdraw a list of candidates or not, I would like to repeat this place again – Mrs Kolundzhija, as head of the DS parliamentary group, eventually reiterated that the DS parliamentary group would vote for the entire list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10498	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10499	I expected you to hear anything from Mr. Omeragic, but this really went too far. It's just that, Mr. Omeragic, it seems to me that at 12:30 a.m., it was dark on your eyes. Everyone who knows me very well – and there are many MPs in this room with whom I have had the pleasure and opportunity, whether I agree or not, but six or seven years to do my job, as successful or not, it is not up to us to judge – that I am a man who rarely swears, rarely insults, a man who does everything in life just doesn't serve threats. So I'm really amazed that you, in the lack of arguments that would serve to defend the candidate whom you have proposed, who we've heard everything and everything but nothing good... You haven't said anything about your candidate, you haven't said a good word about your candidate, and we've heard from almost all the parliamentary groups in this assembly that this candidate, Zejnapa Kavrajic, behind whom you stand as a promoter, is at least a very controversial candidate. So instead of talking about the candidate, you point out the benefits of the candidate you're allegedly behind, you, Mr. Omeragic, are making it up, and that's not the first time. You abuse this pay phone to accuse me of something that's really monstrous, something that's really scary. This time I'm upset by the fact that you're ready to go, Mr. Omeragic. What you're doing is nothing but pure manipulation. If I ask you what your candidate is like, you say someone changed two or three parties. If I'm saying that your candidate has been communicating with criminals, you're saying I didn't grow up in New Market. If I claim that your candidate releases drug dealers from Kosovo, you say -- we don't know who's behind Meh Omerovic. Mr. Omeragic, I'd like to ask you that during today's debate, you're talking about a candidate who seems to deserve to be judge of the Constitutional Court, and where I grew up, where I was born, it's probably a private matter for all of us. In this hall sits many fellow MPs who were not born in Novi Pazar, or Belgrade, who were not even born in Serbia, but are Serbian citizens, they are my distinguished fellow MPs, whom I respect and appreciate, who I often disagree with, but I respect and appreciate them. So we're all equal here, Mr. Omeragic. You started counting the cities where he was born and who he grew up in. It's a shame, Mr. Omeragic. It's another piece of evidence that you abuse and degrade this tall home, which should elect candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, including the one you're proposing. So, I'm not ashamed of the fact that I was born in Gorazd in eastern Bosnia, I'm not ashamed of the fact that I grew up there, I don't deny it, nor am I ashamed to be a member of several political parties, but you, Mr. Omeragic, should know that you're running for the man who stole from the elections, to run for a person who has these connections, a fat relationship with the criminal environments, which is evidence. That's what this is about, Mr. Omeragic. As far as protection is concerned, so-called. Threats, Mr. Omeragic, I know you don't have a problem with that. You're sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia. What quality you're sitting in, I really don't know. Minister Jocic is very close to you, looking for protection freely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10500	Mr. Bajram, no one can beat you, be sure, don't answer again, please. I'm behind what I just said. No one can touch you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10501	To begin with if anyone was born somewhere, and where he was born and what he was born... Please take a stenogram and see if I asked to determine where Meho Omerovic was born. I never mentioned where Mr. Meho Omerovic was born, nor did I ever ask for it. Get a stenogram, check it out. (President: Back on topic, please. ) Vice President, please let me just answer the man and return to the topic, because he didn't talk about the subject and you didn't interrupt him. It wasn't about where Meho Omerovic was born, you let him speak. If that's it, he's the one who told the lie. Get a stenogram, bring it here, we've got a service. Did I ask to determine if Meho Omerovic was born in Novi Pazar? I didn't ask for it, I just said there's another New Pazar MP in the O.R., who was only born a few blocks from Miss Kavrajić and he says if she's a drug dealer. That's all I said. Neither did I say that Meho Omerovic was born in this city or that city, I am perfectly interested in where he was born, nor did I ever deal with it, and that is not true. So I'm saying, we have no reason as a minority group to withdraw this proposal, because our candidate meets all the conditions. Whether he will pass depends on the MPs, whether he will stand behind that candidate. We are just once again pleased that Mrs. Kolundjia, as head of the DS parliamentary group, has confirmed that they will vote for all ten candidates and I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10502	The People's Messenger, Slobodan Marash, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10503	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the time left for the LDP parliamentary group, I would not repeat everything we have said in the past days or two, whenever it comes to candidates who were at the previous point, as well as candidates who are under point 3 of our session. The only thing I could possibly add is that I really don't think it's appropriate for the National Assembly to propose ten candidates of which we're going to choose five, that we're aware that we're choosing the Constitutional Court judges for nine years, and that at least four of them meet the conditions for retirement in the next year, two, three or five. I think we're making a mistake at first. We know well that we don't have the Supreme Court of Cassation, that we're not going to choose five judges from there, that we're going to start with ten judges instead of 15, and when in a year or two, one or two judges retire again, we're going to have a blocked court. I think that the fact should be taken into account, as well as the fact that there is one candidate who is indeed, based on this debate we have heard so far, extremely controversial. I am not going into whether this is all true or not, it needs someone to determine, but I think it would be good for this proposal that we received from the president of the Assembly on behalf of certain parliamentary groups that have given their candidates to withdraw, to agree, first and foremost, on the ruling coalition, and thus we can join the fourth item of the agenda and after the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10504	The word of the Messenger of the people is Munir Poturak; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10505	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr. Bajram Omeragic called me a neighbor and I was born a few blocks from Miss Zejnape Kavrajić, a small correction: I was born in the shadow of meadows near Novi Pazar. What I would like you to know, first of all, fellow MPs, is that what I want Ms. Zejnapa Kavrajić to hear is that both Mr. Bajram Omeragic and Mr. Esad Djudžević have deceived and deceived her. They promised her that she would be a secure member, one of these ten candidates, would be elected among the five judges of the Constitutional Court, guaranteed. They haven't shown her how to do a biography that could bring her to an even level with the other candidates we see here. The example works, Miss Zejnapa Kavrajić is certainly watching this, the candidate of the duchy group is Professor Dr Agnes Kartag-Odri. I'm sorry if I misread it, but her biography is on two densely typed sides. The biography of the Sandzak list, or minority group, proposed by Mr Balint Pastor, is in three ranks. If by any chance these two ladies were the pilots of this assembly, please, and we have to drive, choose which plane you're going to fly in and choose who's going to drive us, who's going to fly that plane. I don't think Bajram Omeragic or Esad Djudjevic would get on that plane. That's one thing. The second thing, the invisible thing that should be visible, is what happened from Friday to yesterday and today, every day, see how Mr. Bajram Omeragic is called on the record from this pay phone, that in every address, in every public appearance, in all newspapers, they never mentioned Mrs. Zejnap Kavrajić, but they called on police, state institutions to respond to the Islamic community in Novi Pazar, led by Mr. Muamer Zukorlic. There's a catch. Yesterday, Mr. Bajro, or Esad, excuse me, said they should elect a Bosniak judge to defend the Islamic community. What Islamic community? Which Islamic community are they representing down there? That's the point. They cook downstairs, and now they don't know how to get out. Give Zejnap Kavrajić a push, she will defend this institution. Not only that, to be invisible, please, Bajram Omeragic came out here several times, a few sentences are very important. Why? He calls us from the Sandzak Democratic Party to speak with hate speech. He's repeated it several times. Such sentences are finished and said – Mrs Nada Kolundzija came out of here and confirmed that the Democratic Party should confirm and confirm the list of ten candidates. These two statements will be repeated a million times on regional television in Novi Pazar tonight so that citizens of Novi Pazar and those watching regional television, members, fans of the Sandzak List, say, uh, these three are against Bosniaks, the Democratic Party protects us, rejected them. The whole message is that way and that's what it comes down to. You know, none of the opposition parties in Novi Pazar have access to regional television, and that's why these messages are being sent here, because we don't have the opportunity to say anything and challenge what we say here. That's why messages like this are sent from this pay phone. I am really sorry that either as a Bosniak, either as a citizen of Serbia, I am ousting this pay phone in such a way that the minorities, unfortunately, yesterday and today above all Bosniaks, are usurping and stressing their problem, but I am not really sorry because since the beginning of the Sandzak Democratic Party, our President Rasim Ljajic has announced in order to reconcile and resolve the conflict below. Unfortunately, many of them here today say they won't interfere, and they're getting in a lot of trouble, so now they'd like to wash their hands. I care, my parents live downstairs, my parents are Hadji, my friends, my friends, my family, all those who live downstairs are my faith and my friends, regardless; we simply can't forget and let the people down there solve for themselves. If some of this stuff is poured on the fire that exists, it would be up to us 250 to provide some kind of help, you need help when it's hard, you should help. People here have had a chance to show the parliament whether they interfere or not. Please, as much as you think this pay phone is usurped by minorities, you realize that the problem down there is serious. I care because I live down there, I care, and there is responsibility for all of us individually. I expected and I felt myself as someone who could enlarge from this pay phone all the people in Serbia, touch each other in the heart to give each other positive energy to move forward. I'm sorry, I really can't let the information that's being presented differently in Pazar get a different charge from here, and there's a terrible reflection down there, and here in Belgrade and in the state institutions, they say we won't interfere. Those two arches shouldn't exist. In that case, Bosniaks get any cheerleaders, as they say, passions get a different picture. I want to point this out to you now that you know, the different information and meaning of the Bosniak thinking in that direction is happening. People simply say that this is where it's cooked, with thesis - fight it out and rule it out. There's a riot between one and the other, and then there's a reflection down there, and it's being handled from here, and there's people down there who aren't happy. Who needs such a problem in this situation in Serbia now? I am sincerely convinced, I am sending this message to the Bosniaks downstairs, there are no two percent of Bosniaks in Serbia's government interest in cooking down and making a problem. There are certain personal interests of individuals who, due to their economic interests, because of what Mr. Zukorlic managed to defend as an Islamic institution and values, appear as local tycoons, to organize the entire heifer in that direction and to cook. But I'm telling you, believe me, I'm giving up my parliamentary immunity for everything I tell you, that there are arguments, that I own them here, all the documentation of everything that's going on and in the Parliament itself from the moment that a decision is made in the local parliament itself to set up a representative office in Algeria. Is there a city in Serbia to set up a representative office in Algeria or outside this country? In turn, I'm not talking about many of the manipulations that are happening down here, to these here who are trying to picture themselves to the citizens of Serbia and down to their fans in Sandzak. Don't close your eyes, please, don't pretend there's no problem, don't just let down there create a much bigger problem that exists, because with dry and raw burning. Please pay attention to how important it is now to react. The bond between this proposal and all these things exists, incredibly close and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10506	I thank the People's MP Munir. Omeragic, please return to your seat and don't take your word for it. Please, get back to your seat, you're not up, get back to your seat, you're the most undisciplined member of Parliament here so far. Sit down, there's someone before you. You come and take your word for it. Please, sit down. First Mr Mukovic answered the word, then Bajram Omeragic, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10507	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the chairman, on behalf of the Sandzak Democratic Party MPs at this moment, I say we will interrupt this debate on this candidate, we will no longer appear on this agenda, we have spent too much valuable time. This woman doesn't deserve to be spent this much time. She won't be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. We apologize to everyone once again, and we don't want any more, no matter what our political opponents continue to say, to participate in this and invite everyone to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10508	I thank MP Muja Mukovic. The word is made by MP Bajram Omeragic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10509	Article 101. We've heard here against this candidate, who's been raised by a hack, here, for two days, so many ugly words, so many slanders, so many lies, so much nebulos, so much, instead of coming, to bring a criminal report, to bring a verdict here for a pay phone, to tell us if it's a drug dealer, a lady, or we're talking here from a pay phone of colorful lies, fiction, vomit and what we haven't heard about these two days. As for whether someone is going to play something on regional television, all those interested in the Assembly sitting at home watching congregation debates, but they're going to set up on Bosniak TV for me and Esad Djudjevic; you can do that when you come to Novi Pazar to watch, make cartoons, there, like, we're driving some trucks, so that truck goes out there somewhere, kicks, and then the bus hits. I understand, Mr. Poturak has buses and stuff; whether they did it for him or for me, I don't know, but I didn't even do it to the RadioDifusing Council, write, install it, install it to see, for example, and I would invite Mr., here, Pourka to find me something like that that that she did regional television for him, or for some other MP or anyone else in New Pazar. The Bosniak TV is spinning a 24-hour video where Mr. Judjevic and I are driving some bus, some vans, and we come across something, so boom, and we're going to some break-in. The broadcasting board hasn't performed its function yet, but I've never wanted to talk about it before. That's ridiculous. I'm glad you're laughing at the subject. It's about that. I just want to say once again, I urge all MPs to have whoever has something against this candidate, have a criminal record, a verdict, some document, come out here for this pay phone and show the MPs in this assembly a verdict against the lady, a criminal report, established, some sort of indictment. You're contesting Miss, and you don't have any documents. Isn't that a shame? You can't fight us with the Democratic Party. We were in the coalition with the Democratic Party before you. We were on the Democratic Party's parliamentary list before you. So that's when you criticised us for what we're looking for on the Democratic Party list. We were on the Democratic Party list because there was no law that allowed minorities to have a minority list. We are today a minority list and we represent minorities from the minority list. I don't think that's forbidden. That's what this law allowed us to do. I don't see why we're so excited about using our rights. The president of the assembly confirmed that we had proposed a candidate at his invitation. He told us - all parliamentary groups, give the candidate. We've proposed a candidate. You won't vote for that candidate. Don't vote. What's the matter? The other will vote, inform us the head of the parliamentary group that they will vote and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10510	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10511	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to members 104, 225 and 226. There is in this debate, which could otherwise be legitimate, one serious feller. Both parties, which are legitimate parties and representatives of the Bosniak people, participate in the authorities and form a parliamentary majority that has chosen and supported the government of the Republic of Serbia. These questions are so-called. previous political issues and previous parliamentary majority issues, which are being discussed before coming here with proposals that we are talking about in one way or another. It's never snowed to cover the hill. It's the devil to find a clue. There are now relations between these two political parties that have the legitimate right to fight for the electoral body in this region, but in a way that is unprincipled and, I must say, at moments below the level of dignity of these people. I know by name and last name several thousand Bosniaks. So please, don't hurt those wonderful people. They don't deserve that. I remember a time when Novi Pazar functioned as follows: the authorities were, as it is said, the efendija Salih Pristevac, better known as Thaci. Anyone who doesn't know how to manage one town can ask him, him and Aca Djokić and Alje Beširjevic, Koče Fuad and Milenko Kovacevic and other people who led Novi Pazar and each year brought him 78% – it is now called local transfers for local self-government, and it was once a fund for underdeveloped people; each year it was built one factory: "TK Raška", "Ras", "Vesna" - Sjenica, "Vojin Popović" and others. It helps to ensure that these people function normally, build their paths and schools. Now, respected Bosniaks, dear friends, charge you hard every foot of asphalt in Novi Pazar, what they do to you will come out on your nose. You don't deserve it, so I ask you, all of you, and all of these people upstairs, to put down the ball, not to manipulate your voices, so that 50 or 100,000 votes don't bleed people so they can't make peace anymore. So this isn't about selecting the Constitutional Court judges. This is about whether one religious community will be or not be unique, whether it will be with that Islamic community or with another, this is about manipulating people who live up there. The new Pazar is not down, he is up, according to Cvijic's principle, respect the streams of rivers, Raška springs up and pours himself into the Ibar River below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10512	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Let MP Slavko Jerkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10513	Ladies and gentlemen, from Romans to today, I do not believe, and since the creation of modern Serbia in its history, there has been no greater scandal than this scandal that broke out in the Republic of Serbia and the drama is taking place in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia over a proposal to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have indicated that a great battle is being fought in the direction of rule of justice. What happens with the choice of the Constitutional Court judges looks like one very unserious thing, and the Constitutional Court is also that the serious thing and the Constitutional Court cannot decide the parties sitting on the galleries, on the sidelines or on the side chairs. Political parties have decided to elect the Constitutional Court to be on their own and on their dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court is the highest-ranking institution that must decide on the constitutionality and legality of individual and general acts, and on the other hand, to decide whether the laws passed by parliament and other state bodies are in agreement with the highest legal act - the Constitution. What is the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen? The constitution is the guarantee of freedom, the guarantee of democracy, the constitution is trampled, the constitution is broken, the constitution is passed and someone will consider it as until the 17th century that the kings in England thought that an act or a democratic movement to be a promotion, and that it would not be the Constitution of toilet paper, the SRS will soon bring a constitution that will guarantee freedom to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also be in agreement with all standards of international constitutional and democratic law and all other rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of judicial independence... I don't want to talk about candidates individually. It's a picture and an opportunity of the promoter. Whoever is elected will have to stand behind the list, defend it while it is in office and during his term. I'm afraid that right after the election, there will be many affairs and scandals over this kind of election of candidates, and I'm not talking about the possible affairs of the candidates you're proposing. Ladies and gentlemen, if what the papers say is true, will you choose the President of the Constitutional Court of the one who had a car accident and who killed one person without spending the day in prison? Will you do it? What do you think, if it were an ordinary citizen and a mortal of Serbia, that he would go without five years in prison? If you choose like that, you know what's waiting for you. The Serbian Radicals will tell you that they warned you in time and that you must provide the list in time to the MPs, that you must raise your hands from the judiciary, that you must raise your hands from the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court must be independent, and particularly independent of the executive authority. This is the biggest problem when it comes to the Constitutional Court, and it is also a big problem when it comes to other judicial institutions, from law enforcement authorities, municipal court, district court, Supreme Court, trade court and senior court, all the way to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll remind you, I believe the lawyers know, but here's to reminding you not to forget. What are the challenges of judicial independence? The concept of judicial independence? The judges, ladies and gentlemen, are independent if they are not required to perform their duties, except to respect the law and follow their own conscience. In order for the judge to be truly independent, his personal independence must be fully achieved. Under that concept, I mean such legal regulation of the court position, the appointment, the election, the advances in service, immunity, disciplinary responsibilities, layoffs, transfers, which lead to the minimum possibility of members, please be careful what I think, executive authorities, that, through decision-making, the judges do not depend on the executive authority, that the executive authority does not affect their behaviour in the exercise of judicial office. Therefore, the duration and function of the judicial service are thus provided in international parallel law that individual judges, or the judiciary in general, are not under the control of the executive authority, i.e. Governments are currently in power. When it comes to the responsibility of the judges, ladies and gentlemen, I was still in favour in 1999 and 2000, while working in the Republic and federal ministries, to pass a law on the disciplinary responsibility of judges and prosecutors. Why? It's in parallel right. This is what you have in EU countries. For what? To ensure respect for the law and law enforcement by judges and prosecutors. This disciplinary responsibility, above all, ensures that they must be handled by illegal decisions. How many hundreds of millions of dinars since 2000 were paid from their budget by the Republic of Serbia today to the damaged citizens who were innocent, who were in custody, were eventually released, without being held accountable by the one who conducted the case, the prosecutor who launched the investigation does not answer the judge who conducted the investigation, does not respond to the judge who tried, nor does the judge who was the judge who was on trial, and ultimately the acquittal falls. Just one small example, in the Kovin Municipal Court, a decision was made where the state had to pay 500,000 because an innocent person was deprived of freedom and against him led by criminal proceedings, but was eventually released. Now the state has to pay that compensation only for the costs of the proceedings that have been conducted for years, 500,000 dinars, and that judge and prosecutor are not responding. A law should be passed in which both the judge and the prosecutor, whether he was the Constitutional Court, will have to bear full material and criminal responsibility, and disciplinaryly, for the decisions he makes. I remind you, in the 9th century, it was no accident that the Saxon king made a decision to hang 40 judges for making illegal decisions, because hundreds and hundreds of people were killed and shot for not taking care of the decisions he made, whether they were in accordance with the law or not. Ladies and gentlemen, this man in Covin I'm talking about died. It is questionable that the consequences of the conduct of the criminal proceedings are likely the cause of his death. What do you think, in some criminal cases, especially during the Sabela action... So let's search "Sabbe" action, see 12,500 people who are deprived of freedom and who have been harassed, who have been threatened to be punished and sentenced by death, those who have been released, and you have no 10-20 indictments or 10-20 convictions that are justly condemned. Someone has to answer, hundreds of millions, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds and hundreds of millions of states from their budget and taxpayers have to pay those who were innocently deprived of freedom, harassed and executed torture. It's not forgotten. In addition, we have to ask the question which are the judges, who are the prosecutors, who is the prosecutor who, on a reasoned proposal, gave the investigating judge to include the most dangerous means, the most dangerous ones, are the guns, which are the means of listening. Citizens, political parties and political opponents, MPs are being tapped. What are we gonna do about it? I will ask a question and ask the President of the Assembly, Mr Vice President, to write this down and send me an answer: in how many cases have there been listening in the Republic of Serbia from 12 March 2003 until today, which the prosecutor issued a warrant and a reasoned proposal to the investigating judge to make a decision following the approval of the President of the Supreme Court to listen or search the secret mail and other means of communication of citizens? Who made the decision, which the investigative judge, name and last name, because in the next election in the re-election we don't need in court. Gentlemen of the ruling party, remember, you are in this assembly today, not tomorrow. If you adopt such laws, remember that you have been waiting for you on the curve for the following year and you will not be bypassed, no minister, no MP, no honest and honorable man in all parties in the Republic of Serbia. This will be decided by the mighty, those who have learned to terrorise, those who are prone to breaking the Constitution, breaking the law, and various abuses. For this reason, I believe that the future adoption of the law on judges and courts requires re-election. This frogstack, from the municipal court to the Constitutional and the Supreme, we have to search. Read the newspaper where it says that the lawyer has to solve the issue in his ranks, the bar of attorney. I passed a regulation when I was a federal minister to introduce dignity into law enforcement. What do we have in law enforcement? We have honorable men, but we also have individuals who break the law, who deal with everything. Did the bar shut down someone and why? There's no such thing. That is why everything must be purified if we want a legal, modern state, a state that should be proud of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the judiciary, here, they write a newspaper, says in the title of one newspaper -- lawyers, judges and prosecutors in one city breathe with one soul. So the verdict is made by order. There's no other way. What are you going to say, ladies and gentlemen, when our citizens, the poor, who seek justice in court, can't get it for 15 years, how can one verdict be reached in one day? Today, the prosecutor, through his famous lawyer, filed a lawsuit to a particular court, today the acting judge received the case, today provided the judge with a bigger one, today the judge called the litigation parties, brought evidence, heard the parties, reached a verdict, and the verdict became legal. Now let me ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in what conditions, under what circumstances, and who can go to court today and get it in court today? You know what, Mita bekriya works here. There's Mitta, there's no money. If there were no rope between those who participated in this procedure, it would not have been possible to pass, and an ordinary citizen waits 15 years for justice and cannot be welcomed. The acting president of the Trade Court says – in my court, since I came, trade courts have been through an American who has now introduced a system there on the Internet and on computers, increased efficiency. He comes into the morning program of television and says – in my court there is no older case than five years. Yesterday, I mentioned Andonovski Ljubomir, who owns the Bulgarian company, has been waiting 11 years before the same court. These liars, these criminals, those who are prone to corruption and bribery, who are reluctant to be liquidated, must be eliminated from the judiciary. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, let me not be resented for what the public will hear, and you, too, respected Serbia, honourable MPs, must not allow us to become judges over the bed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10514	The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Engineer Mrkonjic, yesterday, when commenting on the list of 10 candidates proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly for the selection of five, I told the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that it had given its due attention to the Constitutional Court. With no less attention from the SRS, the SRS parliamentary group does not treat this issue and issue. After resolving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, stabilising opportunities in the rask area, improving Serbia's citizens' standards, a very important and important place in our political activity is to reach a high-quality and good Constitutional Court. But with what we have now, the question is do we have a chance at all? I think with what the President of the Republic of Serbia has suggested, what Mr. President Oliver Dulic suggested to us, we are not achieving what should be done. The question arises as to how and how the legal procedure was to be implemented in order to reach the list of the National Assembly of 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges of which the President of the Republic would later accept five. The president of the National Assembly came out here yesterday and said he had problems, and I thought he would, as a proposer, pull that list. However, he said that it still stands as it is, and we don't know what the problems were when the procedure was launched. And yet another question arises - who is it, in the name of these four... Of the 10 candidates, for four we know who stands; were the heads of the parliamentary groups in conversation and contact with people? I suppose, in their view, they're professional people, people who could fit this function in quality and roles. Who chose, or suggested, these people? The president of the National Assembly called for a legal void. The constitution envisioned and said how and how the choice of the Constitutional Court judges is being made. The law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia only says in one member that judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected and mainly repeats what is provided for in the Constitution. If there is a legal gap, and it exists, the president of the National Assembly should have called on a team of prominent SRS lawyers, headed by Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Mrs. Vjeric Radet, Nemanja Sarovic, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Zoran Krasic, there may be someone else, and that the legal gap may be resolved. That's enough, Mr. Sarovic, and she could have gotten rid of it. When a certain company wants to take on several drivers in its ranks, I have a good opinion about people who deal with this profession, she signs a public ad, tries to get as many candidates as possible to get to the best, and we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court and then the presidents of the parliamentary groups propose some candidates. I don't accept the dispute, it's not really a big failure for me, and I wasn't in the process of calculating when one of these candidates should get the right to retire under the law. A man doesn't have to retire, and no one guarantees that his mandate can last nine years, as long as it's foreseen by the Constitution. A man can file a motion to leave that judge's office, can, God forbid, a death case takes place and we must again join the election of the Constitutional Court judges. When someone is supposed to qualify for retirement for us from the SRS, it is not relevant, but it is very important for us to have the highest quality of those who are not under the influence of political parties as judges of the Constitutional Court. Yesterday, Mr Krasic tried to explain that there are candidates who can be classified in two ranks or in two leagues. We have now come to the situation, as Mrs Vesna Pesic said in her presentation, that she had five candidates to appoint the president of the Republic of Serbia, certainly according to the Constitution, and five candidates who are DSS candidates, G17 plus or New Serbia. Then she concluded that there was a stalemate. But it's not. We have five other judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected at the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court of Serbia. Given who is now at the head of the Justice Ministry, what position we will be in – that the president of the Republic of Serbia will have 15 more judges on his side. The question arises why is it important for the president of the Republic of Serbia to have a majority in the Constitutional Court? For the purpose of Article 118(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The member says that if a two-thirds majority is launched an initiative to impeach the president of the Republic of Serbia, then the Constitutional Court is obliged to assess within 45 days whether the president of the Republic of Serbia has violated the constitution. Once he provides his majority, we'll never have a situation like that. And the President of the Republic of Serbia wants a very clear situation -- that we do not have a Constitutional Court; if we do, we have obedient candidates who will try to protect him and his political party at any moment. The Socialist Party of Serbia has stood here clearly and openly behind its two candidates, and it is my opinion that these candidates are quite solid and acceptable to the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. But I can guarantee you now that your proposal is in the beginning doomed because they are not candidates of the President of the Republic of Serbia, they are not candidates of the Democratic Party and their appearance of success is very small. By following the debate both yesterday and today between MPs who come from the territory of the Ras area, I conclude that perhaps the President of the Republic of Serbia has said -- you suggest your candidate, too, you suggest, don't vote for him, that there is one situation that we can't get to the list of ten, and then we continue to extend the situation. During a speech on the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, MPs of the Democratic Party here said that for the first time in Serbia, the Constitutional Court should be introduced and that they are proposing something new and there is a great salvation for the citizens of Serbia. As if we had no constitutional court earlier, only it had been blocked in its work; it was one big problem, but it was wanted by the Democratic Party and those parties that have been in power since 2000. The constitutional court of the Republic of Serbia would have to function urgently, but everything here seems not to come, that the situation in the Republic of Serbia, as due to those laws being passed, as now due to the constitutional appeal, can't the citizens exercise their rights... Ladies and gentlemen, you're the most involved in petty and much more large-scale fraud. I don't mean you who are MPs in the Serbian Parliament and who support the government as it is, but your responsibility is that you ministers from your ranks should force them to do what is in the interests of Serbian citizens, you never do it, but you will take responsibility for the citizens of Serbia. You see now a situation, someone who is obstructing and destructive, as it is customary for MP Milan Stanojevic to often say, if I say the name correctly, that they are obstructing and destroying the opposition's MPs. That's completely incorrect. The government had an obligation, according to a memorandum and by law, to submit a draft budget to the National Assembly by November 1st. She didn't do it and yesterday was at an extraordinary session, I assume, adopted a budget proposal for 2008. Why yesterday? Why wasn't that until November 1st? It is not seven or eight days, how much was missing, but because IMF representatives came and told Minister Cvetkovic and others in the government that the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia should look like. Now that you've increased your budget by 10%, what does that mean? This means that you are initially predicting an inflation of at least 10%, that you are designing it, and how much it will be in reality, Serbian citizens, you will feel it over your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10516	I thank the People's MP for meeting Peric. The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate was more than interesting. I have to say that we've heard a lot of things that may have surprised some of them, some of them haven't, but I've written down a few statements, they're very interesting, mostly because they come from representatives of the ruling coalition. We heard, among other things, in the afternoon debate, I'm going to quote, "This candidate is not good and we don't argue." I think it's really a shame for the ruling coalition to say that. And if something made it important and valuable for this afternoon debate, then it's mostly because it's discovered the true nature of this current DOS government and the DOS regime from 2000 to today, because objectively there's no difference. They may have changed the figures that were headed, who was the President of the Republic, who was in which ministry, who is the Prime Minister, but it's obvious that certain principles function from the moment you carried out the "bulodozer revolution" to the day of today, and that is, above all, the principle of political trade. You have turned this parliament literally into a market, and never so far, any criticism that they have been made in the way of electing prosecutors, the way the judges are elected, has never even happened in a situation like this before, and has never been this much interference in selecting the highest court office holders. We can see from the reasons, but I'll come to that later, which is the candidate proposal that political parties make. Like my colleagues in the SRS, I'm not going to talk about any candidate by name, and that's precisely because of this relationship and this trade that was done in the past weeks and months, it's completely unthinkable. It doesn't matter what the man's name is, it matters that it's the quota of that party. What are his professional qualities, what he has achieved in his career so far, has made you, unfortunately, entirely irrelevant. What follows this choice, which certainly cannot be avoided, from which, in my opinion, it is precisely the state of the entire Serbian judiciary at this time. We haven't had a constitutional court in years, almost five years, since the last seven, how much DOS is in power. We didn't have a Constitutional Court, but even the situation in other courts is no better. Look at the county courts, look at the county courts. It's not just a strike that's up to date. I must say that the requirements of the judicial staff, not the legal holders, but the people who work for small wages from 10,000 to 15,000 dinars, are absolutely justified. No one can live in Serbia today. But more than that, I'm surprised by this reaction from the Ministry and the offer, some kind of rude offer, which he announced would raise employees in the judiciary to pay for 100%, if 2,000 of them left the judiciary. This shows that Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic does not understand the situation in the judiciary, that he does not understand the process himself and that he is not a man who will bring anything good to the Serbian judiciary. I've worked alone in court, I know how many cases each individual employee is working with, I know that at this point because of the bad Law of Prosecution, even bad procedural laws, a huge number of cases at work. I know it's almost impossible to deal with all the cases right now, and that's why the proceedings take so long. But imagine what this idea of Minister Petrovic will bring if, God forbid, it is realized. I am sure it will bring the Serbian judiciary into complete collapse and that only then will the court proceedings take an incomparably longer. The second thing that is very important is that in the election, as we can see in the case of the Constitutional Court judge and for the other holders of judicial functions, by prosecutors, and particularly important in the case of judges, because they are the most important screws in that judiciary, both in Serbian and in each other, apparently for many years a negative selection has been carried out. To all who work in courts and anyone who understands this, it is clear and clear that this court can is objectively getting worse year and year. There's a whole series of reasons for that. The first is that someone who is not party-like cannot be elected judge of the municipal court, which is the first scale. Professional associates happen to be in that title for some 10 and a half 12 years, and they are skipped by people who have an unmatched lower impact, less internships and lower averages in colleges, just because they are party-like. Another major problem is that a large number of high-quality people have left the Serbian judiciary. All those who were high enough to do a job on their own, to be lawyers, they did it. So that's the second kind of negative selection, and that's why the worse ones stay in the Serbian judiciary. We have a number of lovers in this subpoena, who are more or less materially independent and who love this job and who are more enthusiastic than for any other reason doing that subpoena. It is good to hear during today's debate that Boris Tadic does not respect minority members. It's good to hear that he has once again betrayed the trust of those who gave him the vote. On the other hand (of course, the other side of the same government) we heard that Kostunica is the one who disrespects minorities and that he is the one who abuses the state apparatus in the Raška area and, above all, the police in dealing with his coalition partners. Unfortunately, it must be noted that both are right and both are both presidents, both Prime Minister and President of the Republic, have misused the trust they were told in the elections. As far as the proposal we received from President Oliver Dulic's Assembly is concerned, it is extremely controversial, it is not known how this proposal came about, on the basis of which a member of the Constitution or the law, Oliver Dulic took his right, adopted, kidnapped, usurped the right to be the one who will propose 10 candidates on which the Assembly will plead. It is absurd that even today, during the debate itself, we do not know in which way these candidates will be elected, whether the Assembly will declare themselves on each individual, so those who have the largest number of votes will be some whom the Assembly probably prefers and recommends to those others, or whether we will adopt at the end of all 10, the complete list, and then Boris Tadic will willingly (as Oliver Dulic chose the candidates willingly) of those 10 choose the five who are willing to do so. Oliver Dulic said there is a legal gap there, but a team is more controversial than who gave him the right to fill that void in the way he finds it to be a suitable ruling coalition at this time. The problem with whom there is not enough attention, I think, is that according to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has 15 judges. We are currently in the election process of 10 candidates, five on a proposal from the President of the Republic, five will be elected on the basis of a proposal from the President, which should be based on a proposal from the National Assembly, but five other candidates, who should be elected by the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, are five candidates for which we absolutely do not know whether or when they will be elected. If these proposals, however bad they are, eventually pass, if we choose ten judges of the Constitutional Court, it will mean that in accordance with the Constitution, we will be formed by the Constitutional Court, i.e. we will have two-thirds of the judges who will allow the Constitutional Court to function in the future. What does that mean right away? It means that there will be no sufficient number of judges to resolve more than 1,000 cases that are already waiting for resolution and waiting for them to enter the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. It means that if any of these 10 elected for any reason ceases to be the Constitutional Court judge, whether at will, whether for any other reason, Serbia will again remain indefinitely without the Constitutional Court for a very short period of time. So only one of these people is enough to give up and Serbia has no Constitutional Court again. I'll read you article 143. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia belongs to the courts of general and special jurisdiction. "Well, in Section 4, he said, "the Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. "We heard this from both Bosko Ristic and other representatives of the ruling coalition. Item 5 says "The Supreme Cassation Court seat is in Belgrade. "I would like to ask representatives of the ruling coalition, any one, here if the chairman or any of you can tell us exactly where the Belgrade-based headquarters is, Belgrade is a big city, give us the address where the Supreme Cassation Court is based. That, of course, no one can do that, because the Supreme Cassation Court, as we all know, doesn't exist. You have failed to fulfil, and this is another one of the obligations of the Constitutional Law, which is referred to in Article 5, where it is said - the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of the laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the courts and public prosecutors, and that is this Article 142, and particularly says - the laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts. It is not enough to prescribe by the Constitution that there is a Supreme Cassation Court, you must implement it in action. Instead of having discussed the Karpats, the ecologicality of the Karpats, and I don't know what, you had to prepare the laws of which depended on the state order of Serbia and which depend on the formation of the judicial branch of the government, to come out with these laws, to complete the debate and to form the Constitutional Court in the manner that the Constitution and the Constitutional Law require. It is also extremely controversial that Mr Oliver Dulic sent a writer to us who says: the subject: corrections in the proposed list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. He then corrects the name, i.e. the last name of the proposed candidates, which is a clear indication that Oliver Dulic is not really a proponent of this act, or a group of 10 judges, 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, but that Oliver Dulic was only the one who signed the proposal, and then again through his coalition partners determined the biographic data and professional qualities of these people. We must also remind you of the fact that only one piece of paper was first sent to the MPs where the names and last names of the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, without any biographical information. So we didn't know who people were, or where they came from, when they finished law school, how many internships they had, what jobs they were working on, absolutely nothing. Then, at the request of the SRS parliamentary group and after the protests that we put forward, Oliver Dulic quickly collected these biographical data, so he found neither guilty nor obliged that individual candidates were called exactly as he suspected, that they were not doing what he assumed, but that they were still, in his view, the best for the proposed functions. Oliver Dulic remained in our debt to go out for this pay phone and as a promoter, because he signed himself like that, explained what drove him to propose these people to the Constitutional Court judges and try at least to convince the MPs, 250 MPs or those of the opposition who are interested, that we also vote for these people. Of course, he didn't do it because he doesn't care about something like that. He knows that, regardless of these insults that you have spoken to each other and all the criticism, when the voting day comes, you will press the button neatly, which you must press and vote for the proposal of whatever it is. Now I'm going to say a few words about the proposal itself, I'm not going to mention any name, because it's completely unthinkable, but in principle, I think the citizens of Serbia need to see who these people are who are going to be judges of the Constitutional Court and they need to see that it might be better if we don't have the Constitutional Court, than if we have the Constitutional Court that you want to form. It's about people who are mostly similar because they're in some parties, which are similar because they've completed all kinds of courses in Budapest, America, Canada, Germany, because they belong to NGOs, and who knows what else. What is controversial is that you could at least find people who meet certain conditions and who can be said to be prominent lawyers. You've got people here who've been working on all kinds of cooperatives, you've got people who've never written a single verdict, they've never worked in court or interns, they've never set foot in court, they're not professors at law schools, but that's why they worked at the ministries. That's enough for them to recommend. So what should be the top of someone's career, a job for the most excellent lawyers in Serbia, you'll let people who may never have seen what the verdict looks like. Can there be any question as to what the Constitutional Court's verdicts will be? Here, one of the candidates, I'll read you a piece of the biographical data. She said she was a adviser to the republic's public prosecutor, so the assistant director of PTT traffic in Serbia, then the legal adviser to the federal minister of telecommunications, so in 2004, when the government was formed, the deputy minister of state administration and local self-government, and then when this government was formed, then the secretary at the Ministry of Education. So you understand which party it is and whose ability it is. Career movements followed the movements of individual ministers; as the ministry's minister moves to the ministry, so does this candidate. It is obvious that it is an expert on all issues, i.e. when translated into Serbian, of a person who probably doesn't understand anything. You wrote for her that she's not a member of any party, it says for several candidates. I don't know, if you say he's not a member of a party, he's not a member of an NGO, can we justifiably assume he's a member of some parties, but that you won't tell us what parties it's about? If that's the case, I accept it anyway, because it's not the least problem to determine which party it belongs to. As some ministers moved from the ministry to the ministry, so did these quasiexperts, who once became their deputies, once secretaries, advisers, and calling in the end line is not so important. The next candidate is told – since 1980 he has been working in court. What does "work in court" mean? Did the lady work at the post office, did she work as a coffee cook, did she work as a cleaning lady? They're honorable professions, but she worked in court, and that doesn't mean anything to us. We need to know, if it's about the biography of the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, who he's been working on. If she performed after a certain period of time, we must know, therefore, what her results were there, and why didn't we get to see what the percentage of the revised verdicts, which is the percentage of the judgments that were downgraded, the confirmed verdicts? Let's see the quality of the judge's work. Then again, we have one candidate who has nothing to do with the courts, because he never worked in court. This candidate worked as the director of the personnel affairs sector at the Pristina Railway and Transport Organisation, and was an assistant director of the Republic Directorate for the Development of Kosovo and Metohija, and as adviser to the Ministry of Economic Relations, so he was a member of the expert work of the state negotiating team. So it's clear again that it's a party candidate who's not a college professor who's never worked in court. Can you tell anyone with these qualifications that he's a prominent lawyer? I don't think so. What is particularly interesting, he says, has a passive and active knowledge of English. Right, that's what a prominent lawyer should know, one rule applies – who can do more, can do less. If you say he has active knowledge, then it's understood that he has passive knowledge. If he says - I know all about English, then it means he knows some basic phrases and phrases. The next candidate, I repeat, will not mention the names, because it is party candidates and party listeners, it is also said – from 2000 to 2002, at the post of Assistant Minister for the Federal Ministry, and then a member of the expert team for the construction of federal law on this and then under professional work, I quote: "I have stayed abroad for training several times, so I have completed various courses". She was a lady in Budapest, so she completed certain courses; I will not read it out of respect for the MPs and out of respect for this assembly home, but it is a shame that Oliver Dulic, who signed this, is sending material to the Members of the English language. I would ask Mr. Dulic to make a proposal that will be included in the Serbian language, because all this is written here, the names of these courses and courses that the candidate lady has completed, all this can be translated nicely into Serbian. So, we've had problems with similar things before, we've been dealing with them both to the end, but I think it's necessary that all the suggestions we get are, from the first to the last letter, in Serbian. If necessary, materials can be made that will be in the languages of minorities whose representatives we have here in parliament, but it is absolutely bad and unacceptable that we are presented with proposals that are in foreign languages, and we do not have representatives of these minorities in this assembly home. Of course, after that, the lady reached Washington, to Santa Clara University, Smith College in Massachusetts, she may have stopped by the National Guard of Ohio, but it's clear that here, not to read now, these famous works of hers that she worked for some NGOs... Clearly, I would leave a certain amount of time for my colleagues to say something else, that the proposal we're discussing today is a real picture of the DOS regime. It is clear that you are still breaking up fundamentally, brick by brick, the Serbian judiciary, that this Constitutional Court, if you form it, and unfortunately, as far as I can see, you are on your way to doing it, will be worse than any previous one, and it seems to me that it won't last long. The SRS parliamentary group will certainly not vote for this proposal, and I call on minority representatives, not on their representatives here, but on these people who gave votes to Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, to come to their senses and yet to round up someone else, I will not enter into who, but to round someone in the next elections who has not failed their promises so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10518	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Marton came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10519	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for asking for a word, but as MP of the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, I would have to appeal to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and first, I would call on professional services to establish how many members of Parliament are actually sitting in the highest legislative body. The fact is that dozens of members of the DSS, DS, G17 plus, the NS are holding cards in their units, and MPs are who knows where. It is, in any case, in itself a great misrepresentation of this body very important for the functioning of the Serbian state. Definitely, a large number of MPs of the ruling coalition, who, during the debate on this agenda point, really should be sitting in their seats, are not there right now. I would point out that in normal states, MPs who have elected the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, who is also the pronoun of all these ten candidates or candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, should sit in their seats and give importance to the very act of electing the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Unfortunately, DS MPs, DSS, NS and G17 plus, who were keenly in favour of adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, have done nothing for a year on the constitutional court law, have done nothing to address the issue of functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, we expected much more seriousness from them today when we talk about the choice of judges, but obviously MPs and MPs of the ruling coalition have much better things to do at the moment. I would indeed repeat, in the end, that we MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina apologize to the MPs of the ruling coalition who are currently here and who are doing their job with honor, but, as far as I can see, at this point only seven: from the Democratic Party - four, DSS - one MP, from Unity of Serbia - is one MP, from G17 - two MPs and from New Serbia - one MP. I consider MPs to be a place in the MPs' benches, and let voters judge for themselves how they will punish such work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10520	It is now time to discuss the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. We've got 10 minutes to break, and Mrs. Radeta has 30 minutes left to speak. After the break. The session will continue at 15.00 hours and the first speaker will be Mrs. Verica Radeta. I ask the service to once again, what MP Alexander Marton has said, control.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to remind you that today we are talking about a proposal for a constitutional court, a proposal from the National Assembly; in fact, it should be a proposal from the National Assembly and you will hear, of course, why I say it. Why haven't we had a Constitutional Court so far, why don't we have a Supreme Cassation Court, why we don't really need the institutions of the system, especially not the judicial ones, is evidence, let's say, that today the director of the Public Municipal Enterprise "City Cleanness" of Belgrade Dragan Ignatovic and 31 other people with him has been arrested for embezzling one and a half billion dinars. This Mr. Dragan Ignjatovic was a member of Covice Alternative, today he is a member of the Democratic Party and as such he was elected to the post and, behold, it is one of the explanations... I'm not lying, come out, sir, and say I'm lying, what you're throwing out of the bench... You're a member and you've set him up, so you can talk whatever you want. You said that they were not your members, nor Kolesar, nor Janjusevic, Mary Rusheta, whomever they caught in the thieving, you say he is not your member. It's a familiar manner of DS. So yesterday, a proposal was discussed for judges of the Constitutional Court who proposed to the National Assembly Boris Tadic, or DS. Perhaps all those elected in this House, those five that Tadic has circled for you, as long as they do not commit any crime, such as the one I just read to him, Dragan Ignjatovic, by then you will not be ashamed to say that they are members of the DS, and as soon as they commit a crime, you wash your hands from those you place. Of course, it's a matter for judicial institutions. I only said this to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the citizens of Belgrade who are robbing them and, behold, some are caught in the crime and arrested. We promise the citizens of Serbia that this will not be a unique case, that all those who have sinned against this people will be arrested, all those who participated in the robbery of this people, who brought this people to the brink of existence and below the edge of existence. Unfortunately, there are many in Serbia today. The proposal, which was discussed yesterday, submitted to the National Assembly by DS President Boris Tadic as president of the Republic, included ten candidates for biography, with their statement to accept the bid. When we received a draft agenda last week for this session that is under way, I said, at least as much as I don't respect Boris Tadic and what he's doing and the way he's doing, when I compared his proposal for the Constitutional Court judges to what he is, I should be commending him on behalf of all of us, and not, Oliver Dulic, then I said that really Boris Tadic in that part. What did we get from Oliver Dulic, the president of parliament? First, I have to remind you of article 9. The law on the implementation of the Constitution which states who proposes judges of the Constitutional Court, so it says, if by the end of the term of the election, or the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, the high council of the judiciary and the State's chief prosecutors are not established, that is, the first choice of judges of the Supreme Court, the cassation court, and of course we do not have who knows when we will have it, is the fact that the Constitutional Court is considered as being established and if two-thirds of the judges are elected, but the question is how long will we wait and this third-third is the question. Furthermore, it is said, it means that judges of the Constitutional Court are appointed from the list of candidates of the President of the Republic and the list of candidates of the National Assembly. The list of candidates of the National Assembly was problematic today, particularly problematic about half last week when we received this material and, at least as far as the SRS MPs were concerned, we were surprised to see the proposal signed by Oliver Dulic as parliament speaker. If Oliver Dulic had signed it as a national MP, I would have understood, I would have thought it was his 10 proposals so each of us would propose one day two, five or ten, and from that we will form a list of 10 candidates who are actually a proposal from the National Assembly. No, Mr Oliver Dulic tried to deceive the MPs by who knows which way and to violate the Constitutional Law and the Constitution in the most cruel way possible. (President: Please let us speak in an appropriate manner. ) I remind you, Mr. Albianic, that, above all, the other MPs, that such a gesture, what Mr. Oliver Dulic had done, had carried out a coup, because, by definition, the coup was when someone who performed a certain function took more authority for himself than the law and the Constitution gave him. Since Oliver Dulic is not the National Assembly, but only the president of the National Assembly, then his proposal could not possibly have been the way he was last week. And if I were right, Mr Albianic, he also says that Mr Oliver Dulic, right after I had warned him about the matter, said that the session would be interrupted at 17 hours that day so that, I think Tuesday was the issue, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held a session that day and that we would discuss the problem that happened. What did we find on that board? We realized that we had a proposal from the President of Parliament with ten names. In the meantime, after he... Although we did not ask for this, we did not ask the Constitutional Affairs Committee to deliver an opinion as it was brought. Of course, in that committee, the Serbian Radical Party does not have a majority, we have delivered the position of our parliamentary group and we are not surprised that it has not passed, but someone has come to the sense that the Committee and the Committee have, as it stands here, concluded that candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court, proposed by the National Assembly by the President of the National Assembly, meet the conditions laid down in Article 172(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A position of Article 5, 172. The Serbian Constitution reads: "The Constitutional Court judge is elected and appointed among prominent lawyers, with at least 40 years of life and 15 years of experience in the legal profession." How many years they have and how much experience they have in the legal profession, it is certainly not a dispute. That's very verifiable. But since you will hear during my debate, Oliver Dulic didn't even know the names of those people he proposed, I wouldn't be surprised if he didn't even know how many years of experience in the legal profession, or how many years of life they have, but it's particularly interesting that people named among prominent lawyers are. Mr Oliver Dulic concluded that these ten names, these ten people are prominent lawyers. The members of the Constitutional Committee said they met the conditions for it. Now I ask, I also asked on the Constitutional Committee, and now I ask the members of the Constitutional Committee who voted for this conclusion, do they really know these people, do they know everything about their work, about their functioning, and can they guarantee us before the day of voting that it really is about prominent lawyers? I really wouldn't dare say something like that if I didn't have a really undeniable opinion about it. What did we get further from Mr. Dulic at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? I kept that material because I didn’t know it then, but it turned out to be good because the material that we received officially as MPs of the National Assembly differs from that which we received as members of the Committee. First, one of the remarks that we put on the Committee was, what most MPs were saying today, why for five candidates we know who is proposing them, and for five we don't know who is proposing them. Then we made an observation to the fact that for those five candidates, for whom we know who is proposing them, along with their biographies and these suggestions, we also have their agreement that they are willing to perform this very high and significant function if they are elected. These five Dulic candidates do not have and have not attached such consent. I guess now that we'd all be even, today, actually yesterday, we're getting material, where these people have already given written consent that they want and that they're willing to perform the functions of the Constitutional Court judge if they're elected to these functions. Well, then, one of the candidates in one material is called Bug and another is called Dušan. Apparently, Mr. Dulic was completely unprepared when Mr. Aligrudic gave him this list. Because the fact that today is not being said here and that the members of the Democratic Party of Serbia do not participate at all in this debate is particularly symptomatic, but on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have in some way forced Mr Aligrudic to make arguments, so he said in the end – there is nothing controversial, these five candidates are candidates of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I expected him here today, in this place to say it, because then the bill is quite clear. These parties, who proposed their candidates and who contributed both biographies and consent, did so for nothing, apparently reached an agreement: these five candidates, who were not properly presented to us at all, and the five candidates rounded by Boris Tadic, who will be voted here, will be judges of the Constitutional Court. That is one reason, in fact, the basic reason why the Serbian Radical Party did not want to participate in this farce. We knew this was all pre-arranged. I'm not saying that we knew which names would be in circulation, although some names are also very characteristic of the movement in the service, but we knew that there was an agreement made and that someone only wanted the procedure to turn out to be democratic and constitutional. As we were told on the Constitutional Committee, Mr Dulic said, all MPs had the right to propose, and he doesn't know what was going on here, so we discussed it. I asked Mr Dulic then, if that is true, if all MPs have indeed proposed and why he did not write to us – based on the proposal of the MPs, I have drawn up a list of ten names that I have sent to the MPs for debate and adoption. Of course, he didn't have an answer because he knew it wasn't like that. First of all, I want to say what my colleagues said, that we do not want to discuss names; this is the constitutional court with the judges you choose is your responsibility and that is why we will not participate in this. We have a proposal from the SPS parliamentary group for Professor Vladan Kutlesic and Master Jadranka Injac. For one candidate and another, we have neat biographies, we have their consent, on October 29th, signed; this proposal by the Socialist Party of Serbia was submitted on October 29th. We're not going into whether these people are members of the Socialist Party or not, under the Constitution they shouldn't be. I know that, in any case, as far as party membership is concerned, they are no different than the others I will later list, as well as those of Tadic yesterday, who are undeniably all members of the Democratic Party. Furthermore, we have a candidate for the G17 Plus parliamentary group, on 25 October, Suzanne Grubjesic, head of the parliamentary group signed, candidate Dr Dragan M. Stojanovic, professor at the Faculty of Law in Nis. We also have a neat biography, and in this case we don't have his consent to want to do this job. We have a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of Minorities - the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians - the List of Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, we have a proposal signed on 3 October by Bajram Omeragic, the candidate is Mrs Zejnapa Kavrajic, and we have her, somewhat shorter, biography, and we have her consent signed on 3 October. As I understand it, she was the only one here today who was controversial amongst the MPs, among the peoples of the Rasca region. We don't think it's good that today's debate has turned into whether or not someone wants to accept whether a candidate or tomorrow the Constitutional Court judge is someone who is Muslim or can't be because he's Muslim. We in the SRS have a serious objection to this kind of debate, because we think that belonging to a people or to a national minority must not be a reason for or against anyone whether or not they can perform this function. The gentlemen who have been arguing about this proposal today, I also say -- they have done it for nothing, neither will their candidate go, these five will pass, which I will now mention. We have another orderly candidacy, Vojvodjanski MEPs - LSV, SVM, Prof. Dr. Agnes Kartag-Odri, on 20 September 2007 signed a statement saying this would accept. He's got a detailed biography. We come up with five papers written without a date, without their consent, four made on the same machine. When I said that on the board, and today I mean it, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then Mr. Dulic must have thought he'd be funny or very smart and said this was done on the computer, not on the machine. He doesn't know the computer's a machine. That's when I warned him about it. So, a certain Celic Dusan, and in today's biography, he's a Chelic Duško, I guess you understand that this is not about the same man, these are different names. We have Rulic Mihailo – this was the one who was president of the RIK on the DSS proposal, although they say he is not a member of them, which I do not believe in, but is known for a significant violation of the electoral regulations, among other things, those famous 3,000 signatures, contrary to the law, when everyone had an obligation to apply 10,000, and he accepted one group of candidate lists 3,000 signatures. We have Katarina Manojlovic-Andric, also known from the 2000 elections. At that time, however, it belonged to another political option, so that some who have already proposed don't have to be afraid, their candidates will certainly pass, not those who, as such, have indicated, but from this other Kostunica group. Then we have Vesna Ilic-Prelic (it is written on another machine), as well as Olivera Vukic, born Egic. So, for all of these five candidates, Mr Oliver Dulic tasked someone to, between the session of the Assembly and the Committee at which we discussed, quickly do this basic data for these people and that's what we discussed, which was discussed, of course, here in parliament. Says Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, today when she went out to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, that the Democratic Party was generous, that they did not want to propose their candidates, they left it to other parliamentary groups. Really, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia, I thought this was funny. What does that mean and who do you have to leave it to? The National Assembly proposes, so all parliamentary groups can propose, must be allowed to propose. Are they going to suggest... The SRS isn't and won't, LDP, and I think everyone else is. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, didn't propose five, you suggested 10. It's the ten of Tadic's yesterday, it's yours, it's not your generosity, it's your deal with Kostunica. He's gonna do these five today, and you're out of those 10 five you agreed on yesterday, and then we're wasting our time here, two days talking about something that's already guaranteed today, just waiting to be signed. It's unserious, irresponsible and the way you tried to explain why you don't have your candidates on the list of candidates of the National Assembly is simply something that certainly doesn't fit the truth. It's gonna be a problem when we're voting day for these candidates, because I have to say that both on this list and on that list yesterday, there are people who can be said to have done their job, the jobs they've worked on, done both professionally and qualityly, and they haven't exhibited anything. I don't know how we're going to do it, if you're thinking of voting on this kind of guture, how are we going to define ourselves, whether or not some candidates are going to get damaged, so they won't vote for them, because they're on the list with some MPs who wouldn't vote for it, and vice versa. I think you had to talk about having an attitude and we need to talk about it seriously anyway. We can't cut it across our knees and you, let's say, as head of the DS parliamentary group suggest that we vote like this in general and that you have 126 green buttons and that we end it that way. That certainly wouldn't be good. We think that we should vote individually and in this way get to some number, or some people... Maybe one of these people will have an absolute majority, maybe one of these people will have zero votes. If you pick five out of 10, in any case all five can't have 126 votes. You get 10. We would simply have to do it with both leaves, to make a deal and to do it and to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but to make sense of such a vote at all. It'd be good... First of all, I need to make sure Mr. Dulic didn't come by accident. I can see he didn't. It would be good and it's common, if he's the promoter, to come. Let's say, if he were here, I'd ask him now, because in this proposal, we don't have the consent of these people to be willing to perform these functions, which is his solution if we vote these proposals and then these people show up on TV or in some newspaper and say, "Aman, people, neither who asked me, nor I care, nor do I want to do that." Then what were we doing? I don't know if the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the DS and DSS know that maybe Oliver Dulic shared it with them, so here I call them to tell us if we have a guarantee that we don't vote for someone who isn't ready to do this. You can also consult with Mr. Dulic in the meantime, nothing is disputed, but we need to know anyway. As for the disputed proposal, and yet I will not mention the name and last name, because I said that we will not participate in the debate, this dispute must be resolved by Mr Oliver Dulic, because this is his proposal. Unless he wishes the same thing we do, even if this is the reason to shoot the coalition, to shoot the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It's broken already. They just haven't been notified. So, perhaps Oliver Dulic wants to participate, and then we support him in it, but if he still thinks he's somehow preserving what's obviously broken in all the stitches, and what's called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then he's the one who's responsible and he's the one, because he writes here, President Oliver Dulic, he's the one who has to deal with that group of MPs to figure out what to do with this proposal or, at worst, and perhaps at best, to ask for that file that Mr. Zoran Krasic here mentioned, and then to make it clear to all of us. True, it is possible that Mr. Jocic has that information too, and it is good that he came. I suppose, Mr. Jocic, that at least one part of this you've been listening to, so that I don't repeat it now, or read the stenogram so you can help us out, to tell us whether this candidate who's been disputed by six MPs for two days meets the conditions of being judge of the Constitutional Court or not. By the time you're here, Mr. Jocic, I like to say hello so nicely. This time the question, I would ask you, I assume you have information, we got it, that this morning Dragan Ignatovic, the director of the JKP "City Cleanness", Belgrade, and another 31 people with it, were arrested for embezzlement of one and a half billion dinars. By the way, this Dragan Ignjatovic (I guess you, Mrs Kolundžija, know) was a member of Covica Alternative, and is now a member of the Democratic Party. I'd like to take the opportunity to let us know. As for the candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court, as said by colleagues in the SRS, your judges - your responsibility, your law - your responsibility. Nor is it a good law for you on the Constitutional Court, unless you accept tomorrow or the next days of our amendment, nor are all the candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, nor is it good that we will know how long we will have two-thirds of the Constitutional Court judges instead of all 15 as long as the Constitution provides. (President: Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Albianic, is this the time that remains for our MP group? (President: Yes, I thank you. ) Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I didn't notice, since you usually warn me when I'm not supposed to, I thought that's what it is now. So if it votes the way democratic, business, constitutional and just and whatever you want, then we'll have some candidates to vote for. If they vote for the lists, we won't vote for either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10523	Are any of the heads of parliament or MPs who have not used this right to answer the word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10524	Mr. Albianic, someone has to explain to the MPs how these lists will be voted on. (President: Just say which member of the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 136, if you care so much. For the sake of the MPs, you must inform the public that we will vote, if we vote at all in the National Assembly, when it comes to the second and third points of the agenda of this session, whether to vote individually, whether to vote for the whole list, etc. Because there are numerous objections here, and you yourself have admitted that neither the law nor the Constitution nor our Rules of Procedure regulates this area. In order for you not to manipulate it in the way it is handled, I warn you in advance that you must inform all MPs in writing that we are going to vote. I have reason to ask this question. Mr. Jocic, I think your service is armed to resolve one question, which is to check that Vladimir Vukcevic has been elected as war crimes prosecutor. Just to remind you, on July 10th 2003, the government's representative was Vladan Batic; he was proposed by the government, based on a member who was unconstitutional, later. In 2004, the Constitutional Court declared that it was a member of 56. The law on the public prosecutor's office contradicts the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Based on an unconstitutional member, the unauthorized proponent was the government of the Republic of Serbia and he was elected. The election decision was signed by Mrs Natasa Micic, she called for one member of the law concerning the prosecutor and Article 130. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of a secret vote. Someone planted her, she didn't go into those details, she was the president of the assembly at the time. So, Mr. Jocic, later the Constitutional Court found out, and at the time you were an MP and led the action on how prosecutors and deputy prosecutors were elected. Remember, at that time, it was transferred to the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then they devalued your set of judicial laws from that DOS. Vladimir Vukcevic has been elected. Now, Mr. Albianic, engage the services, Mr. Jocic, to hire these other services to enter there and see what's done. (President: What services should I hire as vice president? ) You engage in legal services, the Legislative Committee, the Ministry of Justice, the Secretariat of legislation to explain to us how this man could legally be resolved. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I repeat, Mr. Albianic, that you may remember. You remember the numbers, the words are hard to remember. So, hire all the institutions dealing with the right to explain to the MPs so that we can get Vladimir Vukcevic as a war crimes prosecutor to solve it. I remind you, the Assembly chooses him. Who can get rid of him? Is there a reason for the resolution? Mr. Jocic, you know what he does in the streets, and how he abuses both his service, and the Dark One and all of them. You're smiling. When are you gonna get the jeep back?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10525	Mr. Krasic, please, it's been a long time. The word is made by the People's Messenger Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10526	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. 101, 104 and 226 I will give a certain explanation and some reactions to certain discussions here. We in a group of minorities, of course, when we were already talking here about proposals for the Constitutional Court judges, agreed that the candidate should be from the Sandzak Bosniak ranks, meaning the parties participating in the parliamentary group. Of course, I still have to explain. It would be ironic and cynical at all to argue that this will also be represented by Albanians, who are currently not represented in municipal courts, let alone in the district and now that this is also being reached by the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, that's the situation. I have already asked a question, to which I have not yet received an answer, what will be done to improve the structure, let's say, in Bujanovac, where currently out of eight judges is only one Albanian, out of ten employees in the prosecutor's office only one Albanian; in Presevo, for example. Of 90% of Albanians, the current structure is 40% of Albanians. Imagine, you've got these kind of criminal situations: two young people are being admitted at the same time, one in Presevo, one in Bujanovac, as trainees, taking a trial at the same time, and an Albanian from Presevo gets a break in his working relationship, and a court associate comes from Bujanovac, just because he's a Serb. And here, like, we're working on further integration of Albanians into state structures. Let me add one more thing, if you look at yesterday's and today's discussions on this agenda point, it turns out that the alpha and omega in this parliament and the institutions of this nation's minority, at least by the discussions and the time it is dedicated to it. We know the situation isn't like that. As for that nostalgia, which Mr. Baralic did not see before noon, that at that time, in the earlier regime, was a wonderful situation in Novi Pazar, as well as with minorities, I can tell him that the situation in Presevo and Bujanovac was about the same as at that time, there was no change after October 5th. Let him come with that nostalgia to see, Mr. Baralic, what happens in Presevo and Bujanovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10527	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10528	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to remind ourselves that without the Serbian Radicals, you from the ruling coalition cannot and cannot interpret the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure, because you have found yourself in a situation that Mr Krasic has been talking about for two days, and I have reported because I talked to the President of the Assembly about it, because of the procedure that will take place in a few days, about the way it will vote for the proposed candidates. Namely, there is only one way, by Article 178. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and there is something which is a constitutional condition that says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia elects five judges of the Constitutional Court among the ten candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, we have that list; the President of the Republic appoints five judges of the Constitutional Court among the ten candidates proposed by the National Assembly. Of the ten we should suggest ten and there is no possibility that there are now 20, 30 or, as counterpart Krasic said yesterday, 50 candidates, so now the National Assembly determines and determines the list. The list cannot be established in this way that Oliver Dulic wanted to do before Mrs Radeta warned him. So, it's the first violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, that he started by sorting out names, without the candidate's biography, and not in alphabetical order, but as the candidates arrived, as the parties sent them. Some of them today have not come forward, although it is evident for five candidates with lists, which political parties. Now it can be applied, and this is a conscious president of the National Assembly, only Article 178 – that each candidate is voted individually. It's the only thing that can be done. Mrs Kolundžija, also known by the President of the Assembly, and the secretary and deputy secretary, and in this situation, when you have ten candidates and it takes ten, is not valid and cannot be addressed to Boris Tadic if all ten of the proposed ones do not get a qualified majority, and that is a minimum of 126 MPs, then I should also respond to counterpart Muji Mukovic, who is not in the hall right now, that he cannot, on the basis of Article 179. A Rules of Procedure in this situation to carry out any dispute individually. If there were a list and a list was voted on, as counterpart Krasic on behalf of the SRS back seven years and other colleagues disputed, last year it was 120 candidates for judicial holders, then it could - individually disputed candidates and be voted on in particular. That was the case and will be the future for the election of other judicial officials. When it comes to this, it is clear and that is what I personally explained with President Dulic, only one can vote individually on each candidate. After that, it is a really funny provision of the Rules of Procedure, he says - it is decided in secret or in public. In any event, it shall be voted by electronic, i.e. identification cards and parliamentary units. Earlier in the process of doing the job, Ms. Micic made a mistake for MPs, it is no secret vote, because in fact, it is voiced by the use of the electronic system. But each of these candidates needs to get 126 and the result of the vote will be published and the list will be set to go, based on the vote for each candidate individually. In case it happens, because of your thorns and fights that last for two days in a row or I don't know how, one of these candidates doesn't get a majority, and there are ten candidates, then there's no list and then there's no proposal from the National Assembly. Then we have to go through the whole procedure again and get a new ten or more proposals, and we vote out of that total number of proposals. It's the only way and the only way... (President: Miss Jovanovic, please, can you stop? )......................................................................................................... And that's what, you know, and you, I guess, my colleague Albianic, I just wanted to help you because I see that you're not doing very well in this situation in front of this key... (President: Thank you for your help. Time's up. )......................................................................................................... The questions before the end of the debate, and I think you'll be grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10529	National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic and Miss Natasa Jovanovic have explained the problem facing the Serbian Parliament, concerning a proposal to refer to the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. Unlike the formerly agreed economy, which has also created problems, and the agreed policy, regardless of its intentions, creates problems. You've really come to a situation here that I don't know how you can solve, or vote for a list, and you can't vote for a list, you have to vote for each individual. What are you going to do if, theoretically, of these ten candidates only four get that majority? What are you going to suggest to Boris Tadic? This is a serious problem. That's what you had to think about. What you agreed in advance, that's legitimate, but the deal has to be in line with the Rules of Procedure. That's the basic thing. You must respect the Rules of Procedure. The deal in advance - we will propose this much, Tadic so much, we will choose from those proposed by Tadic five, but you have already agreed which five will be, it is not disputed. In the event of a proposal by Boris Tadic, the assembly will elect five. Tell me, how are you going to get a list of ten candidates when you have to vote for each individual? Among other things, you've heard the challenge of individual candidates on this list. You'll get into a situation where you won't get 126 for each of these candidates, and you can't suggest nine, eight or seven. So you just have to suggest ten. I don't know how you're gonna get out of that situation. It says that some things have to change, it should be done at the beginning and with a proposal from the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, so that we do not have problems for representatives of national minorities who expected the president of Serbia to respect not only the votes he received in the presidential elections, but the situation in Serbia, that there are numerous national minorities and that, among other things, they should seek one of the candidates from the ranks of national minorities. I really don't know how you think you can handle this problem by the time you vote, but you're in a position to be challenged even by your coalition partners. Look, you know how they ran away from the vote last week, they didn't want to vote until it was seen and the question of whether there would be a choice or not. I remind you only of those true things, I don't make anything up. That could happen to you right now. Then what are you going to do? Then the drone will have to be satisfied again, and that, for God's sake, I don't know if the queen will make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10531	The word has been made by MP Laszlo Varga, deputy president of the Vojvodjan Group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10532	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this two-day debate, it seemed to me that we were able to convince the ruling coalition that in a country with more than a million members of national minorities it would be perfectly normal for one, at least one, if not more, member of the national minorities to be found among the elected judges. As MPs of the SRS are normally well informed, I have to admit that at this point I'm a little confused. In fact, Mrs Radeta has announced as one uncontested fact, namely the information she has come up with that no member of any national minority will be appointed from the Assembly list of candidates to be appointed by the President of the Republic. Of course, from that other list proposed by the President of the Republic and cannot be appointed a member of the national minority because there is no minority on that list. During yesterday and today, we are from the president of the National Assembly, then from the MPs of the DS, and also from Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, we are assured that among the elected and appointed judges of the Constitutional Court, they will be members of the national minorities. I don't know at this point, so which information is correct. Unfortunately, the president of the National Assembly isn't in the O.R., and I was going to ask him to answer my question. Since Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija is in the O.R., I would ask her this question at this time, or would I ask her to remove these doubts, which is now, at the end of this two-day debate, the final position of the ruling coalition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10533	Thank you. Do any of the MPs report for a word without taking advantage of his right? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After the search has been carried out, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AZIL LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee, the Defence and Security Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 54. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10534	Honorable Vice President, esteemed MPs, first of all, to expose... (President: I ask the People's MPs to listen to Mr. Minister. )......................................................................................................... The reason for the law, so Mrs. Radeta will get an explanation about your question. I'd only ask to present the bill. Thank you. Azil, in the Republic of Serbia, has so far been governed by the 1980 Law on the Movement and Stay of Foreigners, which was largely exceeded in terms of asylum, i.e. this institute did not provide an adequate legal framework for resolving the law. By adopting the Law on Asylum, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia will fully comply with, above all, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and numerous international acts in this area, which are: the Convention on the Status of Refugees of the 1950s with the 1967 Protocol, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the 1948 Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms of the 1950s, the Convention against Torres and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures of 1984, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989 and the relevant EU Directive. Under the proposed concept, asylum is any protection that our country provides to foreigners based on shelter (means, refugees) or subsidiary protection of persons who do not have the right to shelter, but who have the right to protection under other international conventions, means, temporary protection, protection against cruel punishment, inhumane treatment, torture, and if they are from countries where violence of general proportions exists, if there are armed conflicts or mass violations of human rights in their countries. The adoption of the asylum law is one of the conditions for joining the EU and a step towards putting Serbia on the "white Schengen" list. For the first time in our legal practice, the new asylum law is detailedly governing a special administrative procedure. This procedure is significant in two segments. First of all, the procedure is fully adapted to the specific situation of asylum seekers and their needs, but, on the other hand, the need for the state to protect itself from possible mass abuses of the right to asylum. The Institute of Asylum, and this should be pointed out in particular, because of the right to stay and protection that is provided throughout the process for asylum seekers at a permanent target of illegal migrants from around the world. Because of this fact, European countries have built in their legislation an efficient protection system which we have also incorporated into our law. The best European practice on protection and state, as well as people seeking asylum, is embedded in our bill of law. The proposal for an asylum law educates three specific bodies participating in the asylum issue process. The first to decide in the first degree is the asylum office that is part of the MUP. She's conducting, like I said, a first-degree procedure. The second body is the asylum commission, defined by the government, which makes all other decisions. The Asylum Centre is part of the Commissioner for Refugees, in which asylum seekers are provided accommodation, nutrition and other living conditions throughout the process. In the process of applying the restrictions on movement, judicial protection has also been provided to applicants, as it is prescribed that the appeal of a decision to determine a stay at a stranger's shelter under enhanced police supervision in an emergency procedure be resolved by the competent district court within 180 days. Up until now, UNHCR has decided on the right to asylum and 652 asylum requests have been filed for data from 2000. I must say that if this bill is passed, the Law on Asylum of Serbia-Montenegro, which was only a framework law and a legal basis for the adoption of republican laws, ceases to apply. Given the complexity and scope of the preparations necessary for the application of this law, it will apply from 1 April 2008. As far as the parliamentary issue of the Radeta MPs is concerned, in the morning, 32 persons who were members of the organized criminal group were deprived of their freedoms. During 2001 and 2002, they took part in simulated multilateral compensations by reporting fictitious obligations, and since 2005, 2006 and 2007, they have made up fictitious documents, which depicted the transport of goods and services, and have created an illusion that real jobs have been created. The criminal group's bearers are Milan Kuzmanov of Pozarec and Dragan Ignjatovic, the responsibilities of the JKP's "City Cleanness" from Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10535	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the SRS is MP Petar Jojic, the authorised SPS representative Rajko Baralic and LDP authorised representative Milena Stankovic. I'm asking, do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Petar Jojic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the first part, I want to look back at the history of asylum so that we can understand it in a better light, and on the other hand, that it can be counted on to apply a certain law that is before the MPs. Azil comes from the Greek word "allylon", which marks the giving of shelter and protection to the persecuted for certain ideas and ideals; originally it refers to a sacred shelter in which the persecuted found refuge in the escape from blood revenge. In ancient times these shelters were temples and shrines dedicated to the gods, and in the Middle Ages churches and monasteries. According to Dusan's law, the right of asylum was enjoyed by anyone who ran from the station and took refuge in the royal court. He went straight to asylum. In medieval Kotor, let us remind ourselves of the celebration of St. Trifun on February 3rd, all the defendants enjoyed the right of asylum three days before and three days after the holiday. How was that in Dubrovnik? In Dubrovnik, the Law on the Right of Asylum was passed. In Serbia, regulations were passed in the 19th century, foreigners enjoyed the right to asylum in Serbia as well. This right has been particularly applied for national, political reasons, and has been particularly used by citizens because of their nationality and political perceptions that sought unification with Serbia. Serbia adopted on January 20th 1860 asylum regulations and special rules on the assessment of deviations and treatment of fugitives. In the period between the two world wars, the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in addition to recognising asylum to Russian emigrants, provided asylum to refugees of Yugoslav origin from the Julian province, Hungarian emigrants after the asphyxiation of the Hungarian revolution, further, in 1919, persecuted Bulgarian citizens after the murder of Alexander Stamboliski, 1923, Jews persecuted by Nazi terror and others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how is that by international law? In modern international law, asylum rights signifies the right of political culprits to shelter and protection in a foreign country. The right of asylum does not include all perpetrators of criminal acts. In international law, territorial and diplomatic asylum differ. Territorial asylum takes into account the refuge and protection that foreign countries provide in their territory to the political culprit of another country. Diplomatic asylum is based on fiction on the externality of foreign embassies, i.e. diplomatic representations or warships. Diplomatic asylum was particularly in the practice of the state of South America, so the right of asylum is therefore legally regulated there in Havana on 20 February 1928 and the Convention in Karakas in 1954. What is regulated by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, agreed by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 1948? It means only territorial asylum, because it declares that everyone has the right to seek and enjoy other countries' refuge from persecution, crime, as provided for in Article 14. However, according to the Convention on the Position of Refugees, which was adopted at the initiative of the UN General Assembly in Geneva in 1951, and entered into force in 1954, the Contracting States made a commitment that, for justified reasons, the country of first asylum could cancel the hospitality of refugees, but cannot return it to a country where his life and his freedom would be threatened. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, the right to asylum can limit every country for reasons of its security and its economic interests, as well as the reasons for international criminal law. If diplomatic asylum is disputed in theory, because it is considered to have no formal legal basis, it is in practice a general right of international law and is therefore applicable. This was especially seen after the events in Hungary in 1956 when Cardinal Minsenti found refuge at the US Embassy, and Imre Nadj and other members at the embassy at the time of the SFRY. Diplomatic asylum was provided by other embassies, the Brazilian embassy in Lisbon, when it gave asylum to Portuguese General Delgad in 1959. Under the constitution of the former SFRY, the right was guaranteed to foreign citizens and citizens without citizenship who were persecuted for their efforts for democratic views and movements, for social, national liberation, for freedom and human rights and for freedom of scientific and artistic creation. Under the constitution, former SFRY's criminal legislation has been explicitly pointed out that Yugoslavia will not issue foreigners who have been persecuted for their efforts for the democratic principles of national liberation, the rights of the people and freedom of scientific and cultural work. The term "azil" in the legal and technical and grammatical sense has the meaning of a social institution, for example, a home for housing, the preservation of poverty, the sudden and persecuted faces of others, particularly the enemy-oriented ones, as was the case with Serbs and their suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now refer individually to certain provisions of the asylum law. In Article 1 The bill proposes that this law prescribes principles, conditions and procedures for obtaining and ending asylum, as well as the position, rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum and persons who have been granted the right of asylum in the Republic of Serbia. However, the SRS considers that the proposal of Article 1 should be amended because it did not cover the basic principles proposed in the basic law, as provided for by international conventions and international standards. In the view and opinion of the SRS, Article 1 should be amended and it should read: "This law prescribes the principles, conditions and procedures for the recognition of asylum... "I would ask the minister to pay attention. Mr. Minister, I apologize, but just a little bit of attention, so much so that you should be in the process of why the SRS feels it is necessary to change Article 1 and in what parts. The SRS considers... "This law prescribes the principles, conditions and procedures for," according to the proposal, however, this member is incomplete as planned, because we Serbian radicals believe it should add: "recognition of asylum and approval of temporary protection", which is not covered by the first member, is not covered by the status of "status, rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum, asylum seekers and foreigners who are granted temporary protection", is not intended as temporary protection, "as well as the conditions and procedure for the abolition of asylum seekers' status and for the suspension of the temporary protection of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. "In our opinion, this member should be trained legally, defined as the SRS considers it, because it is only possible in general to be applicable. As for the provision in Article 2, in the part that regulates "unaccompanied minor", we believe that the number "18" should be changed in the word "eighty". That's the definition of legal. The words "coming to the Republic of Serbia" should be changed in the words "entry into Serbia", because you will have in your proposal and other provisions in one place to mention entering into the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The word "coming" is replaced by the word "entry." Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Article 5. The SRS believes that it should change and read: "The competent authorities of Articles 19, 20 and 21 of this law co-operate with the UNHCR in carrying out its activities, in accordance with its mandate". Mr. Minister, this is where the UNHCR was said, but it is not precise that co-operation with the UNHCR could only be within his mandate. If it comes out of the mandate there are abuses, there's spying, there's intelligence agencies, there's crime, and there's damage to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. As regards the provisions of Article 6(1), we also have a proposal to upgrade the law, to improve its text, because we propose that Article 6 paragraph 1 of the item at the end of the line be replaced by a comma and the words "if the competent authority in the procedure and the facts are established", which means that you cannot accept someone's statement, he said, expressed the will to seek asylum and asylum. No, those facts have to be established in the process. They must be pre-determined. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Article 3rd is concerned, we believe that, at the end of this position, the point should be replaced by a comma, where it is said – unless the competent authority re-established in the procedure. As regards the provisions of the proposed law in Article 8, we have objections and we propose to build and improve the text. In Article 8, the words "no delay" (that is one thing) are replaced by the words "right away", there is no other. For this "without delay" someone who applies it can say – I found out three days ago, and without delay, I can postpone it for another 15 days or a month, to solve a person's question. So, at that point, it means, right now. We suggest that the words, in my opinion, be added after the word "valid reasoning", that is the definition, grammar, logic and language, "and valid evidence". Not a valid explanation, but a valid evidence, because here it must be borne in mind that the legal norm must be clear, and the language of the norm precise and in the spirit of the matter being processed. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards Article 10, in the position of 2nd, following the word "UNHCR", the rest of the text should be deleted, because everything behind this word "UNHCR" is too high, the law will be absolutely incomprehensible, and the definition should be clear and easy to apply. The law should not be burdened with unnecessary words and content. The definition of laws and norms must be brief and clear, so that those applying it can apply it in practice. As regards the provision of the proposed Article 11, the SRS considers this to be in Article 11(1) – "or in a language which can be agreed" absolutely wrong. I'm telling you it's not good and it's not properly defined. In our opinion, the language, grammatically and logically should be "or in a language that man understands". This is what we believe is necessary to correct and supplement. As for Article 13, I would also suggest that this member be changed. In Article 13, the proposal states: “All letters in the procedure shall be delivered personally to a person seeking asylum or to his legal representative. It shall be deemed to have been delivered in writing when received by any of those persons. "I can tell you from my long-standing practice, as far as I know the judiciary, the delivery service, and as much as the representative is responsible for the damage that can be done to the asylum lawyer, an unconscious representative can miss, can be found in a difficult situation tomorrow. That is why we propose: "All the letters in the procedure are delivered personally to a person seeking asylum or to his legal representative in a language he understands. It is writtenly considered to have been delivered when it was received by an asylum-seeking person," but not when it was received by his representative, because his representative can miss certain actions, which can cost a fat asylumist. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards Article 14, Article 14 is not well defined logically, legally and linguistically. You, in article 14, say, the person seeking asylum will be provided. No, that word is not good, but we suggest that the grammar, logic and language be better applied, and that means in Article 14 paragraph 1, the word "will be provided" is replaced by the words "will be provided". Please, here, ask the grammarists, the people, so you can see. You may think this isn't good, but we think this little intervention can still be done, because it's not superfluous. As for Article 19, Article 19 provides for the 3rd position that the interior minister, in the further text of the minister, is to regulate the conditions and criteria for officials who carry out the duties of the asylum office more closely. In the opinion of the SRS, the minister cannot form a ministry. The ministry is an institution, the minister can be absent, he can go to sick leave. Something could happen to him. He can resign until the election of the new minister takes a very long time. In that case, the ministry as an institution is doing so, and the minister is, of course, monitoring and controlling it, but it is part of the ministry. There's an intervention in Article 20, Mr. Minister, which should be considered. I've studied this in parallel law and it's in parallel law applied. In Article 20, we foresee that Article 2 should be added, which should read: "The Commission's decision on asylum can be followed by administrative proceedings before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia". Allow, therefore, that there is also a need to provide judicial protection in the asylum process. Please, our citizens, especially these poor people and our martyrs, whom between 800,000 and 1,000, from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Croatia, who came to their brothers, have found refuge... In any case, it is possible to find someone who does not understand their suffering and that the authorities involved and the asylum commission are deafened about their interests and national interests of the Serbian people and citizens. In that case, the citizen has the right, according to the Constitution, to seek judicial protection. So, since we don't have an administrative court, we still don't have a cassation court, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, you know that we haven't chosen a cassation court yet, that's one institution that needs to replace the Supreme Court, but since we don't have that administrative court to solve it then, at least if we need to amend and supplement it, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. That's the opinion of the SRS. Can I have a few more sentences? (President: here you go. ) In Article 20(4), the word "members" is replaced by "members". It's not a good word in here. Namely, the legal norm must be, as I said, clear language understood and in the spirit of matter that it regulates. As for Article 22 (I apologize, Mr. Vice President, just a few more words, if you'll excuse me), there is something that has been missed and which is allowed in parallel. Please, we believe that Article 22(1) needs to be changed. When border control enters the Republic of Serbia or within its territory, a stranger can take a written path to seek asylum in every police administration, because, as suggested, it is not so normised, but should come before a commission in Belgrade or in front of a police administration. In our opinion, however, when he entered the country of Serbia in Sutotica, he should have the right to apply immediately to the first police station. This would expose citizens to unnecessary harassment and cost. What's that clerk doing taking them in? Not to tell him -- he said, there is no -- he said, a stranger seeking refuge must make a written statement, submit a written request, and an official to forward it immediately without delay to a competent authority that resolves asylum rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to take the time, I'll get involved later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10537	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have a word. Who wants to move on? We're going in a row of MPs. According to Article 93(4), until the opening of a search for a word in writing, SRS, DSS - NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, SPS, LDP and Vojvodjanski MPs group were sent. The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word - he is not present. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10538	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to say in this law that this is a very important matter... Your Honor, I'm sorry, I forgot your presence. I apologize for that. I wanted to say that this is a very important law because this law practically decides for the first time that it is not a refugee because it has been avoided but because it needs to be given refugee status and that there is a certain procedure. So it's about foreign citizens or persons who have no citizenship and the protection of their rights and the granting of status through the asylum process. So someone can't be a refugee just by saying it, but now we get one law, after a long time. I have to say that we are late to pass this law because all the countries in the region have passed this law, and we are just doing it now. Just to draw attention to you for one moment, that Montenegro passed this asylum law on June 4th, 2006, and here we bring it now. Okay... Please don't throw it away. (President: Please, Mr. Markovic, for your attention.) ) I just want to say that it's good that this is on the agenda of the Assembly, because although the law has significant shortcomings, it is the first such law. Many other countries in the region have been correcting the law over time and supplementing it, so our parliamentary club believes that in principle such a law should be adopted, with some of the shortcomings of this law being removed. So I would point out now some possibility to move the repairs of this law. I would point out the most important problem of protecting foreign citizens and persons without citizenship seeking asylum, which I would draw attention to to Mr. Minister because this could be improved. The word is that there is a first-degree office at the MUP to approve asylum. If an appeal to the asylum commission is filed, there is no article 35, please note that the complaint to be filed means that the second-degree commission formed by the Government has no effect on the suspension of the first-degree decision. So, it could happen that when your office at the asylum department refuses the person, and he file a complaint, it could be expelled, without being able to suspend that complaint and wait for the second-degree decision of the government commission. I ask you to take this very seriously, considering why it seriously violates the rights of refugees and people who need to get that status and then be taken care of by one particular, regular procedure. I mention this because Serbia really has a large number of refugees. She was in these situations. So if we don't protect these people's rights and that status doesn't get one really valid procedure, that person won't be protected enough. Therefore, I ask you to insert in Article 35 a suspension of the appeal from the first-degree procedure so that the decision of the asylum commission to be held by the Government may be awaited. I would also draw attention to the problem in this same procedure that after a second-degree commission formed by the government there is no direction for those persons to whom to turn afterwards. So, generally speaking, that would be the courts. The Croatian law states that such a person can address the administrative court. Since there is still no administrative court in Serbia, it would not be worse to say the next drug could be to address the Supreme Court, the administrative department. Yeah, but it doesn't stand in the law, so I showed this inconsistencies in protecting the procedure and getting the status itself because a person, when it's not in the law, doesn't know who to turn to afterwards. I suggest that this also be complemented by one of the instructions in the law that such a person may address the Supreme Court, the work for administrative proceedings. This is a very important recommendation because it really affects the protection of the rights of refugees in obtaining status and receiving asylum. It should also be said that there is a major problem and as far as transitional provisions are concerned, where legal aid is concerned. It's not clear, Mr. Minister, how legal aid is provided because a person entering the country should... I could read to you what my suggestion is – it should be said that the person seeking asylum has the right to free legal assistance, because it is not clear enough in this law that you have given, and will be taught all the rights and obligations in the asylum procedure, with the possibility of addressing UNHCR and persons providing legal assistance and humanitarian organisations dealing with refugee protection. It is mentioned that such organisations, humanitarian and non-governmental organisations, can participate, but there is no law on the provision of legal aid, nor is it regulated to participate in these important NGOs, humanitarian organisations in providing legal assistance. I think it's very important because if someone doesn't have information about it, if they don't have free legal aid, how will that person ever manage when it comes to such complicated legislative procedures? Finally, I'd like to refer you to one more thing, when it comes to the country of origin and the formation of the list. You know that any state that adopts such a law, that the government is obliged to update the list, because for a person seeking asylum, it must be clear, according to some objective criteria, that it is really endangered, because that is what this law is about. It is that individuals are at risk in their own countries or without citizenship, but in their country they can be exposed to torture, persecution, closure, for example Serbs in Croatia or anyone else who has such a problem. If that is the case, there must be one criterion that it could indeed have been exposed to such a threat in such a country of origin. The government should form a list of countries, meaning not only in our region but also in others, refers to countries around the world. The Government, when forming that list, should explain on the basis of which criteria the countries of origin of the safe country of origin have reached a conclusion; it means that a person could be refused or accepted by an asylum. So it should be said explicitly that it must use information from international organisations, humanitarian organisations, all relevant sources, in order for that list to really be relevant in the right sense. If the government did, I hope they will and those lists will always be updated and that they will be really explained, I would... The law does not provide for the possibility that although one country is designated as a safe country of origin under certain criteria, it may in individual cases be a threat. So, even though it's not a country that's not on that list, it's not a country that would otherwise endanger human rights, I think a refugee seeking asylum can and must allow in an individual case to prove that she was exposed to certain persecution. So, here we are, sir, to supplement you, we could now place Croatia as a safe country of origin, but in a particular case, an individual may be subjected to persecution and that individual cases are taken into account in the procedure. I don't have to tell you any more that, let's say, who the family members are is given very restrictively; when it comes to full presentation, there are also some misunderstandings, it could be fixed. But these were the basic remarks that I have made because I believe, when it comes to implementing such an important law, that parliament has to worry about how this law is implemented and that, given the experience, based on the implementation of this law, together with these amendments that I have proposed here, it is constantly supplementing and perfecting the law on the rights of foreign citizens or persons without citizenship, or refugees, to be made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10539	Thank you. The word has the interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10540	Just for a very short time to avoid these misunderstandings. In Article 35. The bill is said – against first-degree decisions taken in the asylum proceedings, the appeal shall be lodged within 15 days of the date of the adoption of the first-degree decision. By law, in the administrative procedure, the appeal has a suspended fact, unless it is highlighted; therefore, any appeal is suspended. As far as judicial protection is concerned, Article 198. The Constitution – the legality of the final individual acts to which the law, obligation or law-based interest is to be decided shall be subject to review before the court in the administrative dispute. So there's also court protection. As far as this third issue is concerned, persons from secure countries, this is the reason why asylum is not obtained or the application is rejected, but it is not a reason because it does not exclude the possibility after hearing a person to be given asylum.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10541	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10542	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would say, although I suppose you all know it, in short, about the history of asylum. It appeared in two forms: firstly as giving asylum within a diplomatic building or space to persons who persecute territorial authorities, it is diplomatic asylum; the second is to give asylum to foreigners on the very territory of the country providing asylum, which is a broader concept of asylum or asylum in a broader sense. The first appearances of diplomatic asylum have been met since the 16th century, following the establishment of a system of permanent diplomatic missions. In the early 17th and 18th centuries, diplomatic asylum practices were fully adopted. In the 19th century, however, diplomatic asylum gradually loses the character of a general international law institution, so that this institution is completely shut down in the countries of Europe and North America, while in the 20th century it remains only to a certain extent in the countries of Latin America. So today, diplomatic asylum cannot be talked about as a general positive legal institution. The issue of asylum rights came before the International Court of Justice in 1950, and it concerns a decision on the dispute between Colombia and Peru of 20. 11. In 1950. The majority then took the view that even in the Latin American countries, there is no right to permanent diplomatic missions to grant diplomatic asylum, not even to political culprits, but only to grant such concessions on the basis of an international contract. Azil is considered a universally adopted institution in international law. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that each person has the right to seek asylum if prosecuted and to enjoy the same in other countries. The first seminar on asylum on refugee status, held in La Paz, Bolivia, from 19 April to 22 April 1983, showed a number of problems in connection with the world's modern development, even within the inter-American system, where an international asylum protection system was created. Dear People's MPs, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 97 and Article 15, regulates the position of foreigners, the entry and stay of foreigners and guarantees asylum to all foreign citizens and non-citizens who are being persecuted for their race, gender, language, religion, national belongings and for their political beliefs and for them explicitly says they must have a haven in the Republic of Serbia. The constitutional right of asylum to foreign citizens and stateless persons is also guaranteed in our criminal law, which prohibits the issuing of foreigners who enjoy the right to asylum. Foreign citizens, as well as stateless persons, cannot be extradited under our right, if the work for which the issue is sought is not intended as a criminal offence under the Serbian law. Extradition can't even be allowed according to people who are being persecuted for the sake of advocating democratic views and movements, for social and national liberation, for freedom and for the right of a human personality. Those persons in Serbia enjoy asylum under the provisions of the CAP. Extradition will not be granted for persons being prosecuted for military crimes either. Finally, the extradition will not be allowed if, for the work for which the issue is sought, it has taken place under domestic law and the limitations of criminal prosecution or the limitations of the sentence before the stranger is detained or questioned as guilty. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the fundamental feature of this bill, in our opinion, is great inaccuracy, inconsistency and inconsistencies. The language of certain members is inadequate in the matter being processed, and often, in addition to inaccuracy, inexplicability and indifference, even in the jargon, we have submitted a large number of amendments to be specified. I assume you will adopt most, which is the case with Articles 2, 38, 35, 26, 67, 11, 41, 22, 23, 13, 19, 10, 20 and 57. Also, I would say that almost all deadlines are inadequate, given the importance of the matter processed by this law, and in particular by Article 44, which recognises the subsidiary protection for accommodation, and for the longest year since you proposed, Mr. Minister, to the final solution that recognised the refugee status. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the state of Serbia must assist refugees, especially from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, BiH and the Republic of Croatia, who have been expelled by Ustasha terrorists, and has proposed a period of one year for accommodation and cash compensation. The aid should be longer and it should be five years, as suggested. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary, again, to provide judicial protection to asylum seekers, unlike the bill that does not provide for judicial protection of asylum, that is, Article 20, Mr. Minister. It's not in the law indicated. Protection as a refuge for foreigners is not adequately regulated by the bill, so the Serbian Radical Party has submitted more than 30 amendments to the total of 70 members of the law, around half, to improve the text of the law most well-intentionedly and to regulate this very important area in an adequate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10543	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and then a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10544	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the area of migration management policy, which falls within the area of asylum protection, is a very important and sensitive area, because it actually penetrates the area of human rights, and the area of human rights is something so sensitive that there is practically no man who, when he sees any document, sees no human rights status in it. That is why, in other countries of Europe, when laws of a similar type, which touch the area of human rights, indeed a fruitful discussion contributes to the full collection of the law and to being extraordinary. On the way to European integration, Serbia must build and bring its migration policy into line, respecting universal and European standards, but also respecting its national legislation. It is, of course, a very demanding, complicated process that involves a strategic approach to know exactly what we want in a large group of laws and how to connect them and require full coordination of all the competent authorities. I must remind you, we adopted the Readmission Act a few days ago, which showed that we actually want to be responsible and systematically arranged and take care of the returnees, our citizens from Western Europe. The legal framework that regulates asylum issues in our country is over 30 years old or about 30 years old. In fact, in many segments it is quite outdated and is quite inapplicable to the situation in which the state is presently located. Some of his provisions actually cannot be fully applied. The bill before us has long been prepared and some of its elements are contained in documents from the time of the state of Serbia-Montenegro and which I will mention at this point. First of all, this refers to Serbia's National Strategy for Serbia-Montenegro's EU accession in the migration-related department, where the limitation of the rules governing the foreign area and the lack of legal regulation in the area of asylum protection, although Serbia has been a transit country, has been and has remained, migrants from Asia and Africa to Western Europe. The strategy clearly expresses the need for the asylum protection system to be rounded up by the adoption of the law. The need to regulate the rights of foreigners through new regulations and new solutions has been clearly demonstrated. relevant recommendations are given to improve the situation in this area. The next document I will mention is the decision of the EU Council of 30. 01. In 2006, on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European partnership with Serbia-Montenegro, including Kosovo and Metohija, and according to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the suspension of the importance of the 2004 decision on the issue of visas, border control, asylum and migration. All of this is set into very short-term priorities, which means reform is needed and this reform needs to be implemented quickly. In the framework of the Stability Pact of Southeast Europe, the "Mari" programme, a regional action plan for Western Balkan countries was presented in Thessaloniki in June 2003, presenting solutions for better quality management of migration and asylum problems, refugee returns, integrated border protection and the establishment of an acceptable visa solution in this area. Why is this document important? For the first time, focus is shifted with a humanitarian approach to solving refugees' problems of integrated access to citizenship, then tools are being set up to control illegal migration and to control the flow of people and goods. Finally, integrated border management is established. This programme also provides strategic and operational goals that Western Balkan countries are implementing independently with the support of the European Commission and the Karc programme. The adoption of these national action programmes is, in fact, the first step towards bringing the Western Balkan countries' legislation into line with EU legislation in this area. In the area of harmonisation of asylum rights, the regional action programme provides for the following priorities: establishing uniform standards for the reception of asylum seekers, access to legal aid, the obligation to accept persons who do not meet the conditions for regulating their status in countries where they are illegally staying, the obligation to create conditions for the integration of persons who have received asylum, refugees and internally displaced persons and the creation of conditions for the special protection of women and children of asylum seekers. I quote all of this because it is very important to observe later how much the bill that is before us is in line with all that I have stated. One of the conditions of harmonisation is the adoption of a single, fair and effective asylum-examination procedure that would apply not only to persons who meet the conditions for recognition of protection under the Geneva Convention, but also to asylum seekers who meet the conditions for temporary protection or protection for humanitarian reasons. Temporary protection would be guaranteed, of course, only in cases of exodus of a large number of people, in these cases of social, racial, religious or national dangers and threats. The second category, according to Europe's standards, consists of persons who have left the country of origin because of a fundamental fear of being exposed to torture, inhumane or humiliating procedure. The programme particularly puts an emphasis on the education of professional services, in fact on the existence of institutional and technical capacities. When it comes to women and children, given the sensitivity of the Western Balkans area, which represents a transit area and a hub for the smuggling of women and children, the lack of additional guarantees in the asylum-seeking process at the request of women and children of asylum seekers, especially children who are not accompanied by minors, is a particular reason for concern, and there is a good solution here in the law. Another daunting circumstance is that this complex process of unifying our legislation, political approach and practice of conduct takes place in the context of terrorism, xenophobia and extreme nationalism that is being overcome, indeed, over a large part of Europe. All of these are the circumstances in which Serbia has worked to pass the bill that is before us, which actually shows that Serbia has a clear position and wants full regulation when it comes to defining migration management policy and that this position is in line with European standards and our legislation in this area. The proposal for an asylum law prescribes the principles, conditions and procedures for obtaining and ending asylum, as well as the position, rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum and persons admitted to the right of asylum in Europe. By passing an asylum law, our legal system would agree with a number of international documents in this area, I will only mention some, and I think that this is very important because we are also signatories of many of these documents, and so far we have not put too much into the legislation the principles of these documents. We have the Convention on the Status of Refugees, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel and inhumanely humiliating penalties and procedures, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The law is one of the conditions for joining the EU and a step closer for Serbia to be on the Schengen White List. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the asylum law is laid down in Article 97 of points 5 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the position of foreigners and organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities. I must stress the basic principles that make this bill considered to be very good. It's actually, you can see here, it's based on the most democratic creations, on respect for human rights. It is about the principle of banning or returning, the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of punishment for illegal entry and stay, the principle of family unity, the principle of information and legal assistance. One of the previous speakers mentioned that there was no free legal aid in the law. In fact, it is very clear that this item stands in law, because it is one of the principles on which the principle of legal aid was drawn up. Then, the principle of free translation, the principle of free access to the UNHCR High Commissioner, the principle of personal delivery, the principle of gender equality, the principle of caring for people with special needs, the principle of representing unaccompanied minors and business incompetent people, I drew attention to this part, and the principle of confidentiality. With a number of extremely good solutions related to the asylum procedure, time, deadlines, competent authorities that are taxed, it is known exactly who is doing what and for what it is responsible, I must also point out the right to accommodation in the asylum centre, the right to the health care of foreigners, the right to free basic and secondary education, the right to social assistance, the right to protection of intellectual property, free access to courts, legal aid, the right to freedom of religion, the right to work, the right to permanent residence and freedom of movement, to association, to mobile and immovable property. Indeed, I have listed almost all the principles and it is very important to say that these are indeed the highest EU standards. I find it particularly interesting to have a family reunion, i.e. a person entitled to shelter shall be entitled to join with members of his family, as well as in the case of temporary protection. That, as far as I'm concerned, is an extremely good solution, which is really based on Europe's high standards. Then, the bill clarifies precisely the reasons why the person seeking asylum restricts movement, as well as the place where that person resides while measures are being taken to limit movement. The proposal also speaks of all types of documents received by persons in the asylum process and the type of records the Ministry of the Interior has on it. So, all in all, we have a really good proposal for an asylum law, which extremely treats the area of human rights, relys not only on parts of our legislation that are extremely good and high-quality, but on the EU's highest standards in this area, respects an extremely wide range of human rights diapases, and the DSS will vote on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10545	The People's Messenger Ninoslav Dimitrijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10546	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, primarily the SPS wants to point out that this law has far more importance than could be said at first sight. In particular, he cares primarily about special categories of people, which are asylum seekers, which are refugees, and offers certain solutions such as asylum, temporary accommodation, temporary protection in the form of shelters or even in the form of subsidiary protection. The very fact that the provisions of this law will not apply immediately after the vote, not within eight days, but that the provisions of this law will apply from 1 April 2008 in favour of the complexity of this problem, says in favour of the state being seriously prepared because there is another serious problem ahead. As the law explains, because of the complexity and scope of the preparations necessary for the application of the provisions of this law, all these preparations will be affected by many segments of society, hence many ministries and many activities in the country. First of all, it will affect the activities of the Ministry of Interior, then activities in the Ministry of Health, the Commissioner for Refugees, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. And then there's what's inevitable, and that's professional personnel training. It will really need very professional personnel, who will really deal with major problems, with various social categories of people who will turn to help. The further the state waits, it is the security of housing facilities (meaning Article 44) for those who receive temporary protection and the provision of certain financial assistance precisely to address the housing issues of those people whom the state could not provide housing facilities. The state also assumes the obligation of family integration conditions, as members of the 49th and 50th of this law say. What the state is also waiting for is the establishment of an asylum commission, as well as an asylum office. Why not, here, this is the proposal of the SPS, along with the asylum office, form the office of the citizens' protectors, since these people are in trouble, above all, because of violations of human and minority rights, human rights and freedoms. Given the specificity of the protection of citizens, we do not see why he would not play his part in solving and helping the state solve these problems. Article 36 is causing a lot of confusion. In fact, it is an emergency situation in the country, and it clearly says that the possible mass arrival of people is envisaged and it is said that emergency situations that can happen, that in these cases it is impossible to implement an individual procedure for the right to asylum – temporary protection will be provided in accordance with the social, economic and other possibilities of the Republic of Serbia and the government decides on that. Here's an opportunity to point to that social, economic moment in the country. I ask whether Serbia has not condemned itself but to an emergency that is being announced and expected, which is a readmission; under the readmission agreement, between 50,000 and 150 thousand people will come, will be admitted to the state. So apparently two problems that are different can be over-melted and projected by each other, and in what way? First of all, because there is no platform, there is no strategy to solve the first problem, so this problem, I'm afraid, will be translated into this second one, which is next. Who guarantees that third-country nationals will not seek asylum, since they are persons who do not want a third country or country of origin, and neither will Europe? What's their solution? They will seek a solution in the state of Serbia. Then, people without citizenship, who have given up their country of origin, or who do not have a country of origin at the moment, which also Europe will not and will also address the Republic of Serbia. Now we have a situation that is a real, very difficult situation for these people. Unlike, for example, since the situation before 2000, when many of our citizens were somehow forced to seek asylum and abuse for political purposes out there in Europe, now these people are returning from Europe, now appearing in Serbia, instead of in Europe, those people who are really in such a problem. These two problems will unfortunately have indications on each other and here is the opportunity for the SPS to show that it has been considering the problems of the state, that it has tried in some way not to solve the problems of the state, but rather to solve the problems of the citizens, precisely with this previous reading process when it has tried in some way to limit the reception of these people from the EU, to channel this reception in some way, primarily on a monthly and annual level, to determine in some way what final number of these people will be possible to receive. Finally, what is most important is financial assistance from the Council of Europe Development Bank and a 200,000-euro guarantee Serbia could use in this case. There are many more aspects to address this problem, but given that other fellow MPs from our parliamentary circle want to talk about it, I will interrupt to give them my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10547	National MP Rajko Baralic, an authorised representative of the SPS, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10548	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I'll use the first ten minutes. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our country signed an asylum agreement back in 1980, and this is the order of those countries that respected the rights of foreign citizens, citizens of other countries who had some of the problems that make people potential asylum seekers, to find their refuge and security here, which was not common for some other countries in our environment that are now EU members. The Law on Asylum is depicted and depicts a dozen international agreements in this area, and there is little to take away or add. The Socialist Party of Serbia has written a dozen amendments to the bill and we appreciate that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the minister, will accept some of these amendments, which may also define our actions in voting for the law. Why was this question delicate before? Because it was thought that when you received someone, when you gave someone asylum, you would interfere with the internal affairs of another country. So it was usually the usual thing and it happened and it still happens, it wasn't the case here, but this opens up some other questions. Let me also talk about this law in the context of a few laws. We have already discussed the Law on Reading, on visa relief, on some other laws that have a similar character and let me say that if a man wanted to be politically insightful or well-informed, then he could say – given that in EU countries the power is held by the democratic and ultra-right parties, they had strong requirements for some other countries such as ours to implement this readmission process as soon as possible, and today with a clear insistence that a new law on asylum is being adopted they open up formal space that countries which, in some sense, have accepted a number of asylum seekers who would definitely become asylum seekers of those countries. Let us, we are concerned with politics here and let us observe it, although I do not dispute the desire, nor the right, nor the need for our country to pass such a law and ensure dignity, housing, health care, education, security of all those persons who, for reasons defined by the law, seek asylum, sanctuary, subsidiary protection in one of the countries like ours. Here we are also asking a few questions that hopefully we will get answers: who are, in fact, potential asylum seekers, how many have so far sought asylum in our country, how many have received asylum? Does our country take certain security risks by adopting this law? If, for example, it provides shelter, asylum, or subsidiary protection for Kurds or some other unfortunate people who have a problem they have today in the countries they live in, can it have certain security implications for our citizens or in some international relations that are not relevant to us? These are questions to which Serbian citizens should be answered, and MPs, as their representatives in the highest representative home. A part of these jobs so far has been carried out by one of the MUP sectors, part of the Refugee Commissioner. For us here, it would be important that when this law is adopted several questions are precisely defined and that practice is such that it does not harm the citizens of our country and any aspect of the security and rights used by our citizens, in terms of health care, personal and property security, housing rights, right to education in the native language in primary and secondary schools. These are all rights guaranteed by this law to asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Allow me to comment on Article 20 - the asylum commission decides in the second degree by appeal to the decisions of the asylum office and consists of eight members of the commission appointed by the Government for the first four years, etc. It would make more sense for me to appoint this committee as the National Assembly, for a number of reasons, but this is not the only time that the National Assembly doesn't have the place I think it belongs to. Let me, Mr. Minister, in Article 31, point 2 - reasons for denying asylum, it is said this way: "The right to asylum will not be recognised to persons who have serious reasons to be considered", and two says, "it has committed a serious crime that is not political character". Please, I don't understand this. Does this mean that if a person in his country for political reasons killed a minister or another high-ranking official and said it was for political reasons, I know it won't happen, but the law is a miracle, could it mean that our country could then provide shelter and such persons? For me, this is undefined, vague, there are certain risks that are here, in my opinion, unnecessary because, let me, I don't know what a crime that isn't political character is. Crime is a crime. When a person commits a crime, it can kill, steal, sell another person, smuggle drugs, execute an assassination. Who's the one who says what a crime of political character is? I didn't hear that there was a crime of political character, or I didn't hear that someone committed a crime, that he tried to characterise it as such, and that's why he didn't answer. I don't know about that case. I think this is in our law... Well, Gabriel principle has been arrested, as you know; it's not true. Mr. Minister, under V - Temporary Protection, Article 36: "In the case of mass arrival of persons from a country in which their life, safety or freedom is threatened by violence of general proportions, external aggression, internal armed conflicts, mass violations of human rights or other circumstances seriously disrupting the public order, when there is no possibility of individual procedures for the right to asylum... "What does mass mean? Is it 100, 150, 1,500, 15,000? Who's the one who estimates this to be a mass character? For us, this is important, and I believe that this is undefined and that it can have negative consequences both for the work of this commission and for the work of the asylum office because it's left in the field of discretion for someone to assess what's mass. Because it's mass to me when 50 people come. It's not common. Or when 10 people come. The last question I have for this announcement concerns the rights of asylum seekers and others, I don't know which member, that I'm not looking for, that's joining the family. So, Mr. Minister, this, as far as I'm concerned, is very humane, but it can be very problematic, because it can be formally for you to have one man become an asylum person and then for the reasons that he states, and whose circumstances are declared by the asylum office, to bring in another 50 members of the family, because there are families from countries that can simply seek asylum in our country, which have 50 members, that I don't list them. Last question, what about the children of asylum seekers born in our country? Are they, in accordance with our legislation, citizens of our country and have our citizenship or fall under this member who says it's a family reunion? So that's a few questions. I'll use the next 10 minutes when the debate is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10549	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the matter we're processing today is a very serious matter and it's... There's no paper here, I always talk out of my head, so there's no need to get into it. So it is a serious matter that, to this day, has not been properly regulated in our legislation, so it was necessary to pass one of these laws. There are three reasons why such a law should have been passed. One of the reasons is that by adopting the Constitution last year, we reached out to asylum matter and guaranteed by the Constitution the rights of persons with refugee status, so it was necessary to develop this and now specifically by law. The second reason is that our country has signed numerous conventions, agreements and declarations that regulate this matter. By signing these conventions and by ratifying them, it has become mandatory for the matter that these declarations and conventions contain to be incorporated into their legislation. The third reason that no one here mentioned, and I think it's also important, is that in the not so distant history of our country we had the opportunity to have asylum seekers in both directions. A large number of people from our country go to other countries seeking refugee status, but we also remember only Romania during Ceausevski, for example, a good part of foreigners and foreign citizens coming to our country and seeking asylum. So we had a substance that wasn't adequately regulated, and it's a real opportunity for this matter to be fully regulated by one law. That's exactly the legal proposal we have in front of us. Indeed, the Asylum Act is a comprehensive legal act covering this matter as a whole, and which in itself integrates all the problems that the process is, above all, the problem of asylum, and then all the procedures necessary to resolve this issue. All conventions, agreements and declarations that our country has joined and ratified are adequately covered by this law. Our colleague, Milica Vojić-Markovic, has more than exhaustively covered this matter, citing what conventions are and the reasons for the law being passed, so that I would no longer remain on this issue. Given that other discussions were more than relevant and indeed directed in the right direction and in the direction of support for this law and regulation of this matter, I would refer to several provisions which I consider important when it comes to this law. It's the second chapter - basic principles. There are 13; not so little for one regulation. I think it's important to lay out these principles and say a little bit more about them, for the simple reason that they represent a compound, on the one hand, the reasons why these laws should be passed, and on the other hand, what is contained in the law itself. In fact, the specific matter that this law regulates requires and strictly lists the principles on which it is based and also explains these principles, given that the law itself begins with an explanation of the whole set of concepts mentioned in the law. The principles on which this law is based are: 1st ban on exile or return. This principle says that no person must be expelled or returned against his will in a territory where his life or freedom would be threatened by his race, gender, language, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or political attitudes. Under this principle, there is one exception: if it is a person who can be considered to be a threat to the security of the country or who has been convicted by a judicial verdict of a serious crime and poses a threat to the legal order, it is possible not to recognise asylum to such a person. Article 3 of the same article fully excludes this case. Therefore, if there is a reasonable doubt that such a person would be subjected to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment in a country on whose territory it would eventually be returned, such a person in such cases will not be returned to the territory from which he has escaped. Therefore, the full principle of banning or returning is covered by Article 6 of this Act. Then there is the principle of non-discrimination, which is already mentioned, and I will be very brief. Therefore, any discrimination on any basis is prohibited, regardless of whether it is race, colour, gender, nationality, social origin, property, political or other conviction, language, culture, age, birth, religion. This is a very important and important principle, which has often been violated in many cases. That is why its entry into this law is of great importance in this very place within other principles. Furthermore, the principle of impunity for illegal entry or stay. The largest number of asylum seekers would enter our country's territory without adequate travel or other documents, or enter the country in one illegal way, and therefore no special procedure will be conducted for such persons if these persons, when entering and staying in the Republic of Serbia without delay, submit a request for asylum. So that's one condition. The second condition is to provide a valid explanation for their illegal entry and stay in the country. Furthermore, the principle of family unity, which has already been pointed out by several speakers before me and which is also significant. It is important that at the time of the application for asylum, as well as in the asylum procedure, it should be pointed out here that even after receiving asylum in every way, the law tends to bring together persons from one family, if they are possibly separated. Therefore, persons granted asylum have the right to join the family, in accordance with the provisions of this law. The following principle would be the principle of information and legal assistance. It mentioned that the principle of legal aid was not adequately regulated, which is not true. Therefore, Article 10 has provided the right to a stranger who has expressed his intention to seek asylum in the Republic of Serbia to be timely informed of all his rights and obligations based on the status of asylum seekers throughout the process. He was also provided with free legal assistance, both by our authorities and by NGOs, or UNHCR, if that person wishes any legal assistance from these persons. We still have the principle of free translation. People who do not understand our language, who are likely to be such, have the right to use it, or to be provided by our country with appropriate translators who speak the language of the country from which they came, possibly some other languages they know. The principle of personal delivery – I think this principle of personal delivery is very important because it prevents possible abuse during the asylum proceedings. Namely, Articles 13. The law governing this principle has been regulated that all letters relating to the asylum proceedings have to be delivered to a person seeking asylum or to his authority designated by him, which means that he is fully assured that this person is aware of all decisions made during the asylum procedure in relation to him. The principle of gender equality – we already had it – is already discussed by other colleagues, and the point is that the person seeking asylum will be provided to be heard by the person of the same sex, i.e. the translator or interpreter who corresponds with him during the procedure will be the same sex, unless it is not possible, or it would be embossed with disproportionate difficulties. But there is one exception from this rule, too, to all those actions that involve physical contact with an asylum-seeking person, therefore, search, physical examinations and the like; in this case, there is an obligation of the State to provide the same half that these actions would carry out in the course of the proceedings. The principle of care for persons with special needs should be further mentioned. It is important to highlight minors, because it is very common for minors to seek asylum, persons completely or partially deprived of business skills, old persons, pregnant women, single parents with underage children, persons with disabilities; they will be taken into account in particular in the follow-up process, i.e. they will take care of the specific situation of these persons, the situation in which they are located and their psychophysical abilities. There is also the principle of representing unaccompanied minors and business incompetent persons, which is effectively implemented by this principle of care for persons with special needs. Then, the principle of directness, where it is prescribed that the person seeking asylum has the right to be heard orally and directly by authorised officials of the competent authority, the MUP, and that all relevant facts for the recognition of the right to shelter be notified. Finally, the last principle, which I would particularly like to highlight, is the principle of confidentiality. The asylum issue process is a very personal procedure, therefore, a procedure in which personal matters are presented, and as such is an official secret, which means that the authorities leading the asylum procedure cannot issue data to anyone. Namely, it is provided in which cases and where such data can be supplied. They cannot be disclosed to the country of origin of the asylum-seeking person, except for identification data, data on family members, data on documents issued by the country of origin, address of residence, fingerprints and photographs of that person. In this way, therefore, the principles themselves, as I stated at the beginning of my presentation, are guaranteed by the very principles of all rights of asylum seekers, on the one hand, for all those reasons why this substance is so specific, and further development of these principles through the law itself has allowed for the real, direct and complete protection of the person during the asylum proceedings. In the end, I would repeat once again that we really have a law that one whole hole in our legislation regulates, so the matter that has caused a lot of disputes and has not been adequately solved. By this law, we will have this problem in one place and completely solved. It's a good legal text, one of the best to come before this congregation in this congregation. It was written in a very clear language, completely systematic, with many good solutions, in line with the legislation both the EU and the countries in the environment and is expected to support all the parliamentary groups that exist in this House. The DSS-NS parliamentary group will, in any case, support this law, for the simple reason it is a good law that should be supported and it would be good if we and other laws were like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10551	The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have before us a proposal for an asylum law that, in addition to those basic provisions, shows certain inaccuracies because some expressions do not comply with some grammar norms. So, for example, the basic formulation that goes through the whole law, which is "a person seeking asylum", is not the happiest choice, because it can be concluded, and it can be pointed out that it is a person who does it as its constant activity. The purpose of this law is just the opposite. The purpose of the law is to prevent asylum seekers from seeing asylum as their profession, as their professional commitment. That is why this wording of "a person seeking asylum" should, in my opinion, be reshaped and it should be "an asylum seeker", but we will talk more about it through the amendments. What I've said so far is not the biggest flaw of this law. The greatest flaw in this law is that the whole text of the law is intertwined with terms: asylum, refugees and refugee. So it can be thought that behind the intertwination of these terms there is an intention to abolish the status of refugees and the status of displaced persons and to declare them asylum seekers, especially if it is known that refugee and internally displaced persons are largely removed. And if we know that the MUP has a decisive role to play in treating this thing, and if the status of refugees and internally displaced persons were abolished, then those persons would be declared asylum seekers and their accommodation would be possible only in some prison conditions. Furthermore, the MUP here plays a crucial role and it decides both in the first and second stages of the procedure, which is also important, there is no judicial oversight of such a procedure. This asylum law is the other side of the Visa Facilitation Act, because, as you all know, it is not easy anywhere in Europe today and in any country to obtain asylum. So, for example, the state of Sweden once said, or representatives of the state of Sweden said that 99% of those seeking asylum would refuse and force them to leave Sweden's territory. Only the state of Croatia has solved about 362, I think, the asylum cases and no case has been resolved positively, all have been rejected. Should the state of Serbia represent a buffer zone and protect the EU from various Pakistanis, Afghans or I don't know which other people, as we once did throughout history when we were protecting Europe from the Turks, and we all see that this Europe has been returning to us for centuries for what we once did for it? As for the costs of housing such persons, the law states that these preliminary costs amount to about 41 million, however, they are not nearly the real costs that will arise when this law is fully implemented. That is the case, the Republic of BiH, which has passed a similar law. Only the establishment of an information centre cost about 1m euros, or 920,000 euros, and we are talking here, or the law says that the total costs are about 41m. Of course, in Bosnia, the establishment of this information centre has been funded by the international commission, i.e. the Organisation for Migration and Refugees, the programme is funded, and here it is not said how this financial structure will be closed with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10553	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10554	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as we know, is on the agenda of the asylum law, a law which, in my opinion, should by no means be disputed for MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Problems with asylum seekers exist in many countries and the unique position of democratic states in the world is that any foreigner who is founded in his country, I quote, "is afraid of persecution because of his race, gender, language, religion, national belonging to a group or because of his political beliefs" can find refuge in one of these democratic countries. The quote is from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we have proven again that we have a pro-European commitment. This law, as has already been said, is being passed for the reason that the existing Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners, which was passed 27 years ago, in 1980. A new real framework is needed, given our country's various international obligations and current European standards, and this law is, this legal framework. The asylum law also complies with many international acts dealing with human rights and freedoms, refugee status, child rights, anti-civilised practices and many others. The problem of asylum seekers in Serbia is not particularly pronounced. Every year, on average, only a few dozen people seek asylum in Serbia. With EU countries, something is different. I think the debate on this law is an ideal moment to mention a case which has been in both Europe and the world arousing the public. It is the case of an Albanian girl from Kosovo, a 15-year-old Aragon Zogaj, who has become a symbol of resistance to the exile of refugees in Austria, where the issue is well-broken. Arrigona Zogaj came from Kosovo to a place called Frankenburg, at Linc in 2002, when her father paid for her, herself and four brothers 8,000 euros to move to Austria. Many parties, the Austrian "green" most called for humanity and for Arrigona Zogaj to remain in Austria, while, for example, Interior Minister Guenter Plater was very decided – the state must not allow her to be blackmailed by the threats of Aragona Zogaj, the state must not fall to its knees before any threats and blackmails. It is very interesting that the Zogaj family left Kosovo when the UN mission was largely administered there, and KFOR forces were in charge of security in the field. The question arises whether it is an economic factor or what forced the Zogaj family to seek political asylum in Austria in 2002? When it turns out that many refugees are not refugees, when Kosovo goes to the West for a better and safer life, when an Albanian girl does not want to go back to Kosovo and not to be ruled by Serbs, but by her countrymen and the international community, then we can talk about classical abuse of asylum. I don't think it's a good thing in Serbia there's been very little talk and writing in this case, and in all European media, written, printed, electronic, any, there's been a lot of words about this, it's caused a big storm. For many reasons, Serbia has no problems like this, the law is in line with European standards, with European legislation, is one of the conditions for joining the EU. I don't see any reason not to pass this law, so I call upon my colleagues to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10555	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maraš has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10556	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 225. The Committee on Trade and Tourism was held earlier on the ground floor of the Assembly. I must also inform the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10557	By what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10558	Two hundred and twenty-five, and I can do it for a member of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10559	Mr. Maras, I'll give you your time back, but I don't think it's right to call 225th and 226th and members who will be in line with the 6th item of the agenda, it's not correct and it's not an agreement between the heads of Parliament. You will be returned time, you cannot abuse it under the Rules of Procedure, but you should be dignified and say another member and specify what is on your mind, but not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10560	You're gonna give me my time back again, because, Mr. Albian, you can't interrupt me here with your witty jumps. That's one. Under two, the members of 225 and 226 are not the fifth item of this session, these are parliamentary issues, and you need to learn the rules of procedure a little better. I can appeal to Article 57, the Trade and Tourism Committee, as well as to a member who also refers to general provisions when it comes to the committees of this assembly. Why did I mention 225? Because I want to inform the MPs and the public what happened on the Tourism Committee that the protection of the Delta company has happened again. LDP MPs tried to draw attention to something that was happening, which is that there are no economic freedoms in this country, which are the preconditions of political freedoms and for this is the most responsible government of the Republic of Serbia, which has become the service of the company Delta. We cited several times what the Deputy Prime Minister, Trade Minister, Minister of Economy, Minister of Agriculture (and the previous President of the Chamber of Commerce) did – that at times when the threat to state authorities, the Council of Anti-Corruption, the Competition Protection Commission, the Council... Now I can't exactly quote, it doesn't matter, so the state authorities were under attack by a company, and at the same time the vice president and ministers went to the openings of that same company that worked and attacked the commission. Today's conclusion was that there were no threats and there was no pressure from the executive authority on the Competition Protection Commission, which is totally scandalous. The only one who could vote against was a member of the SPS, i.e. the SRS MPs did not vote, and the ruling majority voted there was no pressure on the Commission. That's scandalous. We've all witnessed that a company through a lawyer is threatening to hire a London barrister team for anyone who brings out a lie or a piece of information that could compromise the company's placement on the London Stock Exchange. If the government is silent about it, the Serbian Parliament must not remain silent. I think what happened on the Trade Committee today is a big mistake for those who voted for no pressure. Commission President, members of the Commission, we have stenographic notes, said they felt pressured by all statements coming from Minister Bubal, Milosavljevic, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, Minister of Economy Dinkic. The ruling majority's MPs disobeyed that and voted there was no pressure. Mr. Albianic, if you'll allow me another 30 seconds. It was a skillful attempt to turn the subject away from the Committee's organization. So on November 6th, the president of the Dulic Assembly, following a response from several MPs who have been instructed that there are pressures and threats, said here that Nebojsa Stefanovic, the committee's responsible president, would ask him to call the Committee. However, the memo he sent him is quite different from what Mr. Dulic said about the assembly pay phone, or where he is sitting. He only put on one subject, and that's whether it was a threat to the anti-monopoly commission. We at this assembly pay phone didn't say that she was the only one who was threatened, but that criminal charges were filed...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10561	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Please be clear, therefore, I insisted that we do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. Mr Vasilevich, you must leave the pay phone. Thank you. There's two more calls from the Rules of Procedure, so I'm sorry. I hope you'll appreciate your apology. So you can't abuse a pay phone. The Trade Committee was public. So, you two are trying to... Thank you for telling the MPs the information, they will work more successfully in the Assembly from now on. Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10562	Thank you. On the basis of Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, as chairman of the committee responsible for trade and tourism, I think it's okay for me to give the information from the session. Of course I don't deny any of the other MPs who attended the session, please be my guest. I want to say, for the sake of truth, that at the Committee's session, all the members of the Competition Protection Commission said a few things unequivocally. They said no one threatened them. That's what they said unequivocally. I don't think that's gonna be controversial. It is even Mrs. Bajalovic, who, the president of the Commission, who is a lawyer, has brought it out and that is why, and I don't think we should argue there. The second thing was the pressure talks, and all the members of the Commission's Council made a difference of view of what the pressure is on them. For some, it was a statement from one minister or another who came out and said that their work was not good. Some others thought it was in the press and the media. Some MPs who participated in the work of this committee felt that this could not be taken as a qualification of pressure because then each of the MPs in the National Assembly could claim to be pressured before each vote. Some other MPs provided information on what made them think it was pressure. As chairman of the Committee, I wanted to protect the integrity of this committee, to perform with dignity, to have the Committee's session deal with those topics that the Committee is responsible for dealing with. We have instructed all members of the Council, if there are any threats, which they later declared, to address the competent state authorities because we believe, of course, it is absolutely unacceptable for anyone to threaten any state authority. There are competent state authorities, the MUP, the judiciary and they should be addressed if there is any kind of threat and if they feel the threat of their integrity. I think that's what all the colleagues agreed to. At the end of the session, we formulated the topic, the fact that pressures were made on the members of the Commission. Most of the votes were rejected by the Committee's conclusion that there was pressure, i.e. he concluded that there was no pressure. That's the point. I said, while I was chairman of the Committee, and I said so in a session that was public, that I would not allow the politicisation of such a species to be dealt with by individual stakeholders in the Committee on Trade and Tourism with other stakeholders. The law must be respected. We want the law to be respected, but we don't want the Committee on Trade and Tourism to break interests, pressures, etc., all that you can hear in public. That is why I believe, precisely because of the integrity of both the Committee and the Assembly, that we should, in fact, always discuss within our business framework everything that bothers the citizens of Serbia and everything that we can plead to improve the work of the state institution and allow citizens to live better. The bottom line is that certain political groups or other stakeholders serve individual committees to put political pressure on them, or not to put political pressure on them, or to manipulate themselves again whether it was this or that, we think it was completely wrong and we as SRS MPs didn't even want to take part in it, because we don't think it's going in the direction of Serbian citizens at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10563	The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10564	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and the Serbian Veterans Movement, I must say that we have not yet decided how we will vote for this law. There are several reasons why we haven't decided this, but until the end of the debate on these laws and after discussions on amendments, it doesn't mean we won't vote for this law. However, I, as an MP, really feel the eye when we write in the reasons for the law to be passed that the adoption of the asylum law is also one of the conditions for joining the European Union. Gentlemen of the Ministry, who are proposing this law, I really do not understand when we will once begin to pass laws that are in the priority interest of the Serbian people, citizens of Serbia, and not in the interest of the European Union and some other factors, of which life in this country depends less. As I prepare to discuss this agenda, I have obtained a UNHCR report, which, in law, is prescribed, has an active participation in the implementation of this law. I really don't mind that, and I really support everything I'm about to tell you in Article 10, which I absolutely can't agree with, but about that a little bit later. However, what is important about this report? If you look at the analysis, you will see that in 1996 the number of refugees in Serbia was 524, I am talking about refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and in September 2007, this number was 97,620, which is a very significant reduction. This means that something has been done to reintegrate the refugees from these two former republics of the SFRY. If we look at this second curve, which shows the number of internally displaced persons from Kosovo, which in 1999 was 176, and in September 2007, 206,000, we will see that the process, after seven or eight years since the arrival of the United Nations and the engagement of UNHCR, at the return of internally displaced persons from Kosovo, has not led to their homes and homes, but, unfortunately, towards their arrival in Serbia. I would like to underline one fact that in 2007 there are 27,300 refugees in Serbia's territory, there are still 70,400 from Croatia, which means there are 97,700 refugees from Republika Srpska, or from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Why am I telling you this, gentlemen? I'm talking about because in Article 2 of this law you have a definition of refugees – a refugee is a person who because of legitimate fear of persecution because of his race, etc. He had to move to this country. So if this law is exclusively for asylum seekers, and not for refugees, and it seems to me that it is not, that under the influence of this law, or the benefits that this law makes, and I have to admit that there are some improvements to those persons, then the number that you have listed here, from 50 to 100 persons a year, will be far greater. I would not like to warn you now that you are there in some members of the law, such as the members of the 43rd and 44rd laws, which are the rights of refugees equal to the rights of permanent foreigners, and then it says: "The persons who are granted the right to shelter in the Republic of Serbia have the same rights as the constantly established foreigners with regard to labour rights and rights based on work, entrepreneurship, the right to permanent residence and freedom of movement, rights to mobile and immovable property, as well as rights to association." So then -- The right of refugees to accommodation: "The persons who have been granted the right to shelter or subsidiary protection of accommodation are provided according to the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, and for the longest year since the final solution which has recognised their status" and so on. I wouldn't want to talk about this any more. But why am I saying all this? I'm talking for the simple reason that in the part relating to the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, I'm not getting into the details right now, although I think there are some problematic figures there, that's a number of 41,400,000 dinars. Gentlemen, this number will absolutely not satisfy the needs of these persons if you intend to enforce this law into action. If you have no intention of enforcing this law, it's something else. Then this is another law that we have passed in this assembly, which unfortunately does not apply in this country. Also, I would like to tell you that here you have predicted that additional funds for the implementation of this law will be determined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but you have not said in what amount, you have not even estimated how much it amounts, as you did not say that the funds for the salaries of the employees in the office will be entrusted to the Ministry of Interior and how much funds will be necessary to allocate to the Ministry of Health for the treatment of these persons. I'd like, if you're able to answer these questions, because they seem to be very important to us to make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10565	Thank you. The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10566	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, member 101, for the presentation of Mr. Stefanovic. I had no intention of having anyone here who had scheduled this session of the Committee point out that he was involved in something that, I believe and the public, seemed to be incorrect. There were also the media, and there were MPs who were not members of the Committee, who can confirm that the President of the Council, or the Commission, said there was pressure from the executive authority. She listed even of which ministers. Commission members, four more there, the three of them decidently said they felt pressures; and if there were threats, they said that there were different perceptions of the threat and that no one threatened to put them in the trunk and would physically eliminate them, but that everything that was happening in the report is considered a threat. Last time I didn't have time to say that the President of the Commission also said that they had objected to what the Supreme Court did when he accepted the opinion of the Faculty of Law, he considered it an addition of one party to the procedure, or "Delte", and thus ruled that he had originally... I said there's no monopoly. This is a completely scandalous situation, which has led the Commission to react, and I really think that the Assembly and all MPs must stand behind the Commission. Number one, we are, or a previous assembly, but the Assembly has educated this commission, on a proposal of a few... Is lawyers' offices, economists' associations and so on. I think we should stand behind them and not let the pressure coming from the executive authority be such that both the work of this commission and the work of some other councils in the future be under great pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-13-0.u10567	This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 130 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third of the MPs are present and there are working conditions. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AZIL Law (the follow-up in principle) You have received the resignation of Slobodan Gavrilovic as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this National MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and Article 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the election of the elected MP Slobodan Gavrilovic, elected from the election list by the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Because of the intervention of the MPs that we don't have a television broadcast, I'm giving a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 10.40 hours. Thank you for your understanding, and we'll see why this happened.
