ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4061	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 163 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 106 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Officials (Principles) I remind you that the first day of the session is according to Article 140(1). Rules of Procedure, open-source search of the bill. I ask if the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, wants a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4062	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to apologize for this delay due to the traffic jam, and also to realize that this is a new practice in parliament and I think this is good for all of us, because for the past six or seven years as an MP here, Parliament has usually been unable to begin without a 45 minute delay, so I really congratulate all the MPs, and especially the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, by saying this primarily as his success. So let me, by respecting your time, explain the bill on amendments to the Law on Civil Servants on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposing. The Law amending the Civil Service Act was already in front of you about 20 or a month ago. Unfortunately, for various reasons at the time you could not decide on this law proposed by the Government, today this law is again on the agenda and this law is practically technical. It is about extending the deadline for conducting the competition to put civil servants in place. During 2005, this National Assembly discussed the draft law on civil servants, which entered into force on 1 July 2006, and in that law, Article 32 found that jobs in the state administration could be positions and executive jobs. Also, Article 33 identified what is the position and how the position is achieved, and it was established which size of the business is – I see that you have retained the spirit of discarding which here is obviously difficult to eradicate – therefore, it has been established what jobs are and how these jobs are being placed in those jobs. However, in order to understand why it is important to accept this law, I will read you these very two provisions of the existing law. Therefore, the jobs of civil servants are divided into positions of executive jobs, depending on the complexity of jobs, powers and responsibilities. The position is a job where a civil servant has powers and responsibilities related to the management and coordination of work in a state body. So, the position is a job with special responsibilities, please keep this in mind when I explain why it is necessary for this law to be adopted, which is why it is necessary for a provision of this law to be applied retroactively. Therefore, under the Law on State Servants, the Government places the Deputy Assistant Minister, Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Assistant Director of the Authority of the Ministry, Director of Special Organization, Deputy and Assistant Director of Special Organization, Director of Government Service, Deputy and Assistant Director of Government Service, Deputy and Assistant Secretary-General of Government, Republic Public Advocate, Vice-President of the Republic of Public Prosecutor and Head of Administrative District. I'll tell you that there are 400 positions at this point. I will also tell you that, according to the Law on Civil Servants, only 22 officials have been appointed to positions, practically over 370-380 people are not placed in positions according to the provisions of this law, and if you would not adopt these amendments and additions of the law in the day, over 380 people working in places where officials should work in positions, they would cease this function and the question arises in order for the whole system to function further. I must also tell you that to express my great pleasure, one of the ministries in which the appointment was carried out under the Law on State Servants is the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and my assistants, two ladies are here, Mrs Stanic and Mrs Milica. So, Mrs. Stanic passed that contest and three other assistants passed that contest, and the secretary of the ministry passed that contest, and I have to say that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are the leader in the professionalization of civil servants in that very sense that no one can, everything and that they will, and right away I will tell you that no one wants to change these officials in position. I think that this is a good way to go and that, at the time of the next government's entry into office, no one will change any civil servant in office, or we will be able to really boast of the professional, depolitized and responsible state administration. The State officials' law stipulates in transitional and final provisions that the first competition for positioning will necessarily be a public competition and that all public competitions for positioning will end by 1 July 2007, that was two days ago, as well as that of the persons whose jobs become positions, the duty in any case ends on 1 July 2007. So, we are in this very unpleasant situation so that practically 380 officials at this point would be put to rest and to ask the question of who would be responsible and who would carry out the tasks provided for by this law for civil servants in positions. Why is that? The government law stipulates that the government to which the term of office has ceased can only do current tasks and that it cannot appoint officials in ministries, special organisations and administration bodies as part of the ministry. Of course, the Government Act mentions the term "functioners", the Law on civil servants was passed after the Government Act and according to it a large part of the officials, except for a small number, became state officials in positions. The previous government ended its mandate when it ceased its mandate to the MPs, which was on 14 February 2007. In that sense, since 14 February 2007, the government has been unable to conduct competitions and place civil servants in positions. Practically, in the ministries and special organisations, the administration bodies of the ministry, government services, the Republic Public Attorney's Office, etc., on 1 July 2007, no one could have been appointed, even if someone had intended to appoint them. Since, under the Law on civil servants, the jobs in which civil servants have powers and responsibilities related to the management and coordination of work within the state authority would seriously undermine the work of the authorities and services mentioned, thereby and the functioning of the state. I will mention specifically, when it comes to the ministry, that is also the ministry secretary and ministerial assistants headed by the ministry's sector. It is therefore necessary to extend the prescribed deadlines for public competitions and, of course, at the same time to suspend the duties of the appointed persons, in order to avoid this very unpleasant situation. These are the reasons why the bill itself provided for the law to be adopted by an urgent procedure and to enter into force on the day of its publication. So, we avoided that eight-day prophesy. These are at this point the reasons why we are asking for the retroactiveness of this law to be established, by accepting Mrs. Hope Kolundgia's amendment, an excellent amendment, which in an excellent way has overcome the situation in which we have now found ourselves. In the end, I can ask you this relatively technical question, I would say first of all a technical question, to solve it effectively. Of course, I am prepared to answer all your questions, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a representative of the Proposer. I'm going back on the subject. This is the only way to overcome the situation in which we found ourselves by the fact that the previous government since 14 February was unable to implement competitions by respecting the Government Act, without the new government being formed until a month ago, which you should bear in mind, because the very procedure of these public competitions is very long and there is a High Official Council that is directly responsible for implementing these competitions. The High Official Council is unable to process more than a few dozen competitions monthly, and at this point we need to receive close to 400 people to be officials in office and that it is impossible to do so within a period of 2,3,4, 5 months. The deadline of one year is an optimal deadline for the completion of this job. So much, Mr. President, in this opening statement. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your interesting insights, it was very funny, it may not have been useful enough, but it was very funny. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4063	Breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure were advertised by the following MPs: Mr Balint Pastor, Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andric, Vladan Batic, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you are, MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4064	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, it is not my custom to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. President has managed to break three members of the Rules of Procedure on Friday and today. I'm also going to quote and beg that my time is not counting. Today, Mr. President has violated Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, according to which the MP who wishes to speak about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. For advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I reported on Friday, so Mr. President should have given me the word first, not the Minister. The second member was violated on Friday, which is Article 90(2), under which MPs, committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly and Government may propose amendments and additions to the proposed agenda. Proposals are being submitted to the president of the National Assembly in writing. The position of Article 5, Article 90, is also violated: "In determining the agenda, the National Assembly shall decide in the following order of proposals: for an emergency procedure, that certain points be withdrawn from the agenda proposal, that the agenda be extended, for the merger of the debate, for the modification of the order of certain points". I must remind you that, on 19 June, the MPs of the SVM proposed to the National Assembly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting and sent the bill to the Assembly, with a proposal to put the first session on the agenda by emergency procedure. We have also stated, on the basis of Article 161, the reasons for the emergency procedure, and we have stated that the adverse consequences would also arise and the danger of creating inconceivable and harmful consequences for the public information system in minority languages, which would later not be possible to remove. We have proposed this law to exclude electronic media broadcasting in the languages of national minorities from privatisation. We have been talking about this problem, as SVM and as the National Council of Hungarians, for three and a half years, but unfortunately in Serbia, there is only what the MP or some minister says, so we couldn't act to get this bill on the agenda of the National Assembly, so now we have sent it to the National Assembly. I must also say that the government violates its international obligations, because the intergovernmental mixed Commission on National Minorities is in December 2004, the Commission between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary, in the record of this Commission, says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will initiate changes to the Law on Radio-Difusion, in order to exempt from the mandatory privatisation process of those electronic media, which are the founders of the municipality and broadcast the programme in minority languages. That's how it's supposed to be for more than three years. Unfortunately, that is not the case and we have proposed this amendment to the law. We also discussed this with Prime Minister Kostunica during last week and with Dragan Janjic, a media assistant for the culture minister. They both said we should find a solution. I have to say, we're in favour of solving fundamental problems effectively. (President: Time) I ask the President of the National Assembly to put this legislative proposal on the agenda. Unless this comes to the agenda today, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you, Mr. President, that this bill be put on the agenda within 10 days, because this issue can be resolved exclusively by changing the law, and not by the way it is resolved, let's say, President So Sudotica, Mr. Sasa Vukinic, who gives support to Radio "Sabotici" and taps on the shoulders of the employees of Radio "Sabotici"...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4065	Mr. Pastor, your time is up. I'll give you the answer right away. Article 167 defines the following thing: 'At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly shall work on the predetermined agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an emergency session'. The applicant is a group of MPs and there is no possibility that at a session scheduled by a group of MPs, which is extraordinary in its essence, the agenda item you have proposed. As for the violation of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, article 100, says, you well quoted it as saying, "To the People's MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." I opened the session and I'm not a previous speaker. The first speaker to speak at the session was Minister Markovic. After that, you got, by Article 100, the opportunity to advertise a breach of this Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much. MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4066	Mr President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will quote Article 226, so please do not count on me the time: "The MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, which he needs in order to achieve the function of the National MP." Mr. President, I called on this member of the Rules of Procedure on Friday, and right after that, you interrupted the session. During this brief debate, which I did not get an answer to, I reiterated one of the demands some fellow MPs had previously insisted on, which were sent to Special Prosecutor for the fight against organised crime Slobodan Radovanovic. We have asked you very clearly for an explanation of the postponement of the debate on the confidence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because we felt that political issues raised in the public through criminalising the opposition and political alternatives to Vojislav Kostunica we should offer answers to him and his cabinet in the debate in the Serbian Parliament. I don't think anyone wants the political problems in society solved the way they were solved in the past, especially as they were solved on 12 March 2003. We didn't get any answers from you, unless the session was an answer, and if that was the answer, I have to say that I'm disappointed and that answer is devastating. You as Parliament's president should protect this institution, not one incompetent government. You scheduled the fourth session of parliament for 21 June and the only item on the agenda was the debate on the confidence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica on the basis of the launched initiative of two opposition parties. I have an understanding of the explanation you met us with last week and the pro-longing of that debate for this week, but only on the condition that we were working on the law of the minister in charge on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. We have not discussed this law, and because of the fact that this item of the agenda is not in front of us, it takes away the right for us to offer the answers that the public expects, to the same extent that the public meets their political arguments as the special prosecutor and his spokesman. I'm sorry, but we can't act like nothing's happening in this country. I agree that this law is very important, but I ask you to tell us as President of the Assembly what you have done about the matter that has been opened here during the previous week and the request of several MPs to have a special prosecutor familiarise the parliament with all the circumstances that are extremely important at the moment, and they relate to the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, regardless of those in that background. If the answer to everything that happened last week is a request from the police to provide me, then those political threats that we've been exposed to are not threats we're going to withdraw from. Let the special prosecutor address the parliament, that's what the MPs asked for, and make an account for the parliament. We are representatives of citizens who, to the same extent that one asks, expect certain answers. We didn't get that answer from the special prosecutor, and we didn't get an answer from either of you about what you were doing about it. Nothing personal, without any fences, very in principle we want to talk in parliament, not on the street, not through violence, because everything that is happening in Serbia right now is pushing us into this kind of extremism. If anyone thinks... (President: Time. Yes, thank you, and last time you interrupted me. I warned you to let me finish the sentence, you wouldn't let it, you interrupted the session. As far as our request goes, he's very clear. Article 226, I quoted him, as I said at the beginning, and I asked you not to count that time on me. (President: That was 30 seconds. ) Article 226, the answer to a very clear parliamentary question, we ask Prosecutor Radovanovic to inform parliament, not to let us in private phone conversations or in private conversations with our lawyers explain that Serbia has gone mad and that what is happening has nothing to do with it and its institution, and that it is in fear of our security and that it is publicly silent about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4067	Thank you. Dear Mr Jovanovic, I will quote to you Article 168 - during an extraordinary session at the National Assembly session only if the motion for an extraordinary session provided for in his request. The promoter didn't see it coming in his request. However, I will ask the professional service to record your question and you will receive an answer as soon as possible. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4068	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Member of the 100th and Art. 225 and 226. As for Article 100, Mr. Dulic, you're wrong because we reported to the Rules of Procedure on Friday. We were supposed to get word today before the minister, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4069	Let's have a discussion, and no one came to the Assembly on Friday. On Friday, no one addressed the assembly, including the minister. You've been given a word in the Rules of Procedure, and it's been discussed by the Rules of Procedure. So none of the speakers spoke. Now you've got the word, here you go, you've advertised article 100, and we'll come out in voting day. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4070	I'm just asking you not to address that dose of irony to us. The previous speaker, in my case, was Mr. Vladan Batic on Friday, because I applied to speak by the Rules of Procedure on Friday. It wasn't Milan Markovic. But I don't want to go on about it. Thank you. Art. In 225 and 226, the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For the sake of more complete communication, official publications of the National Assembly and information and other materials are regularly provided to MPs. Article 226 of the National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly. I am taking this opportunity to ask the question of Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. The question is - What is the status, currently former special prosecutor for organised crime Slobodan Radovanovic? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Radovanovic's term of office expired on Sunday 1st July and he can no longer be, without re-election, a special prosecutor for organised crime. I'm asking this question and this status is very important right now for a few reasons. Certainly, the most important reason is that the man is currently conducting one of the most important investigations in our society, and this is a question of the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Does he now perform his function under some kind of blackmail? We were witnesses here when the DSS MPs announced Mr Radovanovic's future moves. Yesterday we heard it again, as last week, from DSS spokesman Andrija Mladenovic. I question Mr Dusan Petrovic -- what is Mr Radovanovic's status and whether he works under some kind of pressure. Once again, we are ready to answer all questions, even the prosecutor to whom the mandate has expired, and we expect here, I will repeat that request once again, Mr Kostunica, and we will personally give him the answers to all the questions he asks through his mafia media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4071	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared. I will read you further, MP Šormaz, Dačić, Gojko Radić, Rajko Baralić, Varga Laslo, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4072	Mr. President, also the provision of Article 226, not to quote it. Also a question for the minister of justice - what is the status of special prosecutor for organised crime, Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, has his mandate expired and, if so, who can extend his mandate? I remind you that Serbia does not have a state prosecutor, and the question is when and if it will be in the near future. There is no district attorney in Belgrade either, because the one performing the post should be retired long ago. I must tell you that I was with Mr. Radovanovic on Friday, that I warned him that he had violated his powers, that there was no political background for killing the prime minister to focus on one event, because there are events before and after the events that are more important than the event. He confessed to Mr Radovanovic, and I said that I would say it in parliament, that he was wrong, that he was provoked by some media appearances by some prosecutors, but he must not do it, because then the impression is that he is politically defined. Then he cannot do the job of determining the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. I'll draw attention to another detail, I also told him, since this is the topic of the last few days, about the reaction of some prosecutors during the detention of some members of the Zemun clan. The detention of these people has been lifted by the Fourth Municipal Court. Look at the proposal selected by the President of the Fourth Municipal Court at the time. The same party whose convention was attended by a special prosecutor for organised crime, Slobodan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4073	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Tomislav Nikolic and then by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this discussion interesting, and I will gladly participate in it, but I have another topic today, which is art. 144 and 143. Rules of Procedure, which is why I call on the legislator to, on the basis of Article 143. The Rules of Procedure, withdrawing this bill from the procedure, because it is obvious that it is late with such a bill and that it must submit a new bill, which will meet both constitutional and business conditions for discussion and decision-making. In fact, the Constitution really provides in Article 197 that it is possible to adopt certain provisions of an act which will have a feedback, but which will explain the general interest in the adoption of an act which has a feedback. We received the bill, that it was discussed within the deadline could be discussed at the National Assembly session, however, today, July 3rd, it is really impossible to discuss the law that was to come into force on July 1st, and even in the amendment that regulates, as the minister said, and the minister is an excellent DOS lawyer, in an extraordinary way regulating the problem, and forgets that there are only a few problems that should have been explained by the amendment's promoter, as well as the minister who thinks that everything will be solved by what the law is going to be passed. By the way, July 1st, it all stopped. The amendment promoter says - if we don't bring in, the functions will stop. No, they stopped. You have a finished shop, a completely new situation, and you're not removing anything that's going to happen, because something happened on July 1st by law, and this law can't be corrected in this way, it's absolutely impossible for it to be corrected. She can't sit next to you unless she's chosen. By July 1st, she couldn't sit down, for example, talking like that, I didn't listen to whether she was elected according to the law or not. Furthermore, there's no general interest if it's 200 people. It's not a general interest. Two hundred officials, he says, will remain, will not be able to be elected; give them contracts on the work, give them fees, bridge it, but don't force 250 MPs to violate the Constitution and their Rules of Procedure, so that you will remain clean in front of the 200 people you need, who you haven't regulated in time the relationship in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't humiliate us here, Mr. President, and I resent you, because we have agreed that the Assembly should not be a servant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Assembly be above the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it controls it, that it directs it, that it helps it run the state, that it helps it pass laws, but laws that will mean something. To pass this law not today, but perhaps not until tomorrow, or the day after, and to pretend it's all before July 1st, it's immoral for me and we won't be involved. I invite you not to take part in this, too. So it's absolutely impossible to discuss this law, even the amendments don't remove what's a liability to the law in its original form. You say it will apply from July 1st 2008; no, and what about July 1, 2007, what about July 2, in July 3, where are these people, where are the solutions to their salaries? How can they perform functions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4075	National MP Dragan Shormaz has given up. The Messenger of the people is Ivica Dacic, and then the Messenger of the people Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, according to the new Constitution that we have brought and on your proposal, is that the Republic of Serbia, which is point one, is governed and ensured by sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia. National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Riza Halimi, said in an interview with a daily newspaper: "we will separate Bujanovac, Medvedju and Presevo from Serbia". Ladies and gentlemen, just because he's a national MP and has immunity doesn't mean he can destroy the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country. Who reacted from the state authorities, did the prosecutor react? That's why he needs to be taken away from his immunity, and that's why he's supposed to be tried, he's supposed to be in jail today, not in parliamentary benches, ladies and gentlemen. You voted in favour of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the people of Serbia voted in the referendum on. Riza Halimi says in the paper she advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Is he a national MP in the parliament of Albania or the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? Please, Mr. President, let us pay attention to this matter. This is not a simple question, from the name of that part of the territory Presevo Valley, by attributing it to Medvedja, where most of the population is made up of Serbs, not Albanians, to the fact that the issue of solutions in Kosovo and Metohija is linked to the status of the three municipalities, that is a direct violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state. Please meet what is the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased that there is complete unity within the democratic bloc, so I see that Cedomir Jovanovic is plowing with those who are now in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and until a month ago, they have been conducting negotiations on being an integral part of the government. As I recall, the DS negotiated with him to enter the government, it's a very solid and large unity. I don't know who you're accusing here. Are you accusing any of us of the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic or are you accusing each other? So stop talking about the democratic bloc. It's your invention that used to bring down power in 2000. He no longer exists, because there are at least those who are Democrats in the democratic bloc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Mr. President, I want you to explain to me why the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not proposing this extraordinary session? (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. ) Article 106. The constitution says the National Assembly meets in two regular sessions. The National Assembly shall meet at an extraordinary meeting at the request of at least one third of the Members of Parliament or at the request of the Government. Why is the Serbian government not a proposing, since it is already a legislator of this law? The paper you sent us states that a request for a summoning is submitted by 96 MPs and that you designate Hope Kolnuji as your representative. I expect Hope Kolundji to explain the bill. What are you? You have two proposings here right now, the only thing you've done in the meantime, you've lustrated the Balinian. Who were you illustrating, the one you chose, Mr. Secretary, as director, where is he? Mr. President, so I don't report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure twice...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4077	You'll have to, because if I let you talk over time now, then I'd break the Rules of Procedure. So please, we'll sign you up for another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4078	Thank you. I won't force you, Mr. Dulic, to break the Rules of Procedure, but please explain to me how you gave your word to Mr. Milan Markovic, as a representative of the government for this law, which is not the proposing of this extraordinary session, you signed Mrs. Nada Kolundji here. Why don't you, Mrs. Kulundzija, explain this law instead of Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4079	Thank you very much. Let me give you an explanation, Mr. Dacic. Nada Kolundzija is proposing a session on behalf of the MPs, and Mr Milan Markovic is a representative of the government that proposed the law, so that's what this is all about. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, who advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then... What if I'm not satisfied with the explanation? ) With great satisfaction, the National Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Tell me, which member is it? So, Article 167. The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and then László Varga's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4080	Mr. President, Articles 225 and 226. By voting for certain legal projects, MPs take responsibility for the consequences these projects bear. The so-called low initiative to prevent the privatisation of local media or what Mr Pàsztor Bàlint is talking about today, please, the MPs who voted for the Privatisation Act, and to make it clear that the law was simply not voted by the MPs of the SPS, produced consequences as well as the Public Information Act, which you are now trying to remove in a way that is not possible. It is not possible that when it comes to your house or Nis, then Nis MPs who voted, some of them, I apologize, for the Privatisation Act, say they should not be privatised by the press. The Socialists claimed no media should be privatised, the founder of which is local self-government, as tycunisation in the media area is on the scene in Serbia today. This is the real consequence of the delusion that it is possible in this way to solve this important area. As for minorities, of course we are interested in informing national minorities in the languages they use, which is their native language, but it is not possible to regulate it in this way. You must have known, gentlemen, when you proposed this law and when you voted it, that the consequences of eight million Serbian citizens could no longer be removed unless a new law was passed. What you're trying to explain today is that it's only important when your local media comes to not be privatised, it's hypocritical, it's not correct, it's privatised four-fifths of the media in Serbia. Either the principle applies to everyone or doesn't apply to anyone. This is how you get cheap political points, that doesn't apply to you, Mr. Pàsztor, you said on behalf of something else, you get cheap political points in Serbia by saying you shouldn't be privatised electronic media in municipalities where we are MPs. You should have taken care of that in 2001 when you adopted the Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4081	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP László Varga and then by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4082	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for article 226. Rules of Procedure. This National Assembly breaks its Rules of Procedure countless times every day. I'm the president of the National Assembly doing this every day a dozen times. For example, Article 103, paragraph 1. I'm sure it's the Rules of Procedure. It's not a question of interpretation, it's obvious. When there is some inaccuracy in the Rules of Procedure between certain provisions, then the ruling majority always interprets the Rules of Procedure for its own benefit. Mr. President quoted Article 167. The Rules of Procedure also explained why it is not possible to put this bill on the agenda, and then read Article 168 and told Mr Jovanovic that during this session it is not possible to ask parliamentary questions, and then said that Mr Jovanovic would receive an answer to his parliamentary question. We're looking for the same thing, that same principle to apply. In fact, we believe that if there is no agenda for this law, if this law is not passed, then there will be harmful, and very harmful, and irrevocable consequences for the system of public information in minority languages. If the ruling majority had a goal or had the goal of preserving information in the languages of national minorities, then interpreting the Rules of Procedure, as it always does, would put this bill on the agenda and meet national minorities. Of course, DS and G17 Plus are not in the interest and in this way they are again letting us know that the issues of national minorities and the problems of national minorities are not priority issues. In a few sentences, let me refer to the previous exhibit. We did not propose to exempt individual media from the mandatory privatisation cycle according to a territorial principle, but according to one quite other principle, which is otherwise in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the ban on reducing the level of rights acquired by national minorities. It's a whole other question and a whole other explanation. Finally, I want to finish that sentence that Mr. President of the National Assembly broke up when Mr. Pàsztor Bélint spoke, and it is about the local officials of the Democratic Party, collecting cheap political points, trying to solve this problem of privatising electronic media in minority languages, rather than the MPs of the DS supporting this proposal and in this way really solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4083	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4084	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please don't count this time on me, since members 101, 198, 199, 200, 201 and 202. Namely, Mr. President, you didn't quite interpret my exposure. There is a big difference between the parliamentary issue, which is governed by Articles 198, 199, 200, 201 and 202, and Article 226, which defines the right of MPs to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, and which it needs to fulfil the function of the MP. The parliamentary question was arranged by article 198 and said that the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a particular minister or government within their jurisdiction. The parliamentary issue must be clearly formulated, referred to the competent minister or government. The parliamentary question is asked in writing or verbally, with the presentation of MPs asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Since we from the LDP are not interested in discussing Mr Markovic's law, or the government's majority, I will not quote the remaining members of the law, I will just warn that there is a big difference between the parliamentary issue and your right to classify the agenda during the extraordinary session as a part of the agenda. I called on Article 226 and reminded you that during the previous week, MPs of the Republic's parliament called for the same member to ask for information and explanations from you as president, but also from some other prominent officials, public officials, on issues that are important to us as representatives of the citizens who have elected us. It's not in our interest for parliament to turn into a bar. That is why we invite you to be the ones who will make careful management in this House different from those who were from the parliaments that were in the past. We want to get an answer to this question from the government during the debate, because on behalf of the Government, those who formed this government are asking us questions. I agree with your initiative that, due to the fact that some representatives of the proposing agenda are not a matter of confidence in the government in the country, that this point is being extended, but since Mr Nikolic insists on respecting the Rules of Procedure and the Law, I would remind you that the Constitution obliges you to discuss the government's confidence during this session. If the first point is the point that's now being discussed, the second point has to be the debate on the government's trust. If you hadn't scheduled our session at 6:00 p.m. on Friday, you might have reacted differently to me. This is how we are forced to make it very clear from the pay phone to repeat a few political views. We consider it unacceptable to criminalise political opponents, opposition and political alternatives to the ruling regime in Serbia. This crime is being conducted through an organized campaign. Since we have experience with these campaigns, we want to stop those pitfalls and the outcomes that pushed this country into an agony that it can't get out of for four years. So we very clearly insisted on the special prosecutor's response to the kind of questions that are asking us on his behalf our political opponents. We disagree that a special prosecutor through the newspaper of one of the cigarette smuggling suspects during the 1990s, Miroslav Miskovic, "News", explains it. He has to do it here in front of parliament or at a session of committees or in written material to let us know when he's going to do it and why he can't do it now. Everything is acceptable, but not the abuse of an institution that is characteristic of a political period for the past three years and what is happening to us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4085	Mr. Jovanovic, watch the watch, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4086	Mr. Dulic, I looked at the clock. I've been quoting the members of the Rules of Procedures you've broken for two minutes, and I've been well-intentioned, I haven't quoted everything. I'm going to finish now and I'm not going to participate in this debate anymore, but we're not going to agree to remain silent in front of what's going on in this country right now. We want to get an answer to the questions: why is there a selective fight against organised crime in Serbia through cleaning the ground for those who form the political background of the current government. If an investigation into cigarette smuggling has been launched during the 1990s, those who are political friends and who are basically today's ruling coalition, Milosevic's tycoons, through whose media today address us, are those who need to lead the investigation. I mean Prosecutor Radovanovic and Miroslav Miskovic. That can't be done, because we've been looking for a government debate about the relationship between business and politics. We have nothing against large companies, we want to make political arrangements with them that will allow them to do their job, and we want to do ours. But what's happening today, this is the final stage of the destruction of our community, and we don't withdraw before that. I don't think you've made a concession for me for talking for two and a half minutes and quoting the Rules of Procedure for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4087	Obviously, you want to ask the government a question when you refer to Article 226, not the President of the Assembly. The President of the Assembly cannot answer the question you just asked. You'll set them up at the government's first next session. "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly and other bodies, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials of other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP." I can read you the rights and responsibilities of the President of the Assembly. You can ask me from my jurisdiction, but you can't ask me about the special prosecutor, which is why someone hasn't been arrested and because the tycoons rule Serbia. I can't give you an answer to that question. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic and then MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4088	Dear gentlemen, I am reporting under Article 226 and I point to a truly one, in my opinion and in the opinion of a large number of businessmen and economists, an alarming phenomenon. The euro rate today is 78.67 dinars; in 2004, 32 months ago, it was nominally higher. In January last year, 18 months ago, it was 10% higher. Gentlemen, all of this is explained by the relationship between supply and demand, i.e. the functioning of market mechanisms. During the same time since 2004, official inflation has been more than 35% in this period. Since last year, official inflation has been around 15%, and public spending has increased over 50% in the same period, including earnings, or wages. So, gentlemen, in this period, the net exporters, those who have more exports than imports, are completely devastated. Those with their net exports must pay for electricity, which has gone 40%, profits that have gone 30%, etc. At this stage, net profits from export companies, net exporters, fell to the lowest possible branch and far lag behind public consumption. Therefore, if the course is said to be formed in relation to the market, it turns out that only the course is formed on the basis of market categories, and where the state should interfere in the economy, and in all other segments all parameters and all barometers have been practically breached. In fact, you saw that practically through the course the National Bank defends macroeconomic stability. Please, Parliament Speaker, if possible, to schedule an emergency meeting with government representatives, resolution ministries, with a parliamentary delegation and representatives of businessmen, because practically further collapse of course will completely devastate net exporters, indeed, will devastate. Last year, the representatives of the exporters wrote 50 times, we spoke to the prime minister, the finance minister, the National Bank. Mr. Boza Djelic spoke of a 100-dollar course, the lowest course. Export economy will have losses and cannot compete with foreign competition. The only one going to the market and only it is subject to rigorous market laws. I would really like to ask the president of parliament to organise an emergency meeting this week between the parliamentary delegation, the representatives of the exporters of the largest and resolution ministries and the National Bank of Serbia. I'm also applying for another violation of Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm applying now, in connection with the purchase of the raspberries, only three or four sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4089	National MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by National MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4090	I am deeply sorry that the congregation does not show understanding of a very important subject spoken by the predecessor. Articles 225 and 226. The MP has the right to be informed and has the right to request notice. I'm asking for a special prosecutor's notice, or whatever function he's in today... We'll keep talking, never mind, let the ruling majority do what they think they should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4091	Mr. Andric, the ruling majority is listening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4092	No, the ruling majority is behind, Mr. Dulic, and screaming.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4093	The only thing I can do is ask the ruling majority to stop screaming.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4094	We are asking special prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic and asking him to submit a report either to the parliament or to the committee of directors on how long it took to implement the "Network" action. So what we do know is that it's through the media, that one of the groups has been brought in, that some couriers, magicians, etc. have been brought in from another group, but we're taking the opportunity to ask what's going on with the group led by Miroslav Miskovic. We talked about it earlier today. I have a photo that was taken last week. It's two photos. In one photograph are Slobodan Radovanovic, Rade Bulatović and Miroslav Miskovic. Rade Bulatovic and Miroslav Miskovic are in a friendly conversation and in the next photo Miroslav Miskovic explains something to special prosecutor Radovanovic. So our question is - why is the special prosecutor seeing someone to investigate, what was the topic of this conversation and whether this hug of Radet Bulatovic was seen as a patronage of power over his favorite tycoon, Miroslav Miskovic. We also draw the conclusion from this, given the influence that Miroslav Miskovic has on the media scene, so he owns the "News", he owns the "Pres", pays Sunday's "Standard", whether he is against the service of not launching an investigation into the Network of Campaigns that is being held today against all political opponents, Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4095	Thank you. Please, there is a word from MP Dragan Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held today, July 3, 2007, at 12:00 p.m., at the House of the National Assembly, in the Blue Salon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4096	Dear gentlemen, I apologize for taking a little detour from the subject. I'd just say three sentences. I'm obliged to say this. I've been visiting 20 coolers. Gentlemen, on the raspberries market, which brings 70m euros in foreign exchange income, along with this course that completely destroyed the exit price, we have the following phenomenon: today the raspberries buy trucks with tarp and sacks of steam, while coolers that have entered the hasap quality, which pay taxes and contributions, have full technology, they are no longer competitive. Because people, I repeat, with lorries with tarpaulins, without any elemental conditions, and with a sack of steam, they come and buy, they make a stock exchange in all areas where the raspberries are the most. Therefore, I again ask President Dulic to respond urgently to the resolution ministries, because something must be done. The largest freezers remain only with 20% filled in processing facilities, and still lasts a season of raspberries for 15 days. First, what was to be done, besides this hasap quality, was to be paid indemnity. Security payments would solve that problem. However, it continued to pay cash. Please, bag of money and trucks, dirty trucks are the leaders of the raspberries shopping. Can I say that too? That money and those trucks come from some agricultural combination of Panchevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4097	Thank you very much. We're having a debate about the Civil Service Act. I am informing the MPs and MPs that a list of speakers has been concluded on this agenda point. I call upon the People's MP, Mr. Srdjan Shane, to take a word on behalf of the MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs. Here you go. He doesn't want to. He has the word of Ambassador Balint Pastor, according to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4098	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of Article 104 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure, according to which MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. This, of course, refers to the president of the National Assembly, who is the first among the equal. I have to find out there's been a debate for over an hour at the time of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. President is the only one who's taken my word. I don't think this is going to contribute to restoring the dignity of the National Assembly. Almost everyone talked for more than three minutes. I'm the only one who's been taken from me. That's what happened when I started talking about the Democratic Party acting differently at the municipal level, and different at the republican level. I ask the Honorable President Dulic not to do so. The only time he's been president of the National Assembly is since he took Dr. Rajko Djuric's word to me several times today. I ask Mr. Dulic to treat all the MPs equally in this respected home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4099	Thank you. I didn't take your word. I turned off the microphone because you entered the fifth minute of the discussion following the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I warned you twice before in time, and you didn't react to it. That's the only reason I turned off your microphone. By the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go. I ask the People's MPs to then move on to the original search. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4100	Ladies and gentlemen, I report to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 226, I ask the question and ask the President of the Assembly to see what's going on there, how many workers are out of work, how many profits have been used by that coolant in the last 10 years, how much damage has been done to the Agricultural Industrial Combin in Panchev, who is the party to this coolant, and who is the director who destroyed this freezer and who was one of the largest in Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, the MP had previously spoken of these problems. It's true that in that freezer you don't know who's doing what, and what profits gain capital and profit in that freezer. There's trucks coming from all over the place. There are no conditions, but what a colleague said earlier, when he mentioned that trucks come with cyrades, that's true, because they don't come with freezers. But there are no authorities, because this government is a jacket and a dead end. So that's what's missing in our country. There's no control of profits, criminals and gangs, to break up and disable the robbery of people's property. PIC workers from Tamish lost their jobs. There were five or six thousand employees, and that freezer had a large number of workers. The workers lost their jobs, but the profits profited and took big money, and the working class ran out of bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4101	Thank you. The presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, get their word. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4102	My fellow MPs, I had to go out, but he's already going over one nice and nice measure, even though in Vojvodina they say they're smooth nice, let's go back a little bit, and when we talk about Radio Subotics, around these frequencies, we need to be honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4103	Mr. Radic, just for the record, which member was broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4104	This is Article 104. (President: Thank you. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. ( b) Yes, it is about the dignity of the congregation, attitude 1. Mr. Pastor, in 2002, your president, now former, with DOS authority, with the Democratic Party, passed the Radio Diffusion Act, on privatising local radio stations. Then we of the SRS warned you that it was a bad law, that it wasn't good. He later suffered some changes. You were up for the law. He's been brought in and I don't know what's bothering you right now in that law? But if you feel so sorry for Radio Saturday, which was mostly your service, your service and your client's interest, then you should have lobbyed for Radio Saturday to get the frequency, not your private, your party, Panon TV and radio. You could've tried a little bit, so it would've had a frequency of Radio Saturdays. No, you preferred lobbying and lobbying at the Frequency Agency, and then now you're out of Radio Saturday, no frequency. It's your fault. These are your previous bad deals with your coalition partners. But now that you're making noises in Subotica, since you're having trouble at the bar, you're trying in some way to get citizens' eyes dirty with this pay phone and say, well, how are you for Radio Saturday to get the frequency? Mr. Pastor, blame who Sasha's hanging out with, the president of the local assembly, who they're patting on the shoulder. Split up, you're together in power. Break up that coalition already. Yet you form committees against each other. Why do you always complain about each other? That's the easiest. A husband and wife have two, three, four, five children and break up in marriage. Why don't you two split up? Tomorrow's your chance in the local parliament, you're going to advocate that robbery to cancel that bad contract and robbery over Minerva, and I hope tomorrow is the end of your local coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4105	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I did not talk about frequencies, I was talking about the need to find a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting, and this proposal must be found on the agenda for reasons or for media broadcasting programmes in minority languages to be excluded from the privatisation process. So it's not about frequencies, it's about excluding those media that broadcast minority language programs from mandatory privatisation. It is not exclusively about Radio Subotica, it is not about the media in Hungarian, it is about the media that broadcast their programmes in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but it is about our legal proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Radio-Difusion, all media that are the founders of local self-government, which the media emit for at least 800 minutes in the languages of some minority or some minorities in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. As far as the frequency is concerned, it's true that Radio Subotica didn't get the regional frequency, but it's not true that the Duke Hungarian Union lobbyed to get or not get the frequency. It is likely that all MPs in the National Assembly know that the Republic Broadcasting Agency is an independent body, that no MP and no party can have any effect on the decision of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, so the Radio Subotica decision not to receive the frequency of the regional one has been made because of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Radio Subotica can otherwise compete for local frequency, and it's not true that Radio Subotica won't survive. Radio Subotica will survive, I'm sure it will broadcast its programme at local frequency, but it is all about media broadcasting programmes in the languages of national minorities. As for the questions -- why did the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians support the Law on Radio-Difusion 2002, I must say that at that time the DS promised that this problem would be resolved by some other regulations, that this Radio-Difusion Act must be passed for the sake of the Council of Europe or the OSCE, but that regulations governing media privatisation would exclude all media broadcasting programmes in minority languages from mandatory privatisation. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. For all these years, until we had MPs, we fought for this to exclude the media in minority languages. We didn't have any MPs, and now we have MPs, and now we've put in a motion to amend and supplement the Radio Diffusion Act... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And we expect the People's Assembly to adopt that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4107	Thank you. We're going to have to make a small order, as the MPs continue to report to the Rules of Procedure. First came the MP Varga Laslo, then the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then the MP of the people Otto Kishmarton, and then the MP of the people, Momir Markovic. We'll get the law then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4108	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. I'm asking for a notice from the President of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, is it true that anyone has been lobbying by the Grand Duchy of Hungarians to get any radio or television frequency? I ask the President of the National Assembly to help us deliver this request for an explanation or explanation to the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4109	Thank you, just let me ask you, how am I supposed to do that? You're asking me to give you an answer as to whether anyone, including the Duke Hungarian Union, has been lobbying at the Broadcasting Agency. Thank you very much. Here is the word of the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then the People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4110	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 226. After the five-octobar revolution or the five-octobarian coup... A little attention, if it's possible, to listen, Chairman, will you...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4111	I would like the MPs of Gojko Radic, Tomislav Nikolic and Zarko Obradovic to listen to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4112	Ladies and gentlemen, after the Friday revolution, you promised those greatest heroes work, which is to the peasants, that as far as their product is concerned, they should not worry because they will be open borders and they will be able to sell their product to all those who are interested in buying it without a mediator. What's going on? Just after the five-eyed revolution, one of the greatest robberies of this particular labor hero and his product, i.e. The peasant. We have heard here today that an MP from this democratic bloc criticises the government and the authorities as they behaved during the purchase of the raspberries, and where the largest malfeasances and machinations arose, at least as far as the trade lobby and these trade tycoons that abused the peasants and his bloody work. If we look at everything you promised the peasants in the election campaign, you promised the workers, it slowly goes into the fog. One of the most recent examples is the import of retromaterials or should I say those instructions used in agriculture. Without any control, they come to the market, or are offered to farmers, farmers. The latest example is imports of artificial fertilizer from Kutina, where the packaging contains one quality, while in laboratories where the controls are carried out... Please, you want three of you, or go out for a pay phone and talk, or wait for me to say, "It's a shame, it sucks." I'm not a specimen, I'm not...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4113	May I have your attention, please? Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4114	Since I've heard a lot of beautiful, ugly qualities about you and your hometown, if you want to say anything, come out for a pay phone and say it. So you realize that once again there's been a diversion on agriculture, because what's being imported is without any declaration, the declaration doesn't match what's on that declaration, but it's quite another thing, which is the opposite that the quality of the fertilizer is not three fifteens, but three eights.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4115	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4116	Our mineral fertiliser factories are slowly shutting down, allegedly because the state won't help them import raw materials so they can produce, that they can produce quality artificial fertilizers and that it's on that envious level where we used to compete around the world when we exported that product. In the end, I have to say, what happened in Pocerina, Machva, Posavotamnava, at the time of the purchase of these products now, raspberries, cherry and blackberry, is one of the biggest mugging peasants ever committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4117	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4118	Thank you very much. There have been words so far about the beginning, the creation of a broadcasting mafia and the problems over the blackberries. They're both very important topics. Reporting under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I have the following questions. Since there is also a problem in kickoff of the regional frequency of Radio Kickinda, which has been broadcasting the programme since 91, and has been broadcasting the programme in Hungarian since the beginning, both in Hungarian and in Serbian, and since ten years ago and in Roma, there is a programme, news. With this abolition of the regional frequency of Radio Kickinda, I believe that the rights of all citizens, and Serbs, have been violated, because it is the only radio in kickinda that has a complete program, has news, conveys sessions of the assembly. The further question, who and whose warrant took away the Radio Kickinda frequency, to which the regional frequency has been allocated, because there is no radio in Kickinda that has a full information programme, has only a few minutes of news, all music radio stations are. Then, no radio broadcasts in Hungarian, and I think these are the rights of national minorities, because they do not have the right to receive information and do not have the right to program in their native language. Radio Kickinda since its founding, and it has not occurred to anyone so far to end this radio, has won numerous awards, starting in 94 - The Vojvodina Radio-Difusing Organisations Association awarded the third prize, because it was the beginning, the Vojvodina 95 Radio-Disease Organization Association - the first award for music show, the Vojvodina Radio-Disease Organizations Association in 1996 - the first prize for reporting, the second prize for Tonya Realisation, etc., each year Radio Kikinda received awards. So I don't see what that's all about, except for a purely political reason, to end the regional frequency. Radio Kickinda, while it had a regional frequency, covered the area of Northern Banat, where 47% of Hungarians live. There are about four percent of Roma in Kikinda, so this yellow democracy shows that there is nothing there from democracy. Radicals have not been abolished, radicals do not mind Hungarian-language shows. And that's why the question is, who is in the Broadcasting Agency, which is the party or who is the smart one who took the right to shut down the broadcast across the regional radio kickinda frequency?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4119	Thank you. We'll pass on your question. National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226, "the MP has the right and obligation to be informed", and the obligation that does not appear in Article 226, but is understood - the MP must also inform the public. (President: He has the right, Mr Markovic, to be informed. There is also a obligation, though you do not use that obligation. I got two answers to the MP's questions. One answer from Mr. Jocic, the police minister and one answer from Mr. Aleksandr Popovic. I am pleased with Alexander Popovic's reply, because he only sent me the NIS response, which I am not satisfied with, and I am not pleased with Mr Jocic's reply. That's why I have some things to explain. The last paragraph of Mr. Jocic's reply says: "The criminal charges mentioned are not covered by the commercial director of the NIS Refinery Novi Sad, nor by any responsible person in the NIS Refinery Novi Sad, the last name Balać, which is stated in your act forward of that number." In my question, it was about the conflict between the Trizon and the leadership of the New Sad Refinery. There's a state damaged by over 10m euros and I'm just asking why this face, the last name Balac, which was the commercial director of the New Sad Refinery, is not covered by this investigation? And speaking of which, let me ask. How damaged the NIS is by allowing the management to through, quote, "sponsorships, donations, humanitarian aid, sports activities, representation, advertising, propaganda, promotional activities and total", in response to the NIS, I received about 400 million. I read from the draft adopted by the Government of Serbia, which refers to the NIS coster, the figures: "for 2006 1,061.679,000, for 2007 1.117.000,000, for 2008 1.542.000,000, for 2009 1.191.000,000"; between 1.191.00.000 and 460.00,000, there is a drastic difference, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs. And, by the time I got out, a few more questions. I ask the Minister of Energy - how much crude oil NIS imported through NOIL - KOIL from Cyprus and who owns it, and does this owner have anything to do with the import of Syrian oil before last year? Furthermore, how much gas, liquid oil gas, from the company Integras from Hungary and IPN from Bulgaria imported this firm for NIS needs? What are the merits of Boško Vučurević, the replaced director of NIS Pančevo, to be appointed special adviser to Srdjan Bosnjakovic, the current director of NIS, unless the ministers from the DSS, Mr Bubalo and Mr Lončar personally intervened for him? (President: Please do not make improvisations about ministers. ) And, another question, how many in NIS a.d. have manager's contracts, manager's accessories, financial supplements, of course, and what are their salaries? I have information that there are over 70. What are the salaries, and what are the merits of these managers that, in addition to regular incomes, they get management allowances? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while we are discussing some perhaps small and peripheral matters, in Serbia there is currently an incredible robbery of state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4121	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4122	I just want to talk about the Rules of Procedure, which is about Article 1 225. Anyway, it's a good idea that we want to talk about media broadcasts in minority languages. However, I must note that the issue of information in minority languages is not just a matter of Subotica and Kickinda. I hope the previous debates from Subotica and Kickinda agree with me. This is not just a question of those minorities who are concentrated in one part of this Serbia. When we talk about this, we need to think very seriously about the system solutions. The issue of the media cannot be a question of political agreements and political pressures. The issue of information in minority languages must be one system solution, which will also be adapted to minorities who have been distributed throughout Serbia and minorities who have shown in a certain way in history that they are one of the very important connective tissues of Serbian citizens. So I'm talking about the Roma, and the other national minorities that have these properties. In this direction, I would like to inform Members that there is no regional media in Serbia that informs in the Roma language. And to Mr. Jovanovic Damnjanovic, the media "Krlo Romeo" has been abolished, it does not work in Belgrade long ago. Many estimates of both Roma and neuro, meaning all citizens, were that they were good media, that they helped to provide full information in Serbia. If that's important, I'll do it for one important indicator. Had Roma media not existed, Roma political parties could not have reached their voters in the past elections, there would have been no situation for Roma political parties to trust voters throughout Serbia, not only in one region. The fact that it is these media that are what we ask of the media -- a bridge between the state, political parties and citizens. Without this approach, we cannot talk about quality information. In this sense, a particular issue in this new law or amendments and additions to the old information law must be addressed to RTS, as a public service service, as a public service, because unless we define in an adequate way content in these media, then we have a very serious problem - that we leave the minority information issue exclusively to the non-governmental sector, we leave it to private commercial media, and that the state does not take responsibility for informing these citizens in those languages. That's what I'd end up with, since time's running out. There's no democracy without real information. The abuse of the rights of any citizen, and the rights of minorities, is unless the state is concerned about informing him in the right way. In this regard, I support both initiatives, the SVM initiative to talk about and the ruling majority's initiative to address this issue systematically, not to address this issue with the Rules of Procedure and in discussions only according to the Rules of Procedure, but to seriously ask this issue at one of the next sessions, but not just the issue of media privatisation, but the system-based solution of information in minority languages.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4123	We're moving on to the agenda. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then MP Zoran Krasic
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4124	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants, two members are at stake, and indeed a man could ask whether to amend and supplement the Law, where only two members are scheduled, deserve to be discussed. However, since there are two important members, I think it is time to say something about the essence of this law and why this law has changed in the first place. It would also be interesting if Mr. Minister told us whether his party voted for this law when it was passed, I remind you, in September 2005. Not by chance in September 2005, because several months of 2005, all of 2006 and these few months of 2007 the provisions of the laws that regulate these issues were not applied, i.e. the law was not respected, so the logical question is whether the deadlines should have been extended in the first place if so much time had passed since the law was passed. After all, the minister tells us why some provisions have not been applied. However, the minister will be in a thankless role to talk about the work of others, since he was not then a representative of the government, but now, as a representative of the government, he also has an obligation to speak about the government's policy and work in general. On the other hand, the minister suddenly came to the Assembly today to tell us about the amendments and additions to this law, because whoever was talking about it earlier in the meantime was lustrated, Mr. Balinovac. Obviously, his expertise is not at stake, but his political background, if I may use that term, is problematic and is laxtrated by the government. This is a good opportunity for us MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see what it looks like in practice when someone is the object of lustration. So it doesn't matter whether it's real or not, whether there's a court decision on lustration, but political similarities, or incomparability, will be a top criterion for someone being lustrated or not. So, when this law was passed, I have to say for the sake of the public, we Socialists then voted in favour of this law, because we honestly believed that the provisions of the laws that speak of depolitisation of the state administration, of professionalisation, of the introduction of new professional, quality people would be applied. We supported it then because we appreciated that Serbia needs a modern and efficient state administration that will meet the challenges facing Serbia. However, now, in July 2007, we see that none of this is there. The essence of the amendments and the addition of this law is that, in fact, the humane settlement of the existing government and that those people who are representatives of a political option that is not now in the government are fired. It doesn't need to be hidden, it hides behind changes and additions to this law. So, the new government, represented by the parties that make up the assembly majority, has occupied all the ministries, has appointed certain people and is now proposing a change, since there is not enough time to formally undermine all this under the provisions of the law. Otherwise, I also remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the government and Mr. Minister that this new government was formed on 15 May 2007, and is now July 2007. Of these 45 days, if the law was previously respected and what was done was done, and now we hear that nothing was done, but I don't really believe it was anything, then there was a chance that even in those 45 days -- for those processes, procedures and competitions that were carried out, which were completed -- those persons who participated in the competition and who met the conditions of the competition, or the provisions of the law, would be set up. However, there is obviously no such thing. Some new people, or parties, need to be satisfied. When I mention a government report, or guidance on how to act, as I came up with a very interesting document, you will see how practically it looks in the government and how much the government has "enhanced", or how many politically-oriented people are only according to the criteria of political similarity there. I'd just like to say a little bit. Namely, the provisions of the Civil Service Act, in Article 2, are very taxing to indicate what civil servants are and what officials are. I have to mention that, because the law in Article 2 says that functioners, i.e. State officials are not MPs, the President of the Republic, judges of the Constitutional Court, members of the Government, judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and other persons elected by the National Assembly or appointed by the Government and persons who, according to the last regulations, have the position of officials. The minister quoted it, let me do so, and I, in Article 34, finds that the government is placing the assistant secretary of the ministry, director of the government's body of the ministry, assistant director of the administration, and one huge number of persons, and I mention this because the law accurately regulates what the jobs of civil servants are in the position and executive jobs. I'm talking about this because since the law was passed, we've had one three-way situation related to the implementation of this law. The law was passed in September 2005. Meanwhile, a number of competitions have been completed, though selectively, and the government has placed faces in positions. The second number of competitions has been completed and proposals have reached the government, and the third number is under trial before the competition commission, and after the public competitions have been called. At the moment when a large number of competitions were completed and the proposals came before the government, even before the parliamentary elections, the government stopped those appointments by drawing a conclusion, we also have that number of 1.2.2007, which declares itself to be a technical government, where point 3 of Article 2 states -- the government to which the mandate was suspended cannot appoint officials and civil servants. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 128, says -- the government whose term of office has ceased can only carry out tasks laid down by law until the election of a new government. The government law, in article 17, says - she can't set up officials. State officials are not officials, and the government could have, if it wanted, set up this number of persons who had passed the procedure provided for by the Civil Service Act and a job completed by the commission. She could have set these people up. By calling for other provisions of the Government Act in relation to the provisions of the Civil Service Act. The government isn't the one who can interpret those laws, it's someone else's jurisdiction. Apparently the government uses a law that is essential at a certain point. That's why a number of appointments were stopped. It's obviously about colleagues, people in the state administration, who were representatives of the SPO. They've experienced this sad fate. As soon as they are gone in parliament, they are not in the government, then they will have to pay for their political collapse and be resolved, but then it is not respect for the Law on civil servants, it is a kind of political resemblance. The Civil Service Act was not respected, and these people have to be cleared. Since I'm going to leave the other half of the time for the second call, I have to mention this, this instruction to all ministers, to see what it looks like. We all know, ministers, civil servants, they're political figures, not civil servants, but state secretaries, they can and they don't have to be. Why am I bringing this up? There is one category of persons not subject to the provisions of the Law on State Administration, the Law on Government, the Law on Civil Servants, and they are called Councilors of Ministers. Now the government's internal decision, a decision to systematise ministry posts, is prescribed as long as it can be ministerial advisers, and it is mentioned that, for example, there are 10 ministries per three advisers, six ministries per two, two ministries per one. It is in the previous Ministry Act, with a number of ministries, it is a total of 44 people. What kind of atmosphere is this, this information speaks enough. I think this will be of interest to the public. The government official writes a letter to ministers and says - you can have three advisors, you don't have to see him at all, it's possible to communicate with him online, you don't have to see each other, it's important to hear from you, and the salary of such a consultant is 90,000 dinars. I'm telling you this in the context of the story of the National Assembly. One more thing at the end of this call, there's a number of faces in the cabinet. The government's internal decision also defined the number of persons there are in the cabinet, so it is predicted that one ministry can have eight people in the cabinet, three ministries per seven, five ministries per six, five ministries per five, two ministries per three, which is a total of 90 people and they last while the minister lasts. These 90 people and 44, that's 134 people who are politically similar. That's before the new ministries were formed. With new ministries, the number of people who are cabinet members and the number of people who are ministers is growing. I'm telling you this because this story of depoliticalization of the administration, of professionalization, of professional, quality personnel is not true, as neither is the essence of the amendments nor the addition of this law. The government had, that it wanted, enough time to apply the provisions of the Civil Service Act and to complete the competitions and to set up the persons who had passed all the conditions of the competition. Otherwise, the competition is very detailed and the conditions are very clear and difficult, but the government didn't want it. This is obviously about a political need for the government to meet the needs of a partner in the government and to appoint new people. You will see only when we talk about some ministries and the number of people appointed, i.e. state secretaries, who are supposed to be another man in the ministry, in some ministries a number of state secretaries have been appointed, so that the idea itself has led to absurdity. In any case, these amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act are not at all naive to what they look like and there is no point in mentioning that some 400 people are waiting, that only twenty are appointed. He's right, a colleague who mentioned that no general social interest can be interpreted through the fate of 200 people. Serbia has about seven million inhabitants, over a million and some employees. If they must satisfy the interests of the people they work with, that is to say, but must not be called upon to general provisions and the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4125	The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a chance, and I want to thank the SPS MP group for inviting me to discuss these laws and in their rooms, that is, at the meeting of their parliamentary group. I am sorry that other parliamentary groups, except for the DS, did not use that possibility. I hope that in future, especially when there are laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and local self-government, so this is not the law of the Ministry of State and local self-government, but when there are laws in the jurisdiction of this ministry on which I am headed at the moment, I hope that the parliamentary groups will have time to take me in for discussion to discuss all the topics and all the dilemmas. Of course, our interview at the SPS failed to answer all the topics. We have different opinions on certain issues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer Mr. Zarko Obradovic, regarding a number of his remarks. First of all, I think of what is most important, and that is the question of the relationship between the Government Act and the Civil Service Act. At the time the Government Act was passed, there was no idea of the division of civil servants. They were all officials, ministerial assistants were officials, the secretary of the ministry was a functioner. When the Civil Service Act was passed, all the persons you listed, which are specified in Article 33. Law on civil servants, they became civil servants. In this respect, those provisions of the Government Act relating to the fact that the Government cannot appoint officials after the end of the mandate, i.e. in a specific case, those persons who are now civil servants. This provision now applies to persons who have been renamed civil servants. That's why it might be that little misunderstanding. The officials are now the only ones left who are attached to politics and politicians. The Secretary of State is an official. So, the persons who follow when one set goes away, one minister leaves, one government leaves, all go away, and all of them, and it's a good thing it's done that way. So the division, those who are civil servants in office, is made to remain independent of changing political furniture. I can't talk about the work of other ministries, but if you'll excuse the State Department case and local self-government, I'd like to explain what it looks like. With your votes, i.e. the votes of the majority in this House, I became Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and at the Ministry I found administrative civil servants in the positions that passed the contest, these are the four assistant ministers and the secretary of the ministry, who remain, by force of the law, no matter what I am the new minister, they remain civil servants in office, or ministerial assistants. The only new assistant minister has come to the vacant place, you all know Mrs. Milica Dražic, so in this sense you can make sure that it is purely professionalism, not any politicisation. I think that's the general way to work in the future. I don't know how every minister works, it's a question, but I can tell everyone that my experience, while I was president of the municipality, while I was vice president of the assembly and now in the ministry, my recommendation, my advice is that, I don't need to bring new people, I need to rely on professionals, believe that relationships are far better, very clearly known who does what, and jobs are done faster. What Mr Obradovic mentioned is that I am not the minister in charge of the law, i.e. the ministry on which this amendments to the law did not work, the Secretariat of the legislation worked, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of Government are foreseen who can represent the government for certain laws. Among other things, for what the Secretariat of Law does, the director of the Secretariat is competent, or authorized to represent it and defend it against the National Assembly, but also the MPs can show their dissatisfaction with the fact that someone defends a law and that they do not like it. As a National MP, then the opposition, I have advocated that in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly it is contained that only ministers can defend the law and appear before the National Assembly, and you have before you the creation of a new Rules of Procedure and I think you should consider it. He wouldn't take it personally, whether someone likes it or doesn't like it, but what I think the National Assembly should establish for itself is the right to address them exclusively as ministers from a pay phone. I think it's up to you to sort it out, and as an MP, I stood up for it when I was an opposition, but I couldn't have any more impact on that question. As for the person in the cabinet mentioned by Mr. Zarko Obradovic, the question of how long it takes for these persons to be and I agree there, because we can look at those different ways, whether the optimal number that exists now or not is optimal, should be well assessed from the ministry to the ministry. Believe me, there's a ministry where what's supposed to be small, and believe that there are ministries for what's supposed to be more than necessary, but I think the whole thing has been taken care of not being too many. These are the I have to say, in practice, it's not what it looks like on paper. In particular, in the ministry where I am and where I work, two or three places have been filled, these furniture places, and if it can be filled in according to this rule, so six or seven, plus these special three advisors. As far as special advisors are concerned, you are wrong, as much as it was regulated by the State Administration Act, so it is not a sublegal act of the Government, but the State Administration Act regulated the existence of these special advisers and the objection was to be made at the time of the adoption of the State Administration Act, I think it is Article 27, if I am not mistaken. It's just that these are legal solutions that we can discuss. I think there should be a possibility of special saints, and if it's best arranged by the act you've been reading, I wouldn't be getting into it right now. But believe me, there are situations where a really necessary special advisor is needed, and especially given this reform that is now being carried out and that goes to a certain number of jobs being done exclusively through civil servants. As far as the questions are concerned, Mr. Obradovic, you're somewhat right, I wasn't in the government at the moment when the Law on Civil Service was passed, but I say, from February 14th, they couldn't make the appointments, they couldn't by force of the law. If it's 400, believe it's 400, because it's about that, I brought the list, we have a special organization 24 in the state, and it has nothing to do with this government or the previous one. There are 24 special organizations, the service has 11, it doesn't matter, it's nothing new and don't tie to this government, it does. So, special organizations and services have, as has the authorities of the departments, I simply didn't bring that list, because I didn't have it, honestly, and it's not my responsibility to run that list, but I brought this simply to help you in the discussion. The number of ministries is 22, special organization 24, government service 11 and believe that this comes to about 400 in total. In the end, you say it's not a general interest. I don't think the general interest can be an individual question of 200 or 400 people, but when I say that we have general interest in the powers and responsibilities they have in doing their jobs. Mr. Nikolic is not here. I would like to say to him, it is impossible to conclude contracts for the occasional performance of jobs for what is not described in the section, as it is impossible to set up contracts for the work to carry out special responsibilities. We can conclude, according to our positive regulations, only for jobs that would be intellectual businesses, making certain laws, etc. You can't make a deal now and then solve the question of this vacuum that we have now. It's just an answer, if I've succeeded, so much so that we can sort out this vagueness in part.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4127	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for this very detailed answer. He tried, to say, to prevent the negative effects of what I said and Mr. Minister, you're only in one right, I have to admit, special advisors are not part of the internal systemization rule and you're absolutely right, I'm wrong, it's a decision, it's a special decision, and now I'm going to quote a man who's very competent, and if the minister insists, I'm going to read his name, otherwise he's working in the government and he's preparing everything for the government. That man says - the minister can have three special advisors, quote, Mr. Albianic, that you know, because of you...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4129	You're not quoting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4130	"Special advisers are part of the ministry's political structure along with the secretary of state. A special adviser on the orders of the minister prepares, makes up his mind and performs other tasks. Special advisers do not establish a employment relationship in the ministry, so they are not systematised in the Internal Planning and Systematization Regulation. With special advisers, the minister concludes a contract that regulates rights and obligations. It is possible that the special adviser of the minister and does not stop at the ministry (for what he will do at the ministry), but to communicate with the minister via e-mail. The highest fee for the work of special advisors is 90,000 dinars. 'And then he says, the decision, how many special advisors he has and mentions this number 44, does not mention, but determines and says, the number of special advisors based on the existing decision. These are, Mr. Minister of Facts, and it would be good, of course, those special advisors are like state secretaries, political people, and since they're trying to depolitize the administration and state officials allegedly to be in compliance with the provisions of this law, then we'll do it. Mr. Minister, one question for you, can you inform the National Assembly if, after the formation of the Government of 15 May 2007, anyone has been put in place by the Government's decision? If it's nobody, then okay, the government respects the law. If it isn't, we'll hear it from the minister, and if it is, then the government's in trouble, because it's doing jobs that he's saying isn't working for us now and it hasn't worked, so it'll be interesting, Mr. Minister, to inform us about it. Otherwise, Serbia's public works, from the formation of this government to today, according to the documentation available to us as MPs, 41 state secretaries, 16 ministry secretaries and 59 ministerial assistants were appointed. Put this number of special advisors that don't enter these numbers 44 and that number of cabinet employees, plus a new cabinet, and you'll get an interesting figure of about 200 people. So, what I'm interested in, Mr. Minister, has the government made any decision after the formation to put certain people in these places that the law provides for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4131	National MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. I apologize, Mr. Krasic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4132	It's not a dispute, Mr. Obradic, I couldn't agree more with you. So, here's Mrs. Milica Dražic, whom you all know well, after 39 years of employment, has now become a ministerial assistant in which I am a minister, where the previous assistant minister went abroad and it is a vacant job. There has been no increase in the total number when I stop being a minister, perhaps you come Mr. Obradovic, but you've already worked at the Ministry of State Administration, and become a minister, so all that's within the cabinets and tenants is leaving, including state officials. They're government officials, political figures, they usually leave and come new. The point is, it doesn't change the professional structure. The point is when you come, Mr. Obradovic, also like me, not to insist on the shift of others who are in the ministry, it is logical that what is related to you as a political figure, as a government policy, comes and goes. Ministers, state secretaries and general secretary of government, they come and go. The tenants, the escort staff. In that sense, when you become a minister, too, you will not increase the number of employees, only what has gone with me will you replace with yours. That's totally logical. We are representatives of different policies and we are not the very essences of this policy, but we have other officials, state secretaries and so on. In that sense, you're wrong. You're right to have an appointment, but you're wrong that it's something negative, it's quite normal and natural, it's that hat that's changing, the Prime Minister is leaving, the ministers are leaving, the Secretary-General of State is leaving, and the new Prime Minister is coming instead, the new ministers, the new secretary of state. In that sense, the difference that has now been made by the Law on civil servants compared to what was the Law on Government. In that sense, the Law on Government separated what is called officials from what are civil servants. Our theme here is civil servants and we should all insist together that civil servants be immutable, that they be independent, politically independent, to be professionals. I'm telling you again, I'm really calling on everyone, for example, at the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, in the case of a paroled minister who's in front of you right now, you can determine what the essence is and what the intensity of the Law on Civil Servants is. On the one hand, you're right that there are certain settings, but you're wrong when you insinuate that it's something negative. It's not negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4133	National MP Zarko Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4134	Mr. Albianic, all in good time. I think you're more concerned about seeing what happens to the governor and so on. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister answered something I didn't ask him, and what I asked him was avoided, but it's part of the way we address this assembly. I accept that as a way of speaking, and I don't accept what he said. I don't mind you taking as a positive example this ministry, I'm glad, otherwise I've worked with that ministry before, and I think best of all about both the ministry and the people who worked in that ministry. Professionals do their jobs, but I'm not talking about one ministry, I'm talking about most of the ministries that are here, and I'm just calling on one piece of paper that I've come to, where those questions I've asked are very meaningful, because here is the point if it was insisted that the Law on civil servants be changed, so that the appointments of civil servants are done, then I guess it should be respected for everyone. If it was not respected, but it went selectively, then it is confirmed that the the thesis that I presented at the beginning of today's presentation that the essence here is actually to satisfy the political appetites of the parties that are in the government, which have brought their people or will bring their people to those jobs. It is simply necessary to make changes and amendments to the law in order to create formal conditions. Mr. Markovic, no one, I mean, in this assembly is against the efficient work of the administration. Here's the point if the government is in favour of depoliticalisation in administration, professionalisation, expertise and so on, it's interesting that on the other hand the number of people who enter the government on political criteria is increasing. That's the essence of the whole story. Whether anyone understands it or not, no offense, I'm not going to give an interpretation of it. The bottom line is that these people who are now part of the government structure, these state officials, these provisions of the law will be accepted in competition and other things, and that is why they are proposed in 2008, and they will be as non-partisan personalities, they will be professionals, plus those I mentioned, state secretaries, first of all, by law, but also these special advisers and within cabinets. Calculate how many people it is, but computers don't count, it's a huge number, but it's the essence of people in one political option, with one being called professionals and part of a depoliticized administration, and part of course is part of party structures in the new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4135	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4136	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you heard in Mr Nikolic's statement to the Rules of Procedure that there are both business and constitutional reasons to withdraw this law on behalf of the Government, because it is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm just coming from an unscheduled session of the Legislative Committee. Since the majority of parliament has no quorum to maintain the Legislative Committee, they say that some members are on vacation, mostly not there, and that is one reason to end this debate, to withdraw this draft law from the agenda, because in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are under the obligation of the Legislative Committee to consider the draft laws, other regulations and general acts. This is, I know that the chairman will now, after this intervention, say that the committees are not obliged to deliver their opinions and that this is not the condition to discuss the law, and I warn you that, given the infringements announced by both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, that this is more the reason that the Legislative Committee had to take a stand on this bill. Of course, we had the intention of the SRS, we were all in front of the hall where the session of the Legislative Committee was held with the intention of trying to explain to the members of the Legislative Committee that they had to explain to the minister and the assembly majority that there were no conditions to discuss this law, that this bill was completely pointless, inadmissible, late, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic said. I repeat, given that there was no quorum of the Legislative Committee and that it probably will not be during today, because I heard that colleagues of the Legislative Committee are not in Belgrade, I hope that you will not repeat something that has happened in parliamentary practice to hold meetings both through the telephone and so on, that votes from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, do not know where everything comes from. Today, it seems that the vote from Strasbourg or Paris, as far as I know, should be voted, so that it does not happen, Mr. Milan Markovic, withdraw this bill. Otherwise, we will in the course of the debate both in principle debate and in particular to warn you of all possible violations of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. You, I had the impression, until you became a good lawyer, you were obviously no longer, but I'll talk about it when I talk about the bill, unless you follow the smart advice and withdraw this unconstitutional proposal from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4137	Mrs Radeta, the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 29 June 2007, discussed the draft law amending the Law on civil servants submitted by the government and submitted a report. I guess it's about details, so I guess they'll figure it out. This is a debate in principle. Thank you for your remarks. National MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4138	Same target same distance. Last year, at this time, we were reviewing the law that regulated the salaries of civil servants and deputies and now again. In 2005, we discussed the Law on civil servants and tenants. Then the SRS parliamentary group warned the government, Balinovac, what would happen to the law. They said nothing would be wrong, it would be all right, and here we came for our own, so what just changed the minister or reporter, the government's representative, is a decorative change. Milan Markovic has almost repeated all of Balinovac's views two years ago. It doesn't make any principleal difference. Besides, you're all in a democratic bloc. Although you had me confused at first this morning with that apology, but then I realized, since it was July, the Democrats usually apologize in July for the serial, non-selective. Dear viewers, in the case of the Law on Civil Servants and Landowners and the Law on Their Salaries, and that is all one and the same subject, regardless of this law that changes anything, they are reminded of Nusic's actions, "Mrs. Minister", "Suspecting Face". Take heed, Vasso, when he is elected minister, We shall place the incompetent child as a trustee, and the appointment, and which class. The theme is the same. So Nusic described in a universal way what the government in Serbia looks like. Before I get involved in any concrete suggestions about what to change in this law, I just have to draw your attention, when they set the Federal Assembly on fire, they came to power, they said -- we found a useless fit in the ministries, it all needs to change, they don't know English, they don't know they're working on computers, they're all working on some political criteria, they're all seas out, and they did it in the first run. By September 2001, some ministries had been cut in half. Of course, they immediately brought in their experts who had no idea of life. I came up with some documentation about how it was done in the meantime, especially here in the National Assembly, and also in the ministries. There's time to lay it all down nicely, to explain it nicely, so that this swan song of the government can be understood about this law, as an urgent need now, something epochal is happening. If that's so epochal, then explain to me why you didn't file this bill in December of this year. What's the reason you filed it now in July? You could have done it in December. And December next year may be a period that covers the period of office of this government, but it is your logic that in the last member of the law on amendments and additions or lastly put - retroactive application of the provisions and return to the date of July 1st, because that is such a way, that is such psychology. Today, we don't have a law that applies to these civil servants in office. Zarko Obradovic has asked a nice question since the government was elected to date whether the government has appointed an assistant minister. There's no answer. Milan came out, told this story, tendencies, flows, efforts, good wishes. We know your good wishes, drop-system, that's the right definition for a democratic block, drop where you are. To get back to work. So, in 2000, a lot, and then start in 2001, 2002, in 2003, hire everything and everything, and then, of course, a new set of democratic blocs, new parties, and then G17, New Serbia, started to hire them. Now a new government has formed, move on to work. How's it going? I'm reading the data that the government has published in its draft budget law, so this year at the end of the year, we're going to have 258,332 employees in different variants with the status of civil servant and substitutes, although there are, I must say, police, military, there are these so-called. social activities, means a complete system of health, education, etc. In all these table reviews, where there is an orderly indication of how much it will increase this year, there are places where it is increasing, the ministries, there is no end of the aggregated data, so that there is no way to see how many new ones that have to be employed. There will be new ones who will be hired. Why? They have to take their people home. How do they get these out? They can't drive them away because they're from a democratic bloc, too. The personnel structure in all ministries is now based on some January 2001, and what has little older is the remains of the past. However, the remains of the past are very useful when a big hole appears due to the inability to provide personnel from the future. When they turn 36, 37, or 39, they will pass as Perisa Jovanovic, six months of availability and a year on the bureau to exercise pension rights. Are you telling me that Perisa Jovanovic is not a professional? A real pro for his job, but what's worth when Cesid had to come here, and Perisha's not in Cesid, it doesn't fit, and then you're talking some fairy tales here, there's supposed to be professionals, there's a need for these, like that. What story, who's he telling? The story of this, the story of B92. Today we face a close past and what it was in 2001, who was in friendly relations with whom, in 2003, who was visited by a mobster, we face the past, what changed the law, or the new Law on civil servants, the new law on their salaries, but in the legal system there are other holes. The previous law applies to, say, autonomous provinces and local self-government, but does not apply to these civil servants and deputies who are in government jurisdiction. Of course we're against the competition. Why are we against competition when it comes to ministerial assistants? Because they're not experts at all, they're just politicians. To them, a graduate economist, a graduate lawyer is only a condition to come to the political position of assistant ministers, and in a job description, political work. Political work is in the ministry if new solutions are sought, if new solutions are found, and then discrimination is made and they are divided, there is a civil servant in the same office, and across from him a deputy. Now look at the paradoxal situation. Because the level of law could not move or be reduced when adopting the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, we now have this situation: that the civil servant who does a job has 30,000 dinars of salary, and the one who is new, accepted by some competition, has 12,000 dinars, and the same job is done. That's what these Democrats invented. Is there more discrimination than a democratic bloc does? As possible, people in the same office, at the same table, and two different salaries. Now here's the civil servant to resign and the next day allegedly re-employ with his ministry, he'll have twice as much pay. That's what the generals came up with, these geniuses, European trends. Where is it in Europe, people? Tell me, what country does he have that in? It's at Nusic's, and you're out of Nusic's section. There's, uh, Nusic's. You have these advisors, e-mail counselors, right? What he says, you don't even have to see him, but 90,000 has to take it. When I criticized you last year, June 6th, for that, you say - hate speech. I said what would happen. You came here with that law now. Now it's a speech of love, there you go. Serbia cannot withstand the Democratic Party's experiments, it cannot. There's a sword coming around you, but the Democrats are getting a job. Here comes the kitty around you, the DSS gets a job, this guy hires his own, and you got this situation. We don't have the right information about what's been employed and how it's been employed since 2000, since democracy came. On some examples, I will show you what it looks like in the National Assembly. Here's the thing. One project takes a year, from June 1st last year to May 31st this year. The project is worth 135,600 euros. The German government approved 50,000 euros for activities in the National Assembly. Someone concluded the contract, and then said: the background and justification of the project, and the users of the project, and the project's objectives. And we come - employment. There, the Government of the Republic of Germany dictates employment, employment of the Public Access Coordinator. He says the OSCE will fund the coordinator for a year, with the possibility of being employed in the National Assembly for an indefinite period of time. The co-ordinator's employment costs are 7,200 euros. Does anyone know about this? Is anyone authorized to conclude this? No, I don't. It doesn't matter. Here's a project. Let's move on, again, the famous OSCE, says this - a memorandum of understanding, about the Staff Office in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Well, there's now the opening of the staff office and it says, the contract for the chief of staff and his assistants must be in line with the following conditions. So they don't care about the law. The OSCE says what the conditions are and you don't care. You do what you want with your laws here. According to one, the contract will be in accordance with the Republic Labour Act. The hell. Two, both employees will have health insurance, disability insurance and death insurance, as well as pension insurance in accordance with special republican laws and sublaws. Third, the head of staff will be offered a basic monthly salary that will not be less than 21,000 dinars, and the assistant will receive a monthly salary of no less than 15,000 dinars. Then there are obligations, obligations, and in the end there is no tax. Then why are you chasing these privates? You're chasing these guys down the street and you're saying there's an undeclared employee. Well, here it is, the Assembly has an undeclared employee, no taxes. With what right do you chase down the street? You're a crime scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4139	Mr. Krasic, please don't insult the National Assembly. The Assembly has a systematization of jobs and proper employment is carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4140	Mr. Albianic, I'll consider that you didn't say anything. Next, look at the wonders, that contract was signed by an MP, one of yours here. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] The MP signed. Let's move on. Contracts concluded with international organisations, 2003 The memorandum of co-operation of the Centre for Resources of the National Assembly in co-operation with the US Embassy in Serbia is a abbreviations of the NDI; a Memorandum of Cooperation between the International Development Agency IBM EPI; and a Memorandum of Understanding, a programme of support to the Assembly, concluded between the OSCE, Mission to Serbia, and the National Assembly. Well, on top of that, student practice program at the National Assembly. I'm quoting this because it's all been followed by employment. Here you go. They teach us what we do not know to work in the congregation. And then they say, Canada's Parliamentary Centre - it is achieved in terms of professional and material support to management and employees in the development of staff management policies, job descriptions, impact assessments in work. Well, they teach us these things. Then why do we need the Ministry, what do we need the State Service if we need every piece of shit to come and teach us something? He goes on to say -- the co-operation of the National Assembly with the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of the Armed Forces. So he says -- a programme for advisers in the parliaments of Southeast European countries. The programme to provide expert assistance to parliamentary defence and security committees in their efforts to strengthen democracy, civil structures and, of course, employment. Here you have a dozen such projects where they hire, you don't pay taxes, you don't pay contributions, you just go into a working relationship in the state service. There's another piece of paper here, but I won't now that my father's gone. It is a report by the budgetary inspection, when the G17 and the Democratic Party were not in good relations, in 2004, where it was found that this Milan Lucic, he is still hanging out in this assembly, which is understood by the rights of a woman who is a graduate lawyer, is, and around this fund for those three curtains, according to Batic, in the Federal Assembly that were burned, has disappeared 6,000,000 dinars, disappeared through the Fund. Drop-system. Of course, here I only want to focus on the part that changes the law. You in this law want to extend the deadline. Why? So it'd be legal to do what's done. I'd believe it's true that all of this has been legal so far. But it's not legal. You are the majority of ministerial assistants, who passed some staff committee and were to make a decision on their admission, conditioned that they could stay on those jobs if they accepted to be members of a political party and that of the minister taking over a particular ministry. Whoever accepted it still stayed. Because if under this law the government couldn't choose the new assistant ministers because there was no competition, it couldn't set them up, then it couldn't even solve the existing one. And she solved the existing one. Fifty of them are cleared. They're going to run a lawsuit against you, I'm going to help them, you know, and then you robbed the Boston. There'll be more disputes about this. Because in this forest of laws, we now have a situation that we don't have a regulation that needs to be applied. Here, now to appoint a deputy, or assistant minister, you have no regulations on how to set him up, on the basis of which law to appoint him. According to this new one, the competition has not been conducted. By the 1st of July, these had to be out of function. I'm talking about civil servants in position. Of course, I'm telling you, when the SRS comes to power, the first day changes this law. Why? All your assistant ministers are political figures. That's what you tell others that, I don't know, they're big experts or some experts. They're not, they're making politics, they're participating in policymaking. No regular advisor, no regular reference, no dactylographer, no mailman, no one in the office participates. Already the head of the department participates in policymaking. You said writing the law would be in the ministries, it wouldn't go out, because you wanted to get the state administration so that the trust would be in the ministries, and the execution in the decentralised parts, that no more ministry services would be used. So we're in the field of absolute lawlessness. They don't need the law. They ended up without the law. Appetizers are satisfied, currently satisfied. Now they're looking at how to fit into some form. Here, now what you're doing is the same as in December of this year you applied for amendments and additions to this law and in the preceding article that you wrote - a retroactively applied previous article from July 1st, 2007. So there's no good story. I've got a little more time. Mr. Chairman, it would be interesting for all the MPs, that before any decision on this bill was made, we get a table review of what has been employed in the services of the state administration since 25 January 2001, as the date on which the first democratic prime minister of the government came to Serbia, probably because he is a member of the Democratic Party, when prosperity in Serbia prevailed, to see how busy he is, so we will look for names and last names, after which party, which branch, which is a faction and so on. For what? To take off the face imposed by the democratic bloc. They generally judged everything that was before, and I'm telling you that the previous law that regulated the employment relations of government employees was for two classes better than this, if for nothing else then for not discriminating among employees. This one discriminates among employees. As a criterion, you have taken whether someone is doing direct tasks related to the application of regulations, it is some work on administrative matters etc. That's just bullshit. Of course, we will vote against this bill. We have submitted two amendments, and we will be happy to explain these amendments. Mr. Albianic, it would be really useful to discuss how busy it is, how busy it is, how much through competition, how much to bring. We haven't caught Article 15 yet. The law on the salaries of civil servants and officials, it's that special feline of those who are within the cabinet, special advisors, who are e-mail associates, who can do whatever they want. They should advise the minister, if so many advisers should have a minister, then we don't need a minister like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4141	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. I give my word to the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shane, you have five minutes as an MP who doesn't belong to any of the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4142	I'd just like to point out, since I have a relatively short period of time, so I'm going to try within these five minutes and that time that I have on the amendment completely my own exposure to design, so I'm going to ask the MPs to understand it that way. For the Roma Party, the introduction of this law and analysis and the debate on this agenda point is also an opportunity and to bring the whole issue of the functioning of the state administration into line and to open another issue and our idea, and hopefully all MPs, that the state administration must draw closer to the citizens, that the state administration must be increasingly in the function of citizens until we reach this absolute goal, that it is indeed a state administration that is solely in the function of citizens. In order for it to really be, it must establish constitutional principles and certain constitutional principles and solutions to be realized in its work. In this sense, for the members of the Roma Party of great importance are the application of, practically, the members of the Constitution 15, 21 and 77, therefore, constitutional provisions that speak of the need in Serbia to understand in a different way the position of different sexes, the question and the position of people with disabilities, as well as the question of national minorities. The Constitution has given us the opportunity to solve this issue in a different way. The Law on civil servants is one of the laws where we should affirm these constitutional principles and all this can bring us closer to defining Serbian society, as a modern, European society that really takes care of all its categories. That this is really important is the fact that in many municipalities we do not have the ability not only to enter disabled people to be service users, but there is not one civil servant or clerk who works in these administration bodies. Then, we cannot ignore the fact that Roma is almost not in municipalities and at other levels of government in the state administration, and we must all acknowledge together that we are all citizens of this state of Serbia, that we all respect the laws of Serbia. However, different groups, different categories have specific lifestyles, have specific habits, a specific culture, and unless we have the opportunity to make these specific habits and that this specific culture is properly understood in the state administration, then we have a situation that is essentially in an unequal position for those people who have a different culture, who have different needs and different habits from those of the people who are now in the state administration. In that sense, the Roma Party and I, as MP of the Roma Party, have proposed one amendment. To my satisfaction, in consultation with both the minister and his service, I think that we have found the best possible solution at this point, which is in order to create conditions that in the full sense of these ideas that I have talked about are coming true, but it is indeed going to track down that Serbia cannot solve the accumulated problems overnight, that we cannot in this term or in these appointments solve these problems and define the state administration of human beings as best possible. In its amendment, the Roma Party has given us enough space to find the best possible solutions, but with one very clear obligation that the state administration must worry about the employment process of these issues that I have talked about, and how in my work, I will conclude this part of the exhibition, with the possibility that when I talk about the amendment to further elaborate, that the state indeed through its civil servants, through the state authorities of the administration must be exclusively in the function of citizens. And that we are no longer in the situation of whether citizens should come to the authorities of the state administration or to the municipality, or to the province, or to the republican authorities because of what they need, but that we need to redefine that position and that we need to understand that both the Assembly and the state authorities of the other, and the state authorities of the administration exist for these citizens... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and that we are in favour of adapting ourselves to the way of life of citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4143	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the bill on amendments to the Law on civil servants, which lies ahead, it may be necessary to explain to the citizens what the content of this law is. One sentence only, not to apply the law on July 1st 2007, as planned, but to postpone application in the part of the law until May 2008. That's the whole content of the law. So, as you can see, the little text but the big message, and the essence of that message is actually disseminating the policy of the government of so-called. A democratic block, because from this you can see, and I'll tell you a few examples later, that one story, and the other one works. Two key words also when the Law on civil servants was passed, and when it was to be applied, and now that it is being changed, the depoliticalization of the administration and the professionalisation of the administration is also in election campaigns. Then, when the law was passed and those two key words were said, and yet European, who wouldn't support it, so so did we. In fact, it turns out that the government confused those two words, so it changed the order. By amending this law, it makes it clear that the administration is politicizing and deprofessional, so the order of these words is wrong. And, of course, enormously increases. The prime minister's argument that the government could not place state officials in their positions, no offense, Mr. Minister, is not correct. The government, according to the Government Act, was unable to appoint officials at the time of its termination. The civil servants' law said that civil servants are in no position to function. So, what's the interference? If it's really a depoliticisation idea, professionalization, if the competitions are published, if the competitions were conducted, if the really good people participated in the competition, then what difference does it make who will set them up, if it's depolitized. That's not true. Or the government doesn't recognize the Civil Service Act, so it says -- you know what, we used to think they were officials, so since they weren't, well, we thought we should apply what we thought they were still functioning. In addition, the law was passed in 2005, effective on July 1st, 2006. So, a year ago, not to talk about that period of eight months ago, there was enough time for all the preparations to be made, to organise all the commissions, all the necessary, to dissipate the competitions, to conduct competitions and setups. It's not done. For what reason? For political reasons, because then it would really be depoliticized and professionalized, and that's something that's only for us to talk to in public, and we're essentially doing the opposite. The government suspended its mandate on 14 February 2007, according to the technical government. And even for that three-month period, when the agony lasted who, and how and how to form a government, there were no legal interferences that the competitions that were carried out to the end would not be legal disturbances because they were not officials but by law civil servants. But let's do that period. It's 45 days from May 15th to July 1st. If there was a desire to really do this job right, then the minister has left us with several answers here. First, how much is set up after the competition. Secondly, how many competitions and proposals have reached the government. Third, how many competitions were completed that were in front of the commission. Fourthly, if they are not set up, and as we have just seen, 59 assistants, Mr. Minister, reacting to Dr. Zarko Obradovic for 59 assistants, so state officials in office, you replied that the State Secretary of Government should be appointed etc. So, are there any of these 59 ministerial assistants who have applied for this place, have passed the procedure, met all the conditions, not chosen, but chosen others? The next question, which is also very important, means a very important question to say why they are not selected? Well, at least then the government wasn't technical. Of course, another question for you, Mr. Minister, to really confirm that this is professionalization, it would be very interesting to name all these names, not to mention that nepotism well-known, the husband of the minister, the wife of the assistant minister, etc., I was saying, it's funny to talk all the time, it's become normal. But do these ministerial assistants really meet the conditions under the Civil Service Act, which is nine years of professional work experience? And, of course, what's in the profession, does that mean if a surgeon has been a regular surgeon for nine years, does he meet the conditions, because, well, in that profession he's had so much work experience? So when you look at it all, what's the point of the whole story? The bottom line is the story of continuing to politicise the administration, to continue non-professionalization and enormous increase. Please, just a few days ago, we had a budget on the agenda. Who of you remembers, when he looked at that personnel plan, as they now call it, could have noticed that since December, I'm not talking about someone who doesn't know what time, until May, or June, when the budget was increased by about two thousand people, but I'm just talking about ministries and special organizations, I'm not talking about the military, police, education, etc., they're being banned from increasing. For example, the Ministry of Health, which runs an exceptional campaign to reduce the number of health employees, is increasing the number of employees in the Ministry of Health. Not to exemplify this miracle from the Dinkic Ministry of Economics, where 200 new people are more, besides those taken over. Not to speak examples of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, although part of the staff has left, plus another 36, not to speak to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports plus 74, plus the Department of Sports 79, and not to count more, two thousand people are more than December to July. These are characteristics and this amendment of the law aims to simply verify it. It's not just an example in Serbia, here's an example in Belgrade, where it's also so-called. A democratic bloc in power. A month ago, there was a big public debate over the appointment of 27 directors of health institutions in Belgrade, the opposite of union positions, both to the professional public and employees. Only by political likeness was it done. So, the government's story is one thing -- how it's for depoliticization and professionalization, and this is essentially the other way around. This is politicization, this is deprofessionalization and enormous increase, and that's the essence of the whole thing. The point is that the amendments to this law put state officials in positions as political figures in order to create conditions for the same government to declare them depolitized, or professionalised for the next year. For those reasons, we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4145	Mr. Minister, come in. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4146	I feel the need, when the discussion is of quality, to simply exchange views on this subject, so I would now take the opportunity to say a few things about previous speakers. First of all, Mr. Shane mentioned one subject, I think it's a very important topic. We will certainly accept this amendment, it is important to affirm this principle in other laws, but also in principle, it should all be regulated by a comprehensive law that would resolve the issue of participation in public life, employment opportunities, etc., all those who today are discriminated on by various grounds, which I think is generally not government policy, but is simply due to them having certain problems in their socialization, whether they are national minorities or persons with certain health problems, or they are some other marginal groups, etc. So it's something that we're going to solve, probably very quickly, by some comprehensive law, but it's not burning that we in this law already point out as a principle and that we're asking for simple employment in the state administration to take care of it. As for my esteemed colleague, Zoran Krasic, I must admit, in your twenty-minute presentation, there was little about the Civil Service Act, even less about the State Administration Act, and for the Government Act, nothing at all. I understand that it was part of your political views that you wanted to make for the pay phone. You mentioned a few things, so I'd like to give you an answer. You mentioned the name of a man who worked here, Mr. Perisa Jovanovic, we all know him well. I personally offered Perishi Jovanovic an extremely good and high place at the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, esteeming his expertise and professionalism, rather than taking care of whether he was politically defined or not. If so, you know well that it is certainly not defined according to my political definitions and principles. It's a notice for you, when you're already judging us that we're doing some politicisation or that we care about those political miles. As far as wages and discrimination are concerned, I absolutely don't understand what you were talking about. I asked, and my assistants, we absolutely don't understand what you were talking about. How do you think people work on the same jobs and have different salaries, except for the part about age difference? I don't know where that exists. I'd like you to tell me where it exists. If, on the other hand, you mean the position of assistant minister and driver in the ministry, they really have different salaries. If you mean two ministerial assistants, they certainly have the same salary. Honestly, I don't know, and it would be my pleasure if you'd explain it to me. You asked the basics, how jobs are now being done and work relations stopped. You can find that in article 179. Law on civil servants. It is fully stated that a working relationship is being established, i.e. the position of persons now becomes a person in position and ceases to be persons in position. It is not true that there is no legal basis. It's fully defined and stated. Third, you're talking about lawlessness, etc. These are political qualifications I can't get into. I have not heard from you what is an alternative to this situation, when we have the Law on civil servants, one deadline has been laid down in the Law, after the expiry of that term, the office of officials who are in office and the officials who are in office have certain special responsibilities concerning the coordination of the work of the authorities, or the sector. What's the solution? That's all right, I must say, Mr. Petronievich, and for you. You voted that bill, I was an opposition. I don't see what the difference was then and now. I understand that everything may not be great, but I understand even more that it is not right that the law has not been implemented until the end, or that the competitions have not been carried out, but we are entering an incredible discussion here, it is seen through some amendments, that I don't even know the answer to the question of what to do now. There can't be an alternative-- come on up, that's better, or come on, it's nothing, chaos, I don't know what. We have to deal with this situation by law. Mr. Misa Petronijevic says the essence of the law is not to apply the law. No, Mr. Petronievich, the point is to postpone the application of provisions relating to deadlines. I agree with you, it would be nicer if it wasn't there, but there is. We can't go any other way. Since February 14th, the government has had no right to appoint. I don't agree with you here, and yet again, I claim that the government had absolutely no right to appoint. Assistant ministers, according to previous regulations, were appointed to their posts by the minister and appointed by the government. They were de facto officials. When the Government Act speaks of officials, it speaks of assistant ministers, directors of special organisations, deputy directors and assistant directors of special organisations, directors of administration bodies within ministries, etc. They were all covered by the term "functioners." Then comes the Law on civil servants and the law secretes a significant number of these people from the concept of officials and translates them into a system of civil servants, established by the Law on civil servants, for which you then voted. If we say that the Government Act applied to everything called functionaries, it also referred to those who are now civil servants in positions. We can't say that they're not those faces anymore, let's say for them that the government's authority is valid. Why would government authority apply to them and not apply to officials? Conversely, Mr. Petronievich. In the future, the following rule should apply: that the government can set up officials until the last day. I think you agree here that the Government can appoint the Secretary-General of the Government, the Secretary of State, etc., but must not, during the term of office, put state officials in office. State officials are professionals, and these are political figures who follow the fate of the government. When the minister goes, they go, too, when the Prime Minister goes, so do those who are directly bound by the Prime Minister. There's this fundamental difference. That's why I don't think you're right about that interpretation. I don't see any other way to interpret the fact that the Civil Service Act has eliminated a part of those that are functioners, or that this was about the whole spectrum of these people we're talking about right now. Now I would like to change the Law on Government, that Article 17, and predict that the Government can appoint officials, because they are political figures, but not to put state officials in place, so that the government could not do so after February 14th. A nonstop question is asked - who's asked? The appointments are public, they're all published in the official messenger. You have it and you know it, there's no dilemma at all. You see the names and names of these people. Mr. Petronievich, I just don't know who's set up. How can I talk about who's set up? I don't follow who's in the ministry. I can't give you the answer to that question. You can ask a parliamentary question, so the Human Management Service gives you an answer, and I can't give you an answer, I really don't have one, I haven't even prepared myself for that kind of question. It's political, but I'm not prepared for it. So the answer you can get, it's not a secret. You asked if they met the conditions. Also, you have to ask for an answer from the Staff and I believe you'll get it. There's no reason not to get it. You have to get, it's your right. I'll tell you about my Ministry. Ministerial assistants, all of them, meet. They have from 39 years of employment, as many as Ms. Milica Drazic has, up to some 16-17, as much as the youngest assistant minister has. Everyone meets absolutely all the conditions, including Mr. George Florist, secretary of the ministry. Everyone meets the legal requirements and I see them as professionals. Someone here mentioned, I think Mr. Krasic, says they must join the political party. I'm saying they don't have to. I'm sorry if you didn't say, someone said. I've never told anyone -- join a political party to benefit. Why do I need a member of the party that joins in this way? That member doesn't need anyone. At all, it's that logic that someone is trying to join a man who's a clerk and thinks it makes some difference. Who needs such members? You become a member of the party from the heart, from the idea, from the desire to deal with politics and to fight for an idea. You don't become a party member that way, and I don't think that's how you should become a party member. So, it's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Petronievich, and we've had an interesting discussion and with you at the Parliament Club, it's a pleasure to talk about these things. Obviously, we interpret the provisions of the Government Act and the Civil Service Act differently. Let me stay in my position. That's the government's position. I completely understand your attitude, which is different. A long time ago - two lawyers, three opinions I believe this is a proper interpretation and I think it's a good thing the government abstained from interpreting differently and putting these civil servants in positions. I expect this procedure to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this law by 1 July 2008. I'm really telling you, I think any smart minister above all will make sure that ministerial assistants are professionals, that they have adequate professional training, years of internships, etc. Believe me, I can't imagine what the ministry would look like if a party colleague were brought here. So I believe in professionalization and I believe in depolitization of the state administration. I sincerely hope that you, as MPs, will be able to follow right through the RS official's messengers to make sure that the ministries do it that way. I believe that this government and the ministers of this government will take care of it and that a truly consistent depolitisation of the state administration will be carried out through the position of officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4147	We have two replicas. First the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic and then the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4148	First, when the minister says he doesn't know something that all civil servants, officials and tenants know, then it means that there's a spread of the contagion called "unintelligence." That's what you criticized, that these sleepers are, and you're hyperactive. Now that you've seized power, you've become sleepers too. So you have in this building, walk Mr. Markovic from office to office, you have five offices where people do the same job, and they have different salaries. Let me remind you what it looks like when it's democratic. It's like that "shuki plasma," you know that famous phenomenon. He was something in the federal administration and then, a little MP, a little bit of this, a little bit of that, he picks up 40 and some pay to get out of the state service. I don't know how long it's been, there's a lot of money in there. Here he is again in the state service. I guess when someone takes the money to leave the state service and looks elsewhere for a job, there's no need to be employed in the state service. The state can't take him, she's the one who threw him out. So, a second regulation applies to the plasma shucket. Mr. Markovicu, you have not answered the question, has the government appointed any ministerial assistants since 14 February to this day? I'm not talking about those in line with the competition, but I'm talking about those vacant places when you came to power, you solved the founding assistant ministers, did some of them come to their seats, since the contest wasn't conducted. How was he implemented? Leave it to article 179. On what basis are they employed? Answer that question, given that July 1st, 2007 is a breaking date. On July 1st, 2007, all those who found themselves in those places now called positions ceased to function. They've lost their function. How could you have set someone up in these places if they hadn't had a competition, and you've set up some. We know who you set up. We're waiting for you to confess. We're gonna make you two days to go out for a pay phone and tell you who was admitted as assistant minister, no contest has been conducted, and apparently you've received it, now it's a state official in office. Explain that to us. Another thing, have you read the reasoning of this law? Read another explanation of the law, because what you're saying is not in line with the section Reasons for Law Making, first, second, and last paragraph on that side. (President: Time.) ) When you compare these paragraphs, when you read them, you will see that everything you have said goes according to the system: there goes the sword around you, be careful not to be scratched. Take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4149	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade. I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure have priority. Then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4150	You're very kind, Mr. Albianic, when you apologize to the Minister, I don't know why, and you should have taken care of the Rules of Procedure during Mr. Minister's debate. You have violated Article 104(1) in relation to Article 113 which applies to all participants in the work of Parliament, and that means for you, Mr Minister. The minister here can communicate with the MPs by specifically answering questions related to the bill. The MP can speak his political views and should, the minister must not speak his party's political views, Mr Milan Markovicu. I remember when you said the same thing from this place to some other ministers, and now to your colleagues in the government. I know you know this well, but there's a lot of things you seem to have forgotten and I insist, Mr. Chairman, that you don't allow the Minister to insult the dignity of the National Assembly. You're here, Mr. Minister, coming out and trying to tell us jokes, making fun of the MPs. You must behave in accordance with the state function you are unfortunately performing. He asked Mr Krasic who you received from February 24th as assistant minister. Of course, I'm not gonna answer that question, you're gonna answer that. But you said the government had no right to receive anyone since February 24th. We know that, but the question to you, Mr. Minister, is what about those who have been admitted. First, who they are, and secondly, what you did when you came, when you claim you were wrong, what you did, whether these people are still in those functions, in those positions, as you call them now. Mrs. Milice, please, the minister has the right to speak, and the other officials are adding papers. You know it well as an old experienced officer from this House. So, Mr. Minister, you're saying you're not taking care of who's a member of which party, that you don't think to ask anyone if he's a member of your DS. For your information, actually for public information, you know that, you boasted that George Cvetinchan's secretary of the Ministry. You don't know who he is. A close friend of Zoran Balinovac, a member of JUL at the time and secretary of the Ministry of Justice... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... At a time when I was a deputy minister; now a member of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4151	Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4152	I'll be very brief. Indeed, I've been discussing things with Mr. Krasic for years, and I think we're talking about different things now. Article 179. Law on civil servants - until the appointment of civil servants to positions, appointed persons in state bodies, whose jobs become positions, continue to work according to the regulations applicable on the day of their appointment, including the rules for the termination of office. Item 2 - if the appointed person is suspended before the position of the civil servant, the new appointment or appointment shall be carried out according to the regulations applicable on the day of the appointment or appointment of the person whose duty ceases. I don't know what different legal basis can exist except for a member of 179 who is completely clear. I don't understand what's unclear about our discussion and our controversy. Mrs. Verica reiterated the question. You're asking me if the government, since February 14, since I wasn't a member of the government, had no right, Mrs. Radeta, and that may be asked by a member of the government from that period, according to my information, not a single civil servant, if you have any other information, I have no reason to defend the period from February 14th to the formation of a new government, is not set up. If it's set up, I'm responsible for telling all of you that it was done against the Government Act. According to the information I have, no one has been set up. I suggest you tell the National Assembly the name and name of the person who was appointed after 14 February 2007. After forming a new government, in accordance with Article 15. The Government Act has the right to set up, referring to Article 179. Law on civil servants, and he has the right to make appointments. I can tell you who's in my ministry. We can take the official messenger and read who's set up in other ministries and I don't see why we're arguing about it. Finally, as for the gentleman you mentioned, the gentleman is not a member of the DS, the gentleman is a civil servant in office, the gentleman has been in that ministry for the last five years. I believe in the professionalization of the state administration. I believe in depoliticization, and I believe that we all have to obey the law. The gentleman has been appointed by law and has a mandate for another four or five years. Therefore, there is no need to mention anyone in particular. If you are very interested in my personal position, I am very pleased with the work of all civil servants in the positions that are in that ministry, which, as you know, I have not brought, but have found them in accordance with the Law on civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4153	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, is a replica of the people's envoy, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4154	Mr. Albianic, the deputy secretary should have warned you, if you failed to learn, Deputy Deputy Deputy, two provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I've really tried many ways, both formally and informally, to convince you that somehow it gets into your head. The moment the MP reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to give your word at the same time to the MP who reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your condescendingness to the members of the government, as those of the previous and present, is so much more degutant, Mr. Albianic, that he speaks enough of you. I don't know what else you have to do, take the brush in the morning, so look at Mr. Markovic's shoes, if you have to wipe his shoes, because you're used to it with Dinkic, with all the members of the previous government, so you count when you were so condescending...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4155	Miss Jovanovic, it may be your way of acting, but mine isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4156	No, it's your way of acting, so obvious, I don't know what word to use as a room of dignity, but it's really below the minimum of human dignity. When I warn you nicely, and a million times Mr Nikolic has told you that he is not the Parliament of Slaves of the Government, you are the Vice-President of the Assembly, you should protect the rights of the MPs and the right of the National Assembly over the blatant behaviour of the minister. And the minister forgot that he was in the role of the minister since May 15th, he imagined that he was still a national MP, and besides that you voted Mr. Minister when you resigned for yourself, it was only a story we can discuss, but you completely misinformed the public who may not know that you were the Milan Markovic who skipped the bench to make decisions that were not in line with the Constitution and the law. You've been immortalized for all time, you almost haven't changed, you look the same now and four years ago, when even over two benches you've skipped to vote with someone else's card or take out someone else's, make some machinations. You are now telling us, Mr. Markovic, that you are a man completely depolitized, and you have appointed a colleague of Radosavljevic from Kragujevac as your deputy. You weren't looking for someone there who was depolitized by a lawyer, you were looking for a member of the DS, who was served by DS from Kragujevac. Now, most regrettable of all, you, Mr. Markovic, along with your other colleagues, leaping over the bench or in other ways somehow, scraped that majority back then, even going so far as not to be able to work with the civil servants and by verticalizing everything to put in your ministry members of the DS, it's undeniable and cannot wash you either Sava or Danube, it is known to be so. You didn't even vote for a man in one day, I remember, it was in 2002, that you didn't know...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4157	Miss Jovanovic, I warned you that your time was up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4158	Wait a minute to hear something clever, you were then in some seal, to tell you of this flagrant example of a violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4159	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milisav Petronijevic, a replica. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) You will get the word behind the speaker immediately. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4160	Mr. Albianic, I know that you know very well that provision of the Rules of Procedure under which the application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is immediately recorded and whoever is seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure is going out for a pay phone to point to that breach before he who sought the right to reply. Please, this session will take a long time now, because you've appointed a deputy secretary against whose choice was the SRS for principle reasons. We will now begin to report to you the injuries of the Rules of Procedure until you bring in someone who can sit next to you and give you the right advice. You cannot give a word for the replica until a list of MPs has been exhausted who have asked for a word in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4161	Mr. Nikolic, you are advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you are telling your MPs to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because here is the elected deputy secretary; so that is the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you are doing. I really think of it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in such a way as to disrupt the work of the Assembly, with the legally elected deputy secretary of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4162	So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I no longer address the chairman, above all, to you, Mr. Minister, to continue that story from a moment ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4163	Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4164	Article 104 for your information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4165	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4166	It means you can't read. If you open a page in the Rules of Procedure and see what Article 104 means, it'll be easier for you to understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4167	Miss Jovanovic, you must explain why a member of the 104 was injured and whether you are insulting him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4168	The minister has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Are you following me closely? Is it slow enough for you and your thinking and understanding capacities? So, he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly by having deceived us that in the period since he was an active politician, in the whole spirit of your debate, you have addressed colleagues Krasic and colleagues Radeti, that they can lead their party's policy, that they are fighting for an idea elsewhere, and in matters like this, the choice of civil servants, or officials, that there is no politicisation. Again, to go back to only one, and there are many, but let me tell you, Mr. Markovic, when you were an MP of the ruling DS, as you are now, in one day, in violation of all the elemental norms, primarily of expertise -- and I'm not talking about the fact that you drove people by an iron broom from places where they were until October 5, 2000, that you were breaking into factories, in institutions, in the then Business, later Commercial Court, that you did it at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, or Serbia, and you're telling us about depolitisation, about expertise – and in one day you, Milan Marković, voted for it: the man who was V.D. The director of some failed rubber industry elected Judge of the Municipality Court in Surdulica, so after two months you appointed him president of the same municipal court. Then what are you talking about? Some expertise. It would be really good, I don't want to speak at all here, especially about people who don't have the opportunity to speak a word when they attend sessions and assist you, as Mrs. Radeta says, to add some documentation, but, you know, the development path of various Bora Schneiders is so interesting, so we'd better not open that story. We mentioned one earlier, as far as she or he has passed, and how many regimes would be very interesting, so you'd better be quiet and not to point out, but to say nice -- there will be the personnel that the DS from Kragujevac, Piroth, Vranja, Novi Sad, Belgrade gives me, because I am a minister and so will be while I am minister, and don't talk about any expertise, about the qualifications of people who may exist, but above all are conditioned by membership in your Democratic Party and other parties who are in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4169	National MP Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, because the minister answered questions that were not asked to him, and it is not the ones that were asked him, and it is the dignity of the Assembly. Mr. Minister, I voted in favour of the Civil Service Act because it was meant to be depolitical, professionalization, European criteria, etc. And now I'm fighting for that law, and you're offering us the opposite. That's the difference. You are offering us politicization, deprofessionalization, enormous increase, even if you will and you are devising the State Officers Act by telling us that only the Minister and Secretary of State will then be officials, and the rest will be professionals a couple of excellencies, etc. Look what you've done. Here's this famous ministry covering the entire government for the economy: six state secretaries. Who do you think you're explaining this story to? How many helpers are they gonna have? All six cover these sectors, those that need to be covered by assistants, and not to mention special advisors, the cabinets of ministers, which are not normally in the Government Act, have only the cabinet of presidents and vice presidents, not to mention numbers, an enormous increase in the number of people. But what you haven't answered, Mr. Minister: if you claim that the government couldn't set up until May 14th, you will have the need to explain to the professional public that the Government has not applied the Civil Service Act because they think they are officials, even though the Civil Service Act says they didn't. So the government doesn't recognize the Civil Service Act. You'll have to explain this to the professional public, I don't insist on it anymore, but I insist on whether some of these civil servants were put in place during that period. Then you could say what you said. We know, we have the official messenger published everything, but we expect you to answer us, because you defend these changes. I know that after the Balinian lustration, it's all about doing it, but what you don't know doesn't make you justice. You've had to come here with an explanation for why these amendments and additions to the law are being proposed. If you had told us - from 14 May to 1 July we did everything we could to receive people in the competitions that were over, who met all the conditions, which are professionals, but there we were not able to get there, we are asking that the deadline be extended for some more time to finish it. You didn't come out with that explanation and don't tell us what the alternative is. If you're telling us what the alternative to July 3rd is, of course it is, but I'm asking you why you didn't do the job on May 14th. So the key questions you haven't given an answer to are, and that's why we're different. Otherwise, I still support the law that will introduce depolitisation, professionalisation, competence, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4171	National MP Tomislav Nikolic by the Rules of Procedure, and then I will set a lunch break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4172	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. We are truly obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. What dignity is and what is the National Assembly, the chairmanship of the G17 Plus, helps him to work from CESID. Is that the will of the citizens? Is that the voter's will? Was that the voter's will? It's not. The gentleman who represented himself as an NGO has formed an opinion of the voters for three or four years, suddenly appearing as someone the ruling majority in this assembly chooses to be responsible in the National Assembly. We want to expose that farce to the voters of Serbia. So anyone who's in an NGO belongs to the yellows or to someone who's partly yellow. This one was presented as an NGO that cares about elections, democracy, regulation of elections, forecasts election results, follows, and suddenly after the elections appears in the role of someone elected by the Democratic Party's MPs in office. Now, I'm telling you, we're going to be obstructing the agenda of this session until you change the deputy secretary sitting next to you or until the elected secretary arrives to lead this session. It is our right, and you think about what you are doing with the voters in Serbia and what you are turning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you are openly and clearly showing what they are for you so-called. NGOs. Because it's your service, your stepdaughters, those who do dirty work for you. So we'll point you to all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure today, until the moment until the session enters its normal course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4173	They repeat that the deputy secretary has been legally elected here at the Assembly. I'm setting a break of one hour. We're continuing work at 14.40. [[After breaks – 14,50]] We're continuing our work. He has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4175	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it is necessary for the public to say that we are late at the beginning of the afternoon session of 10 minutes because the officials of the Assembly in the building could not find Minister Milan Markovic. They finally found him, here he is, and now we can talk about the bill on amendments to the Civil Service Act. Mr. Milan Markovic, Ministers, not President, but Ministers, I must tell you that the minister's chair has corrupted you a lot. While you were a national MP, you had a little bit more respect for both the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly, and as you entered the ministerial office, I think you are a recordr among ministers, otherwise known, from the Prime Minister to further, by violation of the constitution and the law. You've been in violation of the Constitution since the first appearance to this day. First of all, you illegally declared Bulevar AVNOJ the Boulevard of Zoran Djindjic. You couldn't have done it in accordance with the law. Furthermore, Ministers, threaten Serbian citizens that the Law on Local Elections will be put on the agenda of the Serbian government only at the end of October. So I ask you, if you are in accordance with Article 3. Constitutional law, that is, if we are under obligation to hold these local elections by the end of this year, then I am really asking you and I wonder how it is possible, if you are announcing that you will only come up with a draft of the law to go before the government in late October. Are you deliberately obstructing it or not taking care of the deadlines? You have already heard that this bill is indeed contrary to both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. You had a smart and constructive proposal from Mr Tomislav Nikolic to withdraw this bill, so you wouldn't embarrass yourself. I also said in the afternoon, and here I am now saying, while you were an MP, I really had the impression that you weren't a bad lawyer. But many of you have corrupted the ministerial post, Mr. Markovic. You should devote a little more to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I know and I understand that you appreciate your president, but don't look up to him when it comes to the Constitution. He is one of the civil servants, I am talking about Boris Tadic, as we are talking about the Law on Civil Servants, which did not take an oath under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have a law on the President of the Republic yet, so no one knows what Boris Tadic's jurisdiction is anymore, no one's name, whose name he apologizes to. He's walking around in the white world. He acts mostly as a member of the DS, as I suppose the other parties and other Serbian citizens would not have accepted that shameful apology on Croatian television from a few days ago. You said, Mr. Minister, that this law, i.e. that the bill must be passed or should be passed, because if we don't pass this law of 380 officials, with no idea what functions this law is, it would be resolved. I really don't know why we, MPs, why the Assembly must shed tears over those 380 persons placed in the government and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because they are primarily party officials. I wish, Mr. Minister, you'd looked back at hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs, thanks to the devastating DOS policy from 2000 to today. You also mentioned that there are already people, these 380 people who perform these functions and these jobs, and only today do you propose a law on the basis of which a competition should be called, and then these people apply to that competition, and then be chosen, of course, according to your will. We stay out of it, and we can't get involved. You didn't answer, first of all as a lawyer, Mr. Minister - how do you think you can resolve this situation? Mrs. Hope Kolundji's amendment is certainly not possible and you know it well. How do you plan to resolve the situation, I don't know how many days it will be, if you respect the Rules of Procedure this law could only be passed the day after tomorrow, what will happen to those few days that are not covered by any regulation? What will be the status of these people? What will happen to the acts they eventually signed, because they are people who have certain powers in the ministries and the National Assembly. You asked one of my colleagues - what's the alternative. You're acting like some of your colleagues in the current government and the previous one, which is almost the same. I remind you, and you once found that interesting, when Velimir Ilic said, when it came to getting those colorful railway cars, did he, so Velija Ilic said - that we were so caught up in the Public Procurement Act, because it is such a bad law that he should be changed anyway. Well, then you have a colleague of yours from the former government who publicly said that the government had to pass a temporary funding regulation under some law that was long ago out of force, according to some old law. Now you haven't answered the question that we've been asking you all day -- what about these five or six days of how much it's going to be about a vacuum that's not covered by any law. What does that mean? That means, Mr. Milan Markovic, that you and your government don't need laws at all, because if you can do six days without the law, then you can do 66. If one of your colleagues can behave against the provisions of the law because it is estimated that the law is not good, then such a minister and such a government need neither bad nor good law. I hope you agree with these findings. We did not vote you, not you, because you did not vote, the truth, for the Law on civil servants, because in 2006 and you were a MP, but in the DS group, which were MPs only at the register, not in this assembly, we also warned the congregation majority at that time that the Law on civil servants was a bad law, that it would be inapplicable, that it would be impossible to comply with the deadlines set by that law. Here, and I don't know how many times so far, what we once put as an amendment, happens to be found in the Assembly as a bill on amendments and additions to some law. Why is this law still bad? Because the Civil Service Act only took care of, I'd say, the high-ranking state officials, whose jobs you call "the positions". Then you tried to caricate something that Mr. Krasic was very argumentative here, so you said it was impossible for someone to sit in the same office and do the same job with someone else and have different salaries. I remind you, under this law, it is possible for your driver, Mr. Markovic, to have a salary of 16,000 dinars and you as minister of 160,000 dinars. That's because, say, the drivers had a salary before this bill of 22,000 dinars and instead of getting paid, this bill reduced their salary from 22,000 to 16,000 dinars. It's not just about drivers. That's the case with everyone you've legally called under the law. You're trying to establish some kind of European standards, and you don't think you're going to meet such miracles anywhere in Europe. All the things everyone smartly baptize and give up, you accept the triggers, you try to apply it in the state of Serbia. Today in the Assembly, we have several DS and DSS officials who are in high positions who have a higher salary, much higher than the Secretary of the Assembly. That doesn't make sense, from the secretary who's the boss of all of them. Under this law, it's possible. So this is such a bad law, it's so bad that it's horrible. Under this law, you have been employed by state authorities, in ministries, in the Assembly, in the Government, brought to a begging stick. You cut people's salaries, people who have finished high school, you cut their salaries by 6,000 to 8,000 dinars under the law. That's inadmissible. We told you, when it came to this law, that you shouldn't do it, that that's exactly what will happen, and that's when the government's representative claimed to us that we were talking nonsense and that it was impossible, that this law would say that, so there was something calculating us so smart. Of course, the first billing list and the first paycheck proved that we were right, as we were always right. Why can't this law be passed? Because its application, Mr. Milan Markovic, represents the Constitution's forbidden retroactiveness. Constitutionally forbidden. This then reminds me, and I remind the public of Serbia, at the time of the famous "Sabbe" action, when she was yours, I called her "Biserka" Brkic, and her name is Sonja Brkic – and Biserka, by the pearls she spoke to in public like this, was the lady who was the Supreme Court president, elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it was an emergency and when everything was secretly working in this country – that's when Sonja Brkic said in one show that she knew that the retroactivity of the Constitution was banned, but it was simply decided. Now I'm asking you, since I'm sure you know that the retroactivity of the Constitution is forbidden, that this bill cannot be filed under those possible exceptions that the Constitution provides, then I ask you, Mr. Milan Markovic, who has decided, who has said it and whose wishes we now have to fulfill here. Are we passing this law to ensure that, in our positions, the safe wife of Minister Milosavljević, Minister Gilas, Minister Dinkic, former Deputy Prime Minister of Labus, and so on? Do these ladies have to force the MPs to break the Constitution and break the laws? Mr. Markovic, I really didn't expect that from you. I hope what we're saying today will shed light on the whole situation and the MPs who might have been willing to vote for this. When you get changes to the law, three members, he says, in the Law on Civil Servants in Article 45, paragraph 1 of the word "Serbia and Montenegro" is replaced by the words "Serbia". In Article 180, that's the second position, "July 1st, 2007. is replaced by "1 May 2008." The law goes into effect the next day of publication and like this, the layman would say, which, if we didn't vote, are some formal amendments to three members of the law. And this isn't formal, this is very important. Just by illegal, unconstitutional extension of this deadline, you want what you've been saying here in the afternoon, that you're convinced that you're going to contribute to the formation of a nonpartisan state, etc., and you're just building up a party state here. You will, and that's why this basic law provides for all these functions to last for five years. You have completely missed this deadline on July 1st to have even more time after that next deadline that you have provided for this law, which is 1 May 2008, so until then, all of your current officials will be what they are, and then there, if you are still in power, you will call a competition and then you will select all these people for a five-year period, and then some new government will suffer for Mrs. Gilas, Mrs. Milosavljevic, Dinkić, etc. Well, of course not. You can pass this law, unfortunately, we still don't have a constitutional court, so we have no one to address, or we will address an institution called the Constitutional Court, but we have no judges, we have no constitutional court. You, Mr. Markovic, and the complete government of Vojislav Kostunica, I see you agree very well here, use this time until there is no constitutional court to propose to the Assembly anything that is unconstitutional, anything that is illegal. The congregational majority must somehow be able to conclude that you are returning people from the official path, to skip one day without any explanation, etc., because you have a very strong congregational majority. However, you use the MPs, which I warn you, not to participate in the dirty affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that MPs, if not the Government, are tasked with respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, respecting the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Because we are the ones who need to control the government, we are you, Mr. Markovic, who can tell you all of this, and you cannot, as you did in the afternoon part of this session, this is for the public, to hold a political class to the MPs. For that, you use the party stands, I don't mind, but you can answer only specific questions to the MPs. Therefore, the MPs of the SRS, you've heard already, will not vote for this law. The main reason is that SRS MPs are never in their lives and will never violate the Constitution, break laws, will not vote in favour of constitutional proposals, that is, laws and never would the assembly majority of the SRS allow any government they support, and of course we can't even support a government that would propose anti-constitutional laws. Because it is normal that after the next elections, the assembly majority of the SRS will support the SRS government, which will work both constitutionally and legally and in the interests of all citizens, not like you, Mr Markovic, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in the interest of five wives of five ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4176	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica. Mr. Krasic, I really want to be flexible, but you have to be constructive, too, the replica refers to time around 13.15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4177	Mr. Albianic, it's not my fault that you've called off the National Assembly session. If you've broken up, it's going on where the interruption came from, I guess that's clear. Mr. Markovic, for the sake of the public, just to show how DS does it when there's no argument. The State Officials Act was declared by your president, DS, as president of the Republic on 16 September 2005, meaning not in 2006 but in 2005. Furthermore, Mr Markovic, article 171, says, "The law is in force: this law enters into force on July 1st 2006," means nine months later, with several members entering into force within eight days of the day of publication of the law. These few members do not include your favorite member 179. Furthermore, Article 190: "On the day of entry into force of this law, the labour relationship in the state authorities ceases to apply the Labour Relations Act in the state bodies". There are two other laws, or several other members of the law regarding the same matter. Why am I telling you this? You're probably a lecturer at a security school and you teach terrorism, but this has nothing to do with terrorism. Terrorism is what you did on October 5th. Now let me explain to you the purpose of Article 2 190.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4178	Please, Mr. Krasic, the notions that they differ, what terrorism is, and what this is October 5th, that's different.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4179	I don't know what I did wrong. Tell me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4180	October 5th and terrorism, you made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4181	No, no, October 5th is a kind of terrorism, and Mr. Markovic is training how to fight terrorism college students in this bald Dragisic. I know that. That's what you wrote in your biography. Article 179, paragraph 2, says: "If a person or a designated person is ordered to cease his duty before a civil servant is placed in a position (thinking prior to the position of a civil servant in accordance with the competition), the new position is (again) temporary'. Why is it temporary? Because Article 180 in paragraph 2 says, "The first of July 2007 has ceased their duty." So, July 1st -- two days ago. We don't have any of these assistant ministers anymore, there can only be someone who's been elected to the competition. That's 22. So it's still 380 empty, now you don't have anyone. Why didn't you jump across the street to Tadic? So if you wanted to change the law, why didn't you propose February, March, April, May, June? You see, we're in July, July 3rd. You're here to show your relationship with the law. Your relationship to the law is -- the law is for the opposition, not for the power. Then Mr. Markovic comes out and says here - I didn't realize things. Here, I read all this nicely so that every citizen in Serbia would understand. You didn't realize anything, you didn't listen to me, you didn't understand anything? Mr. Albianic, I'm going to have to take the opportunity to explain it to him again, since you can see he doesn't understand anything. This has nothing to do with terrorism, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4182	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. National MP Rajko Baralic has a word, then a National MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4183	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Minister, Mr. Shami, allow me to welcome Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it wasn't Mr. Krasic that was terrorism, it was interventionism. So they intervened with foreign intelligence, and Tim Marshall wrote a book about it. Well, it's simple to know what this is all about. You, Mr. Minister, have been deceived by coalition partners. So Mr. Loncar represented this law by believing that by adopting it, any position of DS would be completely disabled if he independently exercised power to change state officials and tenants when it happened. They had no idea that you would be the Minister of State and Local Self-Government and that you now have to correct their "guilty Drina". But, well, it's now this coalition capacity, cohabitation, coalition, etc. The law was essentially intended to prevent any change of government from changing important civil servants, tenants, officials, etc. Only there is a small problem, one who assumes responsibility for the exercise of power he shows that responsibility, among other things, and by putting personal solutions in certain important state institutions, bodies and institutions to those people in whom he has the most trust, which implies that they are previously sufficiently trained and professional. That thing's completely clean. If it works that way, then a civil servant could be a hundred years old and it's not disputed. There are such examples, let's say that the editor-in-chief of the most important Socialist list in France is a right-wing man, but he is, unfortunately, only an exception, not a rule. There are two things going on here: those for whom the competition was held cannot be selected, and on the other hand they must remain or some who have not even applied will not be placed; it is simply unprincipled. What I'm trying to say is that it's completely responsible and I understand that, and it fits the principle that I listed here as the first. So it's not possible for someone to exercise power, at least at this point in Serbia, without not naming it, not setting it up, not choosing the people they trust most. That's all any government needs to have the strength to say -- I want to exercise power, citizens of Serbia, so that all these people who will be assistants, state secretaries, will be the people we trust most. And if things don't go right, then you know who's responsible for their ineffectiveness, possibly illegal behavior. There's nothing here that's new. So, when we passed the law, we talked to you about this, and if someone wanted to look at those books, which I call readings, our stenographic notes, there's a sentence that I said and then said -- that if any government doesn't answer it, they'd find an appropriate explanation to adopt, bring a new legal tool that's going to bring what's already written in the law to derogate in a certain way and give themselves space to set up new people. That's what's happening right now and, well, just, just please all of you, from the authorities, don't make us not understand it, it's just like that, and nothing is disputed. It's done in municipal congregations, it's done in some other places, it's done by the boss when he buys a new bank, he says -- the manager is this, the pi-ar is this, because I trust that they do that job. A few colleagues here talked about how many new tenants there are. From January 21st 2001 to June 30th 2006, the state of Serbia hired 26.730 new people. It's so many new systematic jobs, and from that date to today several thousand more. These are the data available to the SPS, the first to deliver to us, at our request, Mr Dinkic, when he was Minister of Finance. And if you look closely at the budgets from 2001 to this year you'll see that the number of people who receive salaries from the budget increases annually by several tens of thousands and sometimes by several hundred. That's, of course, true and it doesn't need to be settled, but we need to know, they said some others here today, so 250,000 people in Serbia are getting paid from the budget today. Practically, 260 thousand people, or 258 thousand people, are also these state-run deputies, officials and assistant secretaries. What pisses me off is that one ministry has ten secretaries, which they call state secretaries, which makes people confused. The Secretary of State is something I didn't agree with even when the law was written and adopted. There are better and more precise solutions, i.e. the formulation of this term. This way we don't know exactly, there are now ministers who have six-seven secretary of state. Please, it's inadmissible, it's a complete inflation of that calling. So he needs to do one job and he needs to be the closest minister associate and be responsible for all that. The ministry has been laid wide, some have, as you can see, a huge number of civil servants, without any need. That's what's not good, and it's not a bad concept. Otherwise, this law existed in 1934, King Alexander prescribed so-called. French model. Kidrich and Cardellj had it here as paid classes until 1959. You didn't make anything up. This whole thing exists. If you take some experience in other countries, it also exists. I agree that a calling should be so paid that it's a rank, etc. It's not a good thing they don't have the same pay for the people and the ones elected by the government. I do not advocate the increase in wages to those chosen by the people, but to cut wages to those elected by the Government. That would be fair. So that those elected by the National Assembly have one dinar less than the people's messengers, and not that, as it is now and as it is every day in the newspaper, several tenths, fifty, sixty, seventy thousand dinars have a higher salary of a civil servant than a national messenger. That's not normal. Whoever thinks it's normal, get him to start a political party, join a party, get him on the list, find the campaign money, get him to trust the citizens, support the competition in his party, and let him try. It's the opposite of everything that exists everywhere in the world. So, that the citizens of Serbia don't understand what I stand for. I advocate that all state officials, except for the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, pay is reduced below the level of 75,000 dinars, the parliamentary salary is so high, and everyone else should have less. Otherwise, let them do so in private companies and elsewhere, because it is, above all, not normal and not fair. This story of experts coming there is mostly true, but as we can see, it's not. Finally, Mr. Minister, yesterday I contacted officially, there is only one municipality in Serbia today that has not adopted the budget. That's a big problem. That's 50,000 inhabitants. I ask that what your associates promised yesterday honor. They're not what we agreed yesterday. Whatever the government is and whoever is there is the government, any possibility of funding any activity in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac has been suspended since yesterday. If they're not good, hang them, shoot them, I don't know what to do to them, but it's not possible for 50,000 citizens to be a living political lab for a year. It has to be cut once. So, there are several important reasons why I'm being handled to say this. I'm under the impression that things aren't set up there in principle. So, most kindly, I ask that whoever took that commitment yesterday realizes that obligation, so if he can't, let's see what goes on, because no one should be held hostage by any political will. I have to say, things are very complicated out there. The municipality of Gornji Milanovac served for more than 50 years as an example in Serbia, and by its economy, both by its natural potential and by each other. So, most kindly, I'm asking for it to be regulated. If she can't, we'll be looking for political solutions, and she'll be very radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4184	National MP Zoran Krasic, a replica of Mr Baralic's exposure. I would like to inform you that the SPS is no longer available time, but it has a representative of the parliamentary group for 10 minutes, on the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4185	Mr. Baralic, you didn't understand me very well. Terrorism is every act of violence aimed at dissuading the competent state authorities and thus manifesting itself, in addition to those harmful consequences, etc., disrespect for one legal order. According to all the criteria, an act of terrorism took place on October 5th. Just to remind you, because of the election for the president of Yugoslavia, the Federal Assembly building was burned, and after a few days it was threatened here at the National Assembly that the government of the Republic of Serbia must resign. So it wasn't a republican election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4186	Mr. Krasic, no more Yugoslavia. That was seven years ago. Let's not go back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4187	No, no, Mr. Albianic, facing that past is inevitable. We have to face that past. There's no one who can set fire to the Assembly, so he can't say it was democratic, and then after a few years, when the truth comes out, when everything comes out, you hear it now, it's beautiful to listen to Chad, Beba, Mihajlovic, the truth comes out, it just can't be stopped, it's a stream, so let's say -- it doesn't work, it's out of date, it was seven years ago. Seven years ago, some people suffered so much because of those who burned down the Federal Assembly building. However, some were very uncomfortable when you were blowing balloons, too, I must remind you. We can't say, "Pull dots don't work now." Gentlemen, my children have been crying about you for six months coming from school every day. Why? For what? For seven years, you've been running some kind of criminal procedure, hasn't moved since the beginning. You presented me as a criminal, so you found me a denominator, so you represented him as someone and something. Now I have to say, "Play no dots." I guess that's when the law was applied. I guess today's gonna have to apply the law. So it was a classic act of terrorism inspired by abroad, funded from abroad. You can see how abroad is now changing in the rushes of the furniture that needs to implement the MI6 policy. Sometimes it was unimaginable for Cesid to enter the structures of the government. It used to be unthinkable for someone in the NGO to be a civil servant. Today they're going, so they've been educated, they've been prepared, they've come to state positions, now Serbia has to finance those who have destroyed it, who have trampled on it. And I'm supposed to keep my mouth shut about it? No, there won't be any silence. I'll just remind you. I will remind you and the citizens of Serbia what you have done, how you have come, why you have come, so that we will not be surprised what the consequences are today. You saw, 20 and a few thousand people hired. Who? Uncle? No aunts, you know who they hired. They've hired those who need to destroy the state structure. I will also report to you a little later after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss the position of 2 Members 179 and Article 180.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4188	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4189	Ladies and gentlemen, when he compares himself and looks at when the law was passed recently, i.e. These provisions, whose amendments and additions are required, show that it has not been or has only been a year. That's a big problem. When laws are passed, they should have, first of all, their quality in content and scope. On the other hand, these laws should be applicable, but for a long period of time. We have no letters to explain, nor in the proposal, since our country wants to go to the European Union, and this European Union brings us nothing. He's just saying, let's go join that European Union and we want to pass laws because they recommend and ask us to. But, ladies and gentlemen, in parallel law, we don't have a single country that makes 280 laws in a year or two. I repeat, the Babylonian ruler Hamurabi has passed the Code, in that code Hamurabi has regulated both criminal and civil and procedural law in 282 members. But it was a class code, a code that was applied differently when it came to criminal sanctions. In the ruling class, those of the subordinated class have been punished differently. As far as this law is concerned, the ink has not yet dried, so to speak, from the legislator's signatories that the Law on civil servants has been passed, but we are looking for changes and additions. Ladies and gentlemen, in an explanation of individual solutions on page 2 of paragraph 3 of the proposal, the legislator - by proposing a move of deadlines, provides effective implementation of the procedure for setting up positions in ministries, administration bodies, as part of ministries, special organisational units, government services and the Republic of Public Defence and prevents the crisis and stasis in their work. Is there anything real here? There isn't. In Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, I hold it in my hands, you have a provision of article 21 that says - everyone has the right to equal protection, before the Constitution and the law all are equal. I ask the proposer a question - if one worker in one company in Serbia stops working on any legal basis, whether the worker will be able to do it tomorrow or after a few days, or 10 days, with the same employer, whether it is a public enterprise, a state-owned company, or that it is a private enterprise, to establish a working relationship in this way as the proposer manages this proposal. Imagine, these tenants, as the MPs of the SRS have said, which is how you defined them, and there are about 200 of them, why the law must be passed for them, but why then a year is determined. What it takes you for a year to find the staff, to find the person or your party colleague, or a member of a party, to appoint him as deputy minister, to appoint as assistant ministers, to appoint directors of directors of directors and administrations, to appoint your advisers of five-six types, secretaries of the government's authority, what it takes for you to lose this much time without solving or passing laws that have priority. I'm asking the motionor, how many state secretarys do we have, how many assistants do we have in which ministry, how many secretaries, how many advisors, and how many referents do we have? This burdens the Republic of Serbia's budget much. And I'm asking a question, and I'm looking for an answer -- how many secretaries do we have for these executives, the tenants, how many personal drivers, how many cars and drivers, and how much is their representation individually as the beneficiary of the budget? Those questions should be answered, because that's what Serbian citizens are asking for, because they pay taxes, and from the tax giving of our citizens, whose skin is yelling, those rats who are sitting there and wise are just being paid. (President: Mr. Jojić, I ask you to take care of the terminology and the dictionary, with respect that we address the MPs of the people. Yes, read about rat channels, so you'll see, I didn't insult anyone here. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Jojic.) ) Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the application of the Law on civil servants, all employees working, says, in the information sector, the administrative sector, the material and financial and accounting sectors should be civil servants. In Article 2(3), I state that only the accompanying technical staff are substitutes. Degradation has been carried out in the sense that the work carried out by the officials is also carried out by the tenants. There is no possibility of advances in service, ladies and gentlemen, the inability to raise wages to those with the lowest incomes; legal uncertainty, the lessor makes a contract to work with the employer, unlike an employee who signs a solution to a permanent working relationship. In the Service of the National Assembly, there are sectors, where part of the staff is called officials, and part of the tenants, although workers in such sectors fall under the law into civil servants. I don't know what's new here, I don't know what's going to be effective here, how it's possible that 50, 60, 70 years in our legal-political system and in our legislative body are officials, let's call them workers or referents, and they had equal rights. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not allowed in one office for two tables with two chairs to hold two categories of workers, or employees in one state body. On the one hand, there's a tenant, and on the other hand there's a civil servant. But if they were to do different jobs, and they weren't to do jobs that are in the sole jurisdiction of the legislative authority, if they were dealings of some other division, we could talk about it, but if they do state affairs and one and the other have to have the same status and the same rights under the Constitution. Otherwise, there is discrimination. Furthermore, Article 5 of the current law states - neutrality. A civil servant is required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations under the rules of the profession, impartially, politically neutrally. Please, gentlemen of the ruling majority, explain to the citizens of Serbia that what has been pointed out as an inconclusive fact, in the administration employed 26,000 from 2001 to today. Is this about red tape inflation? In my deep judgment, it's about great inflation and bureaucracy takes the initiative. Let's see if in some other industries, other than management, workers are so quickly employed, in industry and in production plants. Let's see what the government has done, how many factories it's opened since 2001 to this day, how many employees are employed in production, and from production, it fills the budget so that the state can function, and the defence, and security, and the judiciary and other authorities of the administration. So, the taxpayers' money comes into that leather purse, but what's most catastrophic for this and the previous government since 2005, there's no production. What's being produced? There is no production, but the production capacity that our workers have created for decades is sold, and that's how you survive, you sell the property, and you want to preserve social peace. There's nothing without production. That's why I'm surprised that this government was ready, as well as the previous governments, to stimulate bureaucracy in this way, and to destroy production. Take agriculture; agricultural land today is bought by tycoons, bought by thousands of hectares, but according to the SRS in the first round, they must, when given agricultural land, first and foremost compete with individual producers in all Serbia's cities, so if the remaining land that was not leased in the long term is offered to tycoons and let them pay, but a high price. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't have a Constitutional Court. We speak for free in this assembly, free of SRS, and some think that we should form a Constitutional Court. In Article 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 2, is normised that the Constitutional Court must be elected in the second session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. To whom should we now refer the initiative for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of any law, including this law in question? We have no one. Is this an unconstitutional monarchy? Without the Constitution, there's no order. No state is without a constitution, except for Serbia today, in Europe. We have a constitution, but we don't have a Constitutional Court. We have constitutional law, but we don't have a Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality and legality of certain acts. When it comes to this matter and changing the Law on Civil Servants, I am surprised that the legislator does not foresee the possibility of why they are not the same rights in the provinces and local self-government unlike this law. There, in the provinces and municipalities at local level, the Law on Public Servants, however, is not applicable to the area of AP or municipalities. Now we have to work to bring these laws into line. It should be agreed that citizens of the Republic of Serbia would have the same rights in all municipalities, the same rights in the provinces. What's happening to us, there's Minister Markovic, on the local level? See what happens at the local level, what decisions are made and how illegal they are, and how much abuse of the official position is and how many violations of the law are there. There's no FAP with a single trailer from a municipality that can't get out as many violations of the law and certain regulations. That's where the effort needs to be made, that's where the inspection needs to be done, that's where the budget inspection needs to come in and see how the taxpayers' funds are spent. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a week ago was a disaster in Panchev, environmental pollution in the southern industrial zone, media only recorded it one day, but the consequences remain large and the government of the Republic of Serbia is not advertised what it did and what measures it has taken to determine who committed the crime in the Panchevo oil refinery and to inform the public whether the person was arrested, you are responsible of course in that company, and whether a criminal procedure has been initiated or not. On the other hand, why is the government of the Republic of Serbia silent, not providing material resources for the recovery and revitalisation of the industrial zone of the Refinery, Petrochemia and Azotara in Pancheva? The estimated value of Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus, a few years ago, is that for the damage to be removed, to repair factories and to revitalise plants, it takes 360m euros. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? From that municipality, from the Panchevo municipality, it yells skin, because it's public enterprises and extracts profits. I repeat, only in Petrochemia, the Panchemian industry, exported 212m euros in goods in 2006. What's left of the Pancheva municipality? The citizens of Pancheva municipality just need to stay and take the sticks and not let anyone enter the factory, nor the Prime Minister, nor the president of the state, until the accounts are settled and the industry is fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4190	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that we will, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to extend the work after 18.00 hours, with the conclusion of a principle debate on this agenda point. It's expected to be 18.00 hours ago, but it's not logical to leave one speaker for tomorrow. So we have five other MPs reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise violation of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am sorry that the President of Parliament is not here, because I am asking him for the necessary notice. Since during the afternoon debate, parliament speaker said he could not answer the questions to which ministers or officials at the head of some other republican institutions should answer, but here are two questions to which I ask an explanation and a notice from the president of the National Assembly. One thing about what we're saying over and over again, and that's the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. I suppose the MPs should be informed by the President of the National Assembly when a choice of judges of the Constitutional Court will be made from the National Assembly quota. Let's ignore the part about the list to be proposed by the President of the Republic. I guess the elected representatives deserve not to read about it from the papers. Apparently, the president of the Republic proposed a list of candidates to elect the Constitutional Court judges. To absorb it, what about the list of candidates of the National Assembly? Will that explain to us the president of the National Assembly? Will one country that claims to be a state, along with the rule of law, get when the constitutional court? This is a unique case in the world. Not that we don't have a constitutional court, but we're not even trying to make it form. That's one question for Mr. Dulic, and I remind him of article 9. Constitutional law. I also remind him of Article 5. Constitutional law - when will the governor of the NBS be elected? We have a Cossack governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4192	Mr. Batic, please really treat the governor of the National Bank of Serbia with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4193	With great respect, because I didn't say he was a criminal, which is much more like it. Everything that's against the constitution, it's a Cossack, it's a hidduk, it's a jump, it's illegal. That's the governor of the NBS, who should have been elected here by the end of the first regular session. That should be answered by the President of the National Assembly. Just one correction from Mr. Andric's morning exposure. The mandate of the special prosecutor for organised crime runs until July 23rd. We don't have a state prosecutor, we don't have a district attorney in Belgrade, and what about the special prosecutor for organised crime? Or isn't that gonna matter? What matters is what he says to the public, who will choose him. Since we don't have a state prosecutor, one small remark finally to the respected Minister Markovic. I'm surprised, Mr. Markovic, that you've been so easy this morning, you've started to explain the law. It must be a little more respectful for the MPs, because if I don't expect it from some ministers, I expect it from you. You said one more thing, besides that explanation of why you were late, it happens to everyone, although it's not an adequate explanation. You said, unfortunately, the law wasn't passed in parliament a month ago. Unfortunately for whom? Your grief? Do you feel sorry for Balinovci? You didn't explain it to us, Mr. Markovic. Did you vote for Balinian, too? Did you vote Dean Michael? You know what I mean. Are you the majority in the government? I suppose so, but don't miss the government and the mistakes of the ruling coalition to transfer to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4194	The People's Messenger Gojko Radic has the word. He's not here. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4195	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, representative of the government, as we can see, are no longer Mr. Zoran Balinovac. I think the minister could have said at the beginning of his presentation what happened to Mr. Balinovac, whether he was sick, whether he was on vacation, whether he went on a trip to Kinshas or something else happened to him. So someone managed to force the government of the Republic of Serbia, and someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia was looking forward to changing the representatives of the proposings. It is now the Minister of State Administration, Mr Milan Markovic. In a previous attempt to argue on this agenda, when there was a major violation of the constitutional law provision, we listened to former DOS members throw trees and stones at each other. We heard when someone was bad, he was at Kostunica's, again others say someone else was bad, he was at Djindjic's, then someone was at Perisic's, someone was at Covic's, and they all came together after 5 October to power and we know how it was. In the end, Mr. Balinovac turned out to be collateral damage to settle the vanity of former and current DOS members. According to this proposal, amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, this government is not the priority problems of Kosovo and Metohija, nor of unemployment, nor of war and military people with disabilities, nor of human rights violations, for example, of young men who have been jailed for post-trapping posters, later released. Putting this point on the agenda is the need to meet the appetites of all parties that make up this ruling coalition, but worse still, the demands that come from those NGOs who have publicly settled with individual political parties and are now seeking part of their prize. By July 1st, a large number of jobs were to be completed by setting up new civil servants, so you were forced to amend the deadlines set by the original law, passed during the previous National Assembly term. In the light of the proposal for this law, the Proposer calls for the deadline required for the procedure for implementing public competitions for positions, given that on 1 July 2007, the law enforcement duty ceases to be imposed on all persons who have been laid down under earlier regulations. We've been going through all this lately at the last minute. That's how it happened with the government, and that's how it is now in this case. The deadline expired on Sunday, so the train passed, which is what the people say, but who's to blame for not having time. It is Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica's fault. If they had formed a government immediately after the constitution of the National Assembly, on February 14th, this deadline would have been respected, and Serbian citizens would have been spared daily news and a contribution to negotiations that lasted for three months. It happened that in the finale of the negotiations, they insulted each other, called each other traitors, criminals, mentioned hooligans, pulled ears, heads without brains, etc. When the dust came down again, the DOS came back together, though, in a defiled edition. So, not being formed by the government four months ago, but on May 15th, in the film finale, you are now forced to extend the shift of deadlines by 10 months. The chaos that threatens to arise again is the merit of the former and the present government. You talk about deadlines all the time, and you forget about another deadline, the time that passes quickly, and the Assembly is waiting, and so is the Government. It's about Kosovo and Metohija. This is a task standing before us by the Members and for which there must be no deadline. The officers are where they are, they're not touched by Solana, they're not touched by Bush, they're not touched by Cheku. Kosovo and Metohija must defend and preserve themselves, and here is what we are discussing today. Unfortunately, this break of 10 months, which you have provided for this legal solution, will be used to meet your wishes without haste, and not only the political parties of the ruling coalition, but you will begin to fulfill your wishes and perhaps your obligations to different NGOs and associations. As our president of the Assembly said on the day he took office in his mini-expose, he will try to install people into some positions. It's not about regular employees, it's about those whose functions will be very important in the state apparatus. Here's what this installation looks like in action. The first is "installed" Mr. Milos Todorovic. He's adhering to Cesid's right as deputy secretary of the assembly. You could have appointed someone from another NGO, if you already loved these NGOs so much. Why didn't you ask for a candidate, say, from the NGO Dvori, or from the organization "1389", "Cola of Serbian Sisters", but they're not from your story. In fact, it's all about putting Cesid aside one political option. You know for Cesid yourself when they start guessing like some people who say, "grandmother Wang," just 10 minutes after the polls are closed. In his biography, Parliament President himself boasted that he had struck a course that was actively organised and conducted in Serbia by Sonja Licht, again an NGO. Now this period of 10 months will be used by all of them, and Sonja Licht, and Vucho, and Biserko, and Kandićka, to gossip about which furniture in the state administration, because they have obvious merits.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4196	Please, NGOs have nothing to do with the tenants. The government is setting up its officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4197	They do, although for their merits, the Serbian people have a very nice word, which is the betrayal of the country. Well, it's only when you get those so-called. Zagreb intellectuals from the circle of two, then forums, then women in black, and that's what the state administration will look like if this government lasts. Remember only the inscriptions in the daily "Justice" a few weeks ago, when Serbian Carla del Ponte, believe it or not, ran for BIE chief Goran Svilanovic, therefore, witnessed a promoter of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. Since we know how strong our current authorities are and consistent in defending Serbian national interests, let's say in Ohio, then this crazy idea of Carla del Ponte will not be possible. In the end, here it is today July 3rd, and that period of July 1st passed. What happened? Is it a failed state? It's not. It's the Fourth of July tomorrow. Most of you from the ruling parties may also celebrate at the admission to the American Embassy. When you go to the American ambassador who tells you through the translator cold and insensitively - we'll take Kosovo and Metohija - ask yourself how much you're worth that moment. In the end, I would only wish Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija much freedom, Vojislav Seselj I would wish to win the Hague, and General Mladic would wish for a peaceful dream and a safe mountain path.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4198	The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and then a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4199	I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Goos said, "from the end of the plate" to begin, so that finally my left-hand side of the hall will realize that we've figured out what this is all about. The elemental disaster on October 5th, called DOS, floods Serbia, and when the water retreats, all that dirt crawls up the coast, gets hold of state leverage, leverage power, and there is no happiness for Serbia from now on. Of course, you were then showing some that you brought from the white world to experts, and then I was baptized in a society of your presidents and that government - Ali Baba and 40 experts. By the system that doesn't leave around your hands, because you've long been eager by the authorities, corrupt, and then when you've sat down with your appetites, you've had to start with those who pushed you towards the coast to valorize your work. Then the first set-up begins, given that there's a term here called "possessors." They set up a man who is not a citizen of Serbia for a vice governor, and then soon for a governor, otherwise a man who understands himself in finance. Only a man who understands finance can make a transaction like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4200	Mr. Markovic, let me inform you he is a Serbian citizen, if you didn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4201	Mr. Albianic, I'm making an introduction for you to understand. Because only a man who understands finance can buy a villa like that for 380,000 euros. Let's start with the word "principal." The editor means to place someone in the workplace, install someone's function, install someone's job. And the word "principal" was derived from those words. So, to place you in jobs, to state functions, to the state's riding people who put you in deep debt those years. So then the furniture started, after you filled out the ministries, and the halls had tables in the ministries, then you formed agencies. The Serbian Radical Party has criticised the formation of these agencies for several years, so the tobacco agency, then the Sugar Agency, then the bread, then the water, whatever you thought of, you made agencies. You've created an agency to form agencies. Of course it's an agency per agency, 40 per 50 tenants. Anyway, you housed everything they wore or intended to carry your membership card. Many wore it even though they were disgusted by it. So you set up in flight control of a man named Nikola Stankov, whose only qualification was the husband, more specifically, the secretary's husband from the cabinet of late Prime Minister Djindjic. I have no intention of complaining to him. I object to those who framed Stankov Nikola because his wife is there. Today's flight control represents an incredible mayday for a robbery. Within six months, they spent twice a million dollars buying luxury cars. They were building radars and where they were supposed to and where they weren't supposed to. They built a radar on the Kopalnik, and then they realized that KFOR wouldn't let them use it. The same Nikola Stankov, in view of the fact, is a Serbian citizen, but is not a Serb, to help the native end of the Rili mountain try to make, out of the Serb couples, a pair of the Serbian state's radar. Of course, it's stopped and thank God it's stopped. Once the state of Yugoslavia covered the entire sky with two radar systems. Today we have them, not counting the one finished and the one that's being made in Montenegro, we only have them in Serbia seven. Since you've subdued all those who could and wanted, possibly, to join your parties, you've naturally gone after NGOs. They need to be set up, because they should be called tenants. That's how we've got the trustees from the Cecs, then the Resisters from the Resistance. Yes, sir, from the Resistance, I remember you were banging in the pantry here, Prince Michael's street. Now they're setting them up, but they're officials, because the furniture is clerks and lower officials. Speaking of which, I'll remind you of just one thing. The other day you chose, we voted against that people's lawyer, the public's protector. You chose a certain Sasha Jankovic. I've got the paperwork, so I'll only read this first part. On April 1st, 93th in his apartment, so in Sasa Jankovic's apartment, his gun killed Predrag Gojkovic. A full investigation, full of inconsistencies and failures, eventually didn't come up with a major culprit. But there is something symptomatic here in this implementation solution; no, this is the Belgrade District Court's solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4202	Please, Mr. Markovic, let us not provide unverified information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4203	They're very well-checked. Well, don't you believe the District Court's solutions, Mr. Albianic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4204	I can't see the seal. Get us that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4205	I'll explain. I don't have time, I'm running out of time, I don't want to waste party time. I'll explain it to you later. You need to be explained a little longer. I just wanted to read one paragraph, so you'll see who this Sasa Jankovic really is. He says, "On traces of gunpowder particles, or nitrates on the paraffin gloves blamed, so he was one of the defendants, the expert also gave an acceptable explanation, given the nature of these particles... "and so on. And the expert at the end says "... Their presence can't be taken as evidence that the defendant at a critical moment had the gun in his hands. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you if you knew about this data from the biography of one who should be the protector of citizens and who should protect all of us, possibly tomorrow. Of course, he is only the patron of citizens, so the pyramid will spread throughout Serbia and then there will be furniture and furniture to the last municipality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4206	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and then a National MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Slobodan Jovanovic said in an article published in 1940 in the "Serbian Voice", the authority of the Serbian Cultural Club, that the laws, however good they were, were nothing more than one legal system, and what consequences a legal system will have in practice, it depends not only on it, but also on the specific political issues of the country in which the legal system is applied. The DOS gentlemen obviously have not heard of this wisdom by Slobodan Jovanovic. They thought it was enough to rewrite other people's laws and that, by doing so, they would be fulfilled so-called. European and world standards. When in the late XIX century his associates asked Nikola Pasic, who then became the first president of the Serbian government, Mr Pasic, says why don't you introduce English democracy, which is so popular in the world, and Pasic answered them, says how to introduce English democracy and where are my English. This has been how all DOS governments have been acting since 2000. They would like to be English, to prescribe English laws, and act like Turks of the Ottomans, to rule over lawlessness in Serbia, to rule in the country, to rule with red tape. Since 2000, all DOS governments have promised, among other things, a fundamental reform of the state administration. In late 2004, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica adopted a strategic document in the area of state administration reform, which is the State Administration Reform Strategy. This strategy has declared several basic principles on which the reform of the state administration should rest, such as the principle of decentralisation, depoliticalisation, professionalisation, rationalisation, etc. Unfortunately, unfortunately for DOS mania, practice shows everything contrary to what they have declared on the basis of political principles. As for the Law on Civil Servants, that is, on its application in practice, I would like to introduce Members of the People and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the exact data as it seemed in practice, noting that the data provided by the Government itself, or by its ministries. According to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, on 31 August 2001 in the republican authorities of the administration, so in ministries other than the Ministry of State, and special organisations and related institutions, such as the General Secretariat and the Government's Office and the Government's Joint Affairs Authority, 8,099 persons worked, and 171 appointed a person and 7,928 employees. Not three years later, on 31 March 2004, the state administration in the Republic of Serbia was increased by just over three times, the number of people working in the central state administration, without the MUP, was 27,238 people. If these data compare with the World Bank's figures on the number of employees in individual European countries between 1999 and 2001, it is concluded that the Serbian state administration has been pre-named, i.e. the number of persons working in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia above European averages. For example, the number of employees in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia is lower than in Ireland, Greece and Austria, but is therefore higher than in Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, which are themselves, with the exception of Finland, a country in transition. The humane strain of the Serbian state administration has its financial implications as well. Comparative data on the participation of employees and officials in the state administration in the Republic of Serbia and Central and Eastern European countries in the total volume of public spending are also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. During 2004, the Republic of Serbia recorded a higher participation of the profit fund in the total volume of public spending than in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. A higher percentage of the Republic of Serbia had only Greece, Croatia and Slovenia. What we've been seeing since the DOS since 2000 is that a large number of people are employed by the state administration, in various places in the state administration, without meeting the basic legal requirements. In that sense, the Ministry of Education and Sports case, in which, in addition to 400 people already working in the ministry after 2000, 200 more people were admitted, so that in early 2004, at the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, this ministry numbered a total of 600 officials. Something similar happened at the Justice Department. In January 2004, the number of employees increased by 20%. The inspections in certain ministries have shown that the state administration has been employed and those who have not passed a professional exam for work in the authorities of the state administration. Only in the Ministry of Education and Sports during 2004 have 122 such persons been discovered. This is, of course, just a fraction of the data that tells us about how DOS "reformed" the state administration. We heard today in the explanation of Mr Markovic that the government, because it became technical, could not implement the provisions of the Law on Civil Service, or to conduct public competitions, so that civil servants would be placed in their positions as of 1 July 2007. The law, however, was passed in September 2005 and came into force, except for a few provisions, as early as July 1st, 2006. So, if the government had the political will, if she wanted to, she could have implemented the Civil Service Act, called all public competitions, and that by 1 July 2007, we had government officials placed in positions, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Service Act. Of course, what's quite certain now is that we no longer have, except for those twenty people that the government has laid down in accordance with the Civil Service Act, civil servants who are properly appointed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Civil Service Act. As regards retroactiveness, retroactiveness as a legal institute in this case is out of the question, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 197(2), explicitly states that only certain provisions of the law can have a return fact if this requires general interest in the adoption of the law. In this case, there is no general interest in retroactively applying the provisions of the law. The general interest would mean, in the event that the law is not adopted, in order to have serious consequences for the lives and health of people, the security of the state, public order and peace would be at stake, etc. We have, however, heard from the minister that there are some 300 people who need to be put in place. The SRS believes that there will be no question of normal functioning of the state, that there will be no further threat to the security of citizens, the state order, constitutional order, etc. if those faces are not placed in position. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia bears political responsibility because it has violated the Law on civil servants and has not, in accordance with the provisions of the law, placed civil servants in office by July 1st 2007. No one's to blame for that. As for the SRS, it will not allow Serbia's parliament to be for the government of a crying salon, that ministers two days after the deadline has passed they come to the Serbian Parliament and say, well, what can we do, the deadlines have expired and let us retroactively apply the law. Maybe you can play with the congregation majority, as far as the SRS is concerned, we won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4208	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4209	So, after Mr. Martinovic, it is a certain impression that the snow fell and that in July wild animals showed their tracks. To return, in 2005, the law was passed, entered into force on 1 July 2006, until 1 July 2007, in the continuity of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, original, technical and this new one said - we are not interested in the Law on civil servants, we are not interested in those provisions. Why aren't we all interested? Because we have a congregation majority and they are able to provide the retroactiveness of even that law on changes and additions that have, say, only three members. The last member determines when this law enters into force, the second member returns retroactively backwards, applies the corresponding provisions of the basic text, and we return to the beginning of what Mr. Martinovic said, and I only slightly different in words, if you are so strong, if you are so strong, you could have done so in December this year. Why? Because the last member returns everything to July 1st, 2007. Why are we in this situation? We are in this situation because no material assumptions have been fulfilled that this law is being implemented in the way that Mr. Markovic initially mercifully told us. About the depoliticized state administration, where only the secretary of state shares fate with the minister and these advisers under the deed contract, who can even communicate with the minister via the internet and do not even have to enter the ministry. It is now evident that both the assistants and all those others who have this treatment of a civil servant are in a position of quite a political nature. If they weren't political figures, the competition would have ended long ago. I'll illustrate it to you in a very nice example. Someone's paying for that production network that's, well, you know, Europe, we're about to enter, and there's a variety of personalities coming out as leaders to convince us. That's how one lady convinced us about the depoliticized state administration through a single television contribution. The contribution was about like this: they asked the question of a few people who were put to the post of assistant minister, what they thought about it. They say -- we're professionals, we don't mind doing it for five years, the minister can change however he wants, but we're up to the bone professionals. Then they ask one assistant Justice Minister if he's a professional, he says, yes, I'm a great professional. Well, since DSS and the SRS can build a government, it was somewhere there in February, March that contribution, and he says -- well, then I wouldn't be able to stay in that ministry if the radical were a minister of justice. Why? So he says -- they are against European integration, and I am soul and body for European integration. Here you see on a very interesting case it has proved that in fact these assistant ministers only in the story of Mr. Markovic and the Balinovac are depoliticized. They are essentially and as politicized, we can say exactly who the party belongs to, which membership card it has, and I could tell you sometime, and what the number of membership cards of some of these ministerial assistants that are depolitized. There are some who have 3-4 membership cards, but that's another story, that's some other stuff. I am very glad that Mr. Martinovic showed very transparently how the number of employees in the state service moved. You saw for yourself that this increased several times compared to those black times in 2000. Who made it possible for the state administration to develop to this extent or, now, to be more precise, bureaucracy? So now in the classic sense, we have true bureaucracy, by definition and Lenin's and these other definitions, that's pure democracy. What's she got to do? To preserve the existing system of government, existing parties in power. How? By solving their material existence by working at the ministry, some have a relatively good salary, belong to a political party or options, and they advertise it everywhere. Well, of course, their wives, children, they all have to vote for the democratic bloc tomorrow, regardless of the appearance of a democratic bloc, on that fluid state. But we're told here, they're people in position, they're in position because they're very smart, because they're professionals, they're going to be five years old, so for five years there's a competition going on again. Why for five years? That when the minister changes, he doesn't go pro in a drawer. Oh, you're gonna get those pros in the drawer, people, you're gonna do great. What's a nice story is just nice, but with you in practice it's completely different. They're up to the bone of people who belong to these political options. It can be said exactly from the ministry to the ministry of which the party belongs to a civil servant in office. It belongs to the party where the minister who runs the ministry is or is involved in nepotism. This is again what Nusic so beautifully explained in his comedy and we are experiencing it today. When a minister comes along, it's known that he's being bullumented, because it's all experts, experts, they're being depoliticized. Just to remind you that you are paying attention to the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, so you will see how the redistribution of these experts has taken place. Where Mladjan Dinkic went, as some secretaries rushed. When it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, there are also elements to say that they are not politically defined, because they are defined only for this, it is known. Where's the money, there's Mladjan Dinkic. That's why they changed the budget concept, so you saw how much funding had to go to the ministry where Mladjan Dinkic moved. I have a legitimate right to criticise the whole concept of the Civil Service Act, and the entire SRS, because we warned you about this in 2005, when you said the same thing with a smile -- well, yeah, that's 126 votes, that's what we're going to say, etc., that's what we're going to apply. What happened on January 21st to the formation of this new government? All those former coalition partners, and probably the most high-ranking SPO, were left without senior professional ministerial assistants. Some of them could still stay at the Ministry, but provided they join, I know of a specific subject where they asked to be a member of G 17 plus, if he were a member of G 17 plus, then they could be working on article 179. However, today it is impossible, and that provision no longer exists, because it is July 3rd. On July 1st, everyone stopped acting, and they had to leave the ministry on Monday. Is that 380, as Mr. Markovic said, or is that a larger number, I'm not getting into it, some of them had to leave because they had nothing to do with the state service anymore, so they no longer have any touch points. Now, if you provide the retroactiveness of Article 2. The draft law that's on the agenda, then you say the following -- that a man's work book is closed, he can no longer be in that position. Just to draw your attention, Mr. Markovic, you're a young man, an expert in terrorism, you don't know these things. According to the previous Law, which you think is in force, and I say it is not in force, but in the variation of yours that it is in force, the Assistant Minister, when that function ceases, his working relationship with the ministry ends. I criticized that provision of the old law, so you keep an eye on me when you correct me, because I'm never going to tell you anything that's not true. And I felt it on my skin, because because of such a provision in the old law that regulates the employment of the state service, some people, whom I found at the Ministry of Trade, were extremely good personnel, had to be available for six months, and then they stopped working. And in 2005, I criticized among other things the old Law for that provision, and you also smiled and you always say it's not true. The DOS never said yes, what the radicals are saying is true. No, he's always saying, you didn't get it right, you're understated, you're making something up, you're running some social demagogue, all black. You used to say that we're primitively simple, although you don't mention it anymore, but it doesn't matter. So you never said -- radicals are right. It was enough to take a few months, so you'd get hit on the head by what we told you and you wouldn't learn a lesson again. You're still going crazy, you're still going crazy with this concept that's obviously wrong. He is so wrong that even MPs who support the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in co-habitation with Tadic, had to submit amendments to the bill, which is inconceivable. In such a concise government, which has a tense majority, it is simply impossible for an MP to submit an amendment without having previously agreed with the government. We now have a situation that MPs can no longer suffer this injustice, they cannot endure what their social environment objectes to, so they simply say - I must submit the amendment, because of their honor, for the sake of their conscience. You have the geometry case, just to remind you. You, if you adopt that, you have annulled the concept of the whole law. Just in time to tell you what might happen. I'm telling you in time because of the state, not because of the government, because I don't care what state it's going to be, whether it's going to be a philjan, whether there's going to be an institution or not. What you've done with the state administration, the state administration or the democratic bureaucracy is an absolute disaster. This kind of capillaries of government in the agencies, the regional authorities, not to mention everything you've called them, is catastrophic across the country. Here's your RRA. Those who raised their hands and feet for the Radio-Difusion Act are reporting, so they say, "It's no good." Why does the ex-post mind of you individually come to terms over two or three years? Why is that mind not present to you when the law is passed? Why don't you take a break and think about what's being put to you as an objection? Does it impote us if you adopt the amendment of the SRS? We don't care, but we care about the state. Until the amendment, let's draw your attention to what needs to be changed. In that sense, we are submitting amendments, even those that are most imaginative, "member is deleted." Those are the best amendments. You see, you at the DSS finally figured something out, but you infected these DS guys, they lost that condition, that euphoria, that speed, and now they've become uninformed, tromic, sleeping. Where they find themselves sleeping, when the state defends itself, and when very important matters are decided about the fate of the state. Here, I'm telling you now, if, by any chance, the bill was passed as proposed by the Government, you gave some deadlines by May 2008. Hypothetically, you're in power during that period. You won't be able to enforce this law again. Why? Because civil servants are in a position of eminent people who have direct touch points with politics, because it's impossible for them to be so professional that they have nothing to do with politics, because the minister will not propose it, the government will not choose it. The government staff committee sits down and says -- what kind of power is in parliament, we have 65, you have 50 and something, let's find some proportion. In these proportions, employment is also moving. You don't think they're political if you receive it from the Youth Initiative, if you receive it from this Sonja Licht, some of her organization or the one from Cesid. Deep politicism. Why? If nothing else, because they were receiving money from abroad to do destruction in the country and to do destruction. Your concept is ruined, your concept has become so obvious that it disgusts the citizens of Serbia because the consequences of your policy are bad. We've been telling you for six years what the consequences will be, you smile and say -- we have 126, we have support from abroad, we're favorites, that Valevski says -- leader in the Balkans, perspective of Europe, etc. When he runs out 11 million, the drp-system. That's what Serbian citizens can't take anymore. This morning I was looking at the data on the gross social product, as it's been moving since 2001. We're back to square one. Albania used to be in the Balkans with the worst data, and now it's ahead of us. You know, this story about democracy, about the benefits of democracy, about the democracy that brings rebirth, all the problems are a democratic issue, etc., according to the indicators that statistics follow these movements, it's a bad thing. So today we don't have those 300 and some people in position. If the interpretation of Mr Milan Markovic as Article 170(2) is that the regulation on the basis of which they are established is that of the regulation that has been put out of force and that it can still be applied, then they have stopped the working relationship. If my interpretation is that this law no longer exists since 1 July 2006, then I don't know their status. I don't know how you could set these people up, except for the ones you put in the contest, by political settlement. Then I draw your attention to those you've resolved, and they've had to be resolved by some regulation. You've cleared them by law that doesn't exist. I'm not complaining about their fate, because they're SPO people, maybe from New Serbia, maybe from some other parties that were in that government, I'm not complaining, but I'm talking about the principle of how you apply the law. You pass the law, you give him a big one for a year to prepare, etc., and nothing gets settled in that year. When it's five minutes before the end of the deadline, e bill, emergency procedure, retroactivity. We've learned that retroactivity is a normal phenomenon since DOS came to power. It used to be a real exception, so three times it was voted around one member, whether retroactive application of that member was allowed. I have requested before the Constitutional Court that the stenograms be delivered to the Constitutional Court when the constitutionality of a law is assessed, if the dispute is due to retroactiveness. Why? To be seen from the debate whether there were reasonable reasons, whether there was a general interest in retroactiveness. But where could you and Vučetic? He gets a warrant to do what needs to be done, pulls over his knee and finishes the job. He's an expert, too. Furthermore, it is said that earlier regulations that regulated the working relationship of state administration employees were burdened with politics, etc. Article 179, paragraph 2, to which Mr Markovic is called, contains this political connotation. When they are in power, it suits them, that political connotation suits them. Simply, democracy is an incredible fluid. The criterion for the quality of democracy is whether DS interests are met. If DS interests are fulfilled, it is European, modern. I forgot, there's my paper, to show the public how this state audit institution came to us. She came for a warrant from abroad. We have to build on that order another authority to control, to whom this State Auditing Institution will file a report. Just to remind you, Rade Obradovic pushed that law on the State Auditing Institution when there was no constitutional basis. With some changes, a few days ago, some constitutional basis reportedly came. When you look at papers, a warrant from abroad, and even in that warrant, you give examples of what it's like in England. So, those of you who take money from abroad, they're absolutely not interested in Serbia. They would like to reflect the state structure in Serbia with some state structure of one of the Western European states. Whether there are material assumptions about whether there's a need, what you get, they're absolutely not interested. They have something to register there, how much they have to pay Serbia, these are ours running for that money, they're cranky for money, as soon as they see the money they accept everything, just give it money. We are being installed in the legal system by foreign tissue, with which we at some point do not know what to do. You see for yourself, you make some institutions, that former president boasted that 280 laws were passed. Can we count on the fingers of one hand how many of these laws apply? How many of these laws we've had to change, delay application, and don't apply a day-to-day. Those who gave you money, of course, must submit some report to their taxpayers, find that, unfortunately, although they helped, gave money, Serbia passed regulations, these regulations do not apply. So these are able to deceive everyone, both Europe, Serbia and the whole world, only when it comes to money. I especially point this out because some people get angry when I say it's "drp-system". On any particular case, I can prove to you that it's a priority to get stoned, to steal, and of course, there's these guys from the media who say it's in line with European fluids. We will have a depoliticized state administration, as it is said here, as Mr. Balinovac announced in 2005, it will all be fine, but when you get to the counter you see that it is not depolitized, but politicized and rich in porters and upwards. It is said - by 2000 it had to be paid directly, and now it has to go from porter to director. Once for a building permit, the secretary was paid off and the job was done. Now from the porters, through the commissioner, everything has to be paid off in order to finish the job. It presents itself as a European standard. We in the Budget Law have provisions that regulate the working relationship of civil servants. You voted for the Budget Law. See what it says in Article 7 and Article 8. Article 6 refers directly to salaries of civil servants, and Article 8 of employment and the total number of civil servants in a particular state body. According to Article 8, if there is no personnel plan on the day of the budget, everyone has to split their knees and go to the finance minister to get consent in order to receive at least one employee they need, because this requires the need to do the job that is in the jurisdiction of a state authority. So you taught us that self-will is the greatest democratic fluid, and that laws serve for retroactivity. I'm asking you to remember this, because this is the definition of legality, which we've heard some have sworn, that it's the most important thing in their heart. You remember, Kostunica said to make institutions, to make institutions work, to make it all go its course. No institution works for you. Just to remind you of another manipulation with numbers of the total number of employees. You gave 258.500. I must warn you that you have thrown a large number of people out of the army here, that you are evicting from some other state bodies, and that the total number in these institutions is not reduced in mass, but that you are receiving your loved ones. Now I'm going to give you an example, an active military person going to his disposal for six months, and after that he gets a termination of a working relationship, an active military person, means an officer, and a man has come to his place by contract. So the ensign has to be expelled for transformation, and in his place comes a man by contract, who has no idea what a weapon is, etc. On another occasion, I will ask Mr. Delic to read to you about how some have modernised in our environment, about the same potential and size as Serbia, and how everything is destroyed with us; today they have reported that something is being destroyed, both people and material-technical resources. You don't care about the state. You want to dimensional her to be powerless by all attributes of sovereignty and independence. That's why we won't vote with a bill like this, and the day after that, we will specifically explain to you what these amendments mean. I think we have two amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4210	I thank my colleague Krasic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not yet exercised his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does the Minister, Mr Markovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4211	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this has been quite a quality discussion and I think we've mentioned a lot, and I think we've seen some weaknesses of existing legal solutions, and it's good that we've had this discussion and we could have concluded such elements. With all due respect to all those who spoke and made remarks, I would say a few things about what was heard in the afternoon discussion. It didn't all have much to do with this law, something did, something didn't, but the MPs asked me to answer. I'd just like to say a few things briefly. The issue of street names is being decided by the local self-government unit, the ministry only gives consent. Indeed, everything that has been done at the Ministry is exclusively in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, and the decision on that, both previous and final, is made by the local self-government unit. As for the term under which the Ministry will propose laws arising as obligations under the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Serbia, which are the condition for calling local elections, I would like to inform you that the ministry is ready and able to complete these laws by the end of September. When I was speaking at the press conference, I said that the deadline, in my opinion, was in the light of other obligations that could happen, that it was the deadline for these laws to be in front of the MPs in half of October. When the National Assembly adopts them, it depends on the dynamics of working in the National Assembly, but they can certainly be found until half of October in front of the MPs, and I think it will be sufficient time for these laws to be adopted afterwards. What is important, we need to understand that it is necessary to conduct a broad discussion on these laws, not only within the government, but primarily political parties, the expert public, etc., because local self-government laws will also apply to the fundamental change of local self-government, i.e. the level of decentralisation, then the formation of new cities, the law on territorialisation, the law on local elections and the electoral system, and I think it takes a lot to talk about it and to make an agreement on what it should look like. In a discussion about this law, some 300 people were constantly moving forward as a topic of fate. It is not about the fate of 300 people by name and last name, we are talking about people who have the law established a special responsibility to manage certain bodies, or to manage certain bodies within the ministry and according to this they have both special responsibilities and special responsibilities. In that sense, I'm saying that there's an interest in how it works uninterruptedly. I'm not talking about individuals. There are no individuals that matter, the important thing is that they are at the helm and they have certain responsibilities, so I read, if you remember, in the first part of the discussion, the provisions of Article 33. Law on civil servants. That's exactly where I'm trying to get an argument for the government's request to adopt a law like this. So it's not about the fate of these people, so don't let us banalize that thing, it's not about 300 whether or not they're going to get paid. It's said here, by chance, that the Minister's salary is not what it is. The minister's salary isn't that high, it's in the ranks of the vice president of the National Assembly. The fact is that the system and that's something that's been regulated by the Law on Salaries, not the subject of this law, something that's been regulated by the Law on Salaries and what we've discussed in the National Assembly, it seems to me that even in this term we've talked about when we started discussing the need to pass a law on the National Assembly, it's a completely abnormal, illogical thing that those people who call themselves tenants have salaries of 16 or 18 thousand dinars. We all agree here, and I expect the government to come out very quickly with changes to the pay law, because we all think it doesn't make any sense here, it's totally embarrassing in the end when you're aware that someone who spends all day with you can barely make ends meet. We understand each other, there's no dilemma here, and I've been driven by the same drivers as you and the same secretary, and I know all of that, as you know, and I agree completely with you, but it's not the subject of this law, it's nothing else. It is a return fact, my colleague spoke very well, we don't know each other, I forgot my last name, he also spoke very nicely about the feedback of the law. Thus, that position of Article 2 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides an opportunity for a feedback. The general interest should be established by the National Assembly. If you find that there is this general interest, then it can, and if you find it doesn't exist, then it can't. I urge you to keep in mind that provision of article 33. A law on civil servants, when you think about whether or not you will establish a general interest, which I think exists in terms of the functioning of the state. I think it was a lapus, when a colleague said that some new government should suffer the state secretaries of this government. The Secretary of State is in that domain of officials. They're political figures, they're not five years old. The Secretary of State is the Deputy Minister of the former. The Secretary of State is leaving with the minister, I'm talking about the assistant ministers as top officials, and they're the ones who stay and after they leave the political furniture. It combines political furniture and professional furniture. So, the intention of this law, as counterpart Baralic said, was high quality. It's a professionalization of civil servants and to get the political nomenclature to change and civil servants to stay. Do we decontamination in our lives, banalize it, it's from case to case, we're talking about something that's a general act, but it's a good opportunity to point out the problems that exist. But when we talk about something that's a general act and we talk about solutions to the general act, then we can absorb individual cases, but I say it's a good opportunity, and it's especially true for the opposition MPs to use it to point out these bad things and I like them to be heard in public. I agree that the State Secretary's name is a little inappropriate. That's what I said when I was an opposition MP, that's what I mean now. It's simply a mistake, it's supposed to be a deputy minister, I don't know why it's called the Secretary of State, but like you, I respect the law and I respect the terms of the law. It's the secretary of state now. Here was the question, Mr. Baralic, we said we would receive a gentleman from Gornji Milanovac, as we receive from the Ministry every president of the municipalities, but don't take advantage of one or another thing from this pay phone. We'll see, we'll talk, and we'll see what happens. You all know that, we have big problems in local self-government. It is obvious that the previous law has not been very much anticipated by possible relations with us in Serbia, and I think we will have to change that. In fact, the Constitution has already given an excellent solution, which is that the presidents of the municipalities are elected from the council. One of the colleagues mentioned that the law does not apply in autonomous provinces and in units of local self-government. That's right. Local self-government units and autonomous provinces are still subject to the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities, which is resolved by Article 189 of this law, and a new law should be passed. The new law is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is in the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Law. This National Assembly has passed such a Law on the Ministry. True, and she previously passed such a Law on the Ministry, I don't understand why the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government was so torn up, but I'm not able to change it in any way. The fact is, it's not all logical, it doesn't make any sense in whose jurisdiction it is. So it's completely illogical that the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government is not proposing this law, but now it's according to the Ministry Act. In any case, I agree that it is necessary to get to that law as soon as possible, because the position of people employed in autonomous provinces and local self-governments should be regulated, rather than the application of the Labour Relations Act in state bodies. Autonomous provinces and local self-government were mentioned. It's not the law that applies, it's the previous one. There's the same question over and over again. She says the government could have set it up, but she didn't set it up. Apparently, she didn't set up until February 14th, when the opportunity to set up expired. I don't need to defend why the government has not set up a previous one since February 14th, I'm here to tell you that the government has not set up, no appointments have been made, we are in a very awkward situation, and the only way out of this situation is to adopt the law that I am explaining to you here today on behalf of the Government. I can't agree, although I think there's plenty of room to talk about it, whether Article 180's position says work relations stop, then says duty stops, the termination of duty doesn't necessarily pull out of work, but if we open that topic, it's quite long. I agree, and I think we've generally opened up some issues of legal-technical character, which are due to a poor legal-technical editorial of the existing law. Some differences have remained, as a member of 179, but God's fight, we're experiencing things differently, we're interpreting some laws differently. I end up thanking you for this principle debate, waiting the day after tomorrow, I guess it's 24.00 hours to discuss the amendments, to discuss the proposed amendments, and then it's up to you to decide whether you'll pass the law. I'm glad Mr. Nikolic is enjoying himself like this, I knew he missed me, but I didn't know it was this much. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-03-0.u4212	I thank Minister Markovic. With this address, I conclude a principled search on the bill's proposal, and I remind you that in Article 140, paragraphs 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that at least 24.00 hours should pass from the completion of the principle search until the opening of the draft law in particular, as well as that amendments to the draft law may be submitted to the draft law in the time between the completion of the initial search and the opening of a search. Under the provision, the session will continue Thursday at 10.00 hours, by reviewing the draft law in particular. Thank you. Bon appétit.
